ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u1	Colleagues, as you know, the constraints of this Chamber force us to be physically present. I hope it won't cause too many complications. There are a large number of questions, as they do every time. I would remind you that we will stick to the rules we have set for speaking time. They don't appear on the screen, so sometimes I'll have to play the constable because it's important that the minister has time to respond and that you have time to reply. The rule is as follows – you may need to discuss it later – for questions, 8 minutes for major groups, 5 minutes after and 3 minutes for others; for replicas, 6 minutes, 4 minutes and 2 minutes. I give the floor to the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u2	Mr President, I would like to go into a few more questions. Can we have access to the open access data on the epidemiological models used to predict hospital admissions? There are three different models. Assuming they're already available in open access, where can we find them? Where do we find the model used to predict the number of recordings on intensive concerns? Where can we find the data per hospital, on which the Sciensano study on seroprevalence in health workers is based? Where do we find the study protocol? With regard to the Sciensano study on comorbidity, withdrawal duration and mortality, in short, the surveillance study of hospitals, can we receive the underlying hospital data? Is it being investigated in Belgium whether a single dose of a double vaccine can be sufficient in people who have already had an infection? A large study has recently been carried out on this subject, which shows that one dose may be sufficient. After all, there is a strong immune response after a single dose in people who have already been infected. Does the corona crisis also have an impact on the number of organ donations and transplants? This turned out to be the case in the spring. In the meantime, has the delay been overtaken or have the waiting lists become even longer? Will all hospitals that can and can do so be able to sequence SARS-CoV-2 samples, or is that only for the federal testing platform's university labs? Has an evaluation of the Coronalert app been planned or done? I have a strong impression it's underutilized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by talking about the sanitary pandemic law that you are preparing. It can also be found on the European Commission's website. What's the status of the interkabinette meeting? What timing will you use? I read that the draft law would be put to the vote in March. Is that right or not? When will you submit this bill to the Chamber? I would also like to go into more detail about vaccinations and the identification of the groups at risk. We were talking about this last week. The doctors have indicated that it will be very difficult to correctly and in accordance with medical law to tell which patients belong to the risk groups or not. How do you feel about that? I have heard that there are also slopes to drop those risk groups and work by age group. Is that right or is that wrong? With regard to the vaccination rate, 70% should be vaccinated to obtain group immunity. We hear a lot of people have doubts about being vaccinated. Do you also have a piste ready in which you will involve the doctors and pharmacists to increase the vaccination rate and help raise awareness? Mr Minister, my next question concerns the delivery of the Moderna vaccine. I've heard that problems are expected. Are you aware of that? Can you guarantee that everything is on schedule? Are you expecting trouble? The AstraZeneca vaccine would not adequately protect against the South African variant. That is not really a big problem in itself, because the frequency of that variant is not that big for us. It is said that a third shot would be needed, adapted to that South African variant. Is that a piste being followed? Another slope is to give a combination of two different vaccines. What about that? Then I also had a question about the tests of Coris BioConcept. In response to a written question, we heard that 32.798 tests by Coris BioConcept have currently been reimbursed for an amount of 550,000 euros. On April 2, 2020, we read that the FAGG would have placed an order of 350,000 tests by Coris BioConcept. In committee COOVID-19 I asked where these tests are. I didn't really get a clear answer to that. Can you clarify some of this? Did the FAGG order those tests or are those the hospitals? Can you also tell me how the FAGG has played a role in the CE certification of the tests? I assume these tests are still being used today. Are they incorporated into the test strategy? We would also have liked to know the differences by region. The details of this can be found in the text. Where are the tests most refunded and where not? Then I would have liked to talk to you about the combination of bamlanivimab and etesevimb. The American company Eli Lilly indicates that he has very good studies on this: 70% of hospitalizations and deaths would fall. Have there been studies going on in our parts? Did you know about that? The United Kingdom has ordered 50 million of CureVac vaccines. The European Commission also has a pre-contract with the company. Have these vaccines been ordered yet? We also have very little scientific data on it. Can you share it with us? For the rest of the questions on the strategic stock, please refer to the questions that have been put. I assume you'll answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u4	Mrs Depoorter, you did quite well in this difficult eight-minute exercise. So I count on everyone to do the same. On the other hand, I would like to apologize to Mrs H annoyance, who had to face a train problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Hennuy has not been affected by a problem with the train. We're gonna have to pass that on to the minister. Minister, I have two questions for you. My first question concerns the vaccination of Belgians abroad and vice versa. What about Belgians outside the EU? What rhythm will they be vaccinated at? How will they be informed? Is there cooperation at European level to vaccinate Europeans who do not live in their home country at the rhythm of their home country? Or are they vaccinated on the rhythm of the country where they live? How does it go the other way for non-European expats staying in Belgium? Will they be included in our vaccination strategy? What's the deal with that, exactly? A second question is about long covid. We come back to this every round of questions, because we hear from patients that they forgot for a long time. We read that a directive has been drawn up in the United Kingdom which is constantly updated with available information on the long-term health effects of COOVID-19. The document contains recommendations for professionals on how to deal with health effects. The directive is therefore constantly being supplemented by new information. It ensures that caregivers get the right information in real time. I know that we will have a hearing soon and that many questions will come to your attention, but will you roll out an initiative like that in the UK in Belgium, so that our professionals are also immediately informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u6	Mr Minister, first of all, according to a recent poll conducted by Test Achats, less than one in three Belgians consider themselves well or very well informed about vaccination. In particular, it is about side effects and the process of vaccine development and authorization that respondents report a lack of information and transparency. According to the same survey, two in ten Belgians do not want to be vaccinated, while one in ten Belgians is undecided. Finally, 12% of respondents say they do not want to be vaccinated, even if the vaccine is mandatory. This means that mistrust of the vaccine persists. Mr Minister, Test Achats calls for more transparency on the part of the authorities. What do you think? Does the government intend to adapt its communication and inform the public as best as possible, with a view to increasing the confidence of citizens? Finally, do you fear that the vaccination target of 70% of the population will not be met? If so, what are you considering? Is it your intention to make the vaccine compulsory? Let me turn to my second question, Minister. According to an analysis of ongoing clinical trials of the AstraZeneca vaccine, the AstraZeneca vaccine – in addition to protecting against the disease – would reduce the transmission of the virus. This note of hope allows some experts to believe that if these vaccines reduce the transmission of the virus as announced, health measures could be relaxed earlier than expected. Minister, are these results for reducing the transmission of the virus proven? Do we know whether this transmission reduction is also valid in the face of the different variants? What about other vaccines? Do we know if these also reduce the transmission of the virus? If there is evidence that transmission is effectively reduced through the vaccine, do you think that early relaxation of health measures would be feasible? Finally, Minister, this is my third question. A few days ago, a British medical scientific journal published the preliminary results of a phase 3 clinical trial of the Russian vaccine, commonly known as "Spoutnik". This interim analysis of the Phase 3 trial was conducted on more than 20,000 participants and suggests that the efficacy of the Russian vaccine would reach more than 91%. A sub-analysis from a sample of 2,000 people over the age of 60 also suggests that the vaccine would be effective in this age group, but this remains to be confirmed. Minister, what other information do you have about the Russian vaccine? Do you confirm that it is effective in people over 60 years of age? What is the current status of discussions between the European Medicines Agency and Russian scientists? Have they applied for marketing authorisation? Could Russian vaccine doses be delivered to us? If so, on what date? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u7	Mr Minister, as far as vaccination is concerned, Belgium is in the process of embarking on a real strategy. After the vulnerable, healthcare workers are now finally benefiting from this important vaccination. What about the other priority groups and certainly the front-line functions, be they police forces, relief zones, civil protection? As such, I read yesterday that Commissioner General De Mesmaeker was referring to a vaccination of the order of 6,000 to 8,000 police officers, knowing that this is the police of first intervention. This number represents only a small proportion of the police. However, a police hotel is a bit like a hospital: a real bubble that must be protected by all the members. Do you also have a broader approach for the police and what timing? Also with regard to vaccination, we met in the Special Commission covid, the representatives of the medical assistants candidates specialists. What are the recommendations in terms of vaccination of these people at this level? How can we explain the situation they have described and where they are at the front but do not always have access to vaccination in their hospitals, when administrative staff have already been able to benefit from it? How can we avoid this really incomprehensible situation in the future and meet their expectations of being protected on the ground? The people we also need to protect are the undocumented. We met with Unia last Wednesday as part of the covid report. Unia told us about her difficulty in accessing information and vaccination. In Belgium, the only persons who do not have access to information on covid-19, tests and care, are those who do not have a national number or number, i.e. homeless persons and migrants. No number, no test! That is the reality today. How can these people be tested? Practically, how can health information be improved for this target audience living outside or hidden, not speaking our language and not having access to any integrated system? Here are the questions I wanted to ask you. For the others, as I indicated, I refer to the questions tabled. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u8	Mr President, my question No. 55013900C about the Russian vaccine Sputnik V I would like to highlight. V turns out to be a vaccine, not a Roman five. The Russian ambassador in our country stated that Russia was willing to deliver the vaccine to our country. Many countries, including some EU Member States such as France, Germany and Spain, have taken up the offer or are at least interested in purchasing that vaccine. A study published in The Lancet cited an effectiveness of 91.6%. Minister, is our country considering engaging with Russia in the purchase of the Russian vaccine when it appears to comply with European standards? Will our country establish individual contacts or call on the European Union if necessary, taking into account the fact that individual Member States have already made contact? What political or non-political objections are there to such contacts? Do you believe that any delivery of the Russian vaccine could increase the pressure on other suppliers to fulfil their obligations? What influence does he think that will have or will not have? Debates of the European Parliament I would also like to quote 55013930C. This is a question about the vaccination of the care staff that I have asked a number of times, but which is still waiting fruitless for an answer. Today, it appears that a significant proportion of healthcare providers are at least in doubt about whether or not to be vaccinated. That is why I would like to make a polite request for an answer to the question. Will you add the vaccination against COVID-19 to the list of mandatory vaccinations for the care staff? I refer to the Royal Decree of 28 April 2017. What additional initiatives do you intend to take to maximize the vaccination readiness of the care staff? Is it an option for you to deny healthcare personnel who do not want to be vaccinated or choose not to be vaccinated, access to certain departments of hospitals, as is suggested in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u9	Mr President, I would like to clarify my question on the use of the CO2 meter in the fight against corona. My question is not just about implementing it in schools, workspaces, meeting rooms and so on, but also in churches, cultural temples, cinemas and possibly the catering industry, so as to create a faster perspective for this sector. My question No. 55013218C is about antibody treatment and the EXO-CD24 clinical trial from Israel. There a cancer medicine would produce reasonably good results in the treatment of COVID-19. Where do we stand on that? Can Belgium participate in clinical trials? Do we also support development and research in relation to the treatment of covid? I would like to clarify two other questions. There were alarming reports in De Morgen and Het Nieuwsblad, among others from microbiologist Herman Goossens, as if we were already in a third wave. The increase is observed in general practitioners, triage centres and hospitals. However, Sciensano's figures did not show this. The Antwerp governor also said that the numbers are much worse than we are told. Minister, what figures do these people base themselves on? Are those numbers different from the ones we see at Sciensano? If new variants are detected less quickly, is there anything wrong with our testing strategy? The current measures are very strict. Then how come we're gonna end up in a third wave after all? I also have a question concerning the debate on vaccination. It appears that that discussion continued on 2 January 2021 at the initiative of Sciensano. There were 103 guests who discussed the vaccination strategy with the help of experts. There were many questions and comments, but they were not all answered. You promised the guests to answer them in writing, as we often hear in committee. But unfortunately, these people are still waiting for an answer. Why haven't you answered their questions yet? On whose initiative did Sciensano organize this debate? Why is that so little publicity given to it? Why was the debate held with 103 people? On what criteria were they chosen? What do you do with the arguments of the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my question No 55013875C, which deals with the vaccination of people at risk. It is planned to start vaccination of people over the age of 65 at the end of March, if I understand correctly, and to involve younger people who have pathologies that make them particularly vulnerable to covid-19 infection. As easy as it is to summon people according to their age, it is easy to summon people on the basis of their professional activity, as much as it seems to me a bit complicated to summon people according to their pathologies. I understand that mutual organizations could be used to identify and summon the persons concerned. An article on the issue was published this morning in the newspaper L'Echo. I confess, it makes me feel a little cold in my back. I understand the identification technique of cross-checking data, using some algorithms, as Google does to precede our desires. It can be imagined that by overlapping the medical prescriptions for patients in recent months or years, by overlapping the complementary examination requirements for these patients, we can define exactly what the patients are suffering from, and from there a list of people with certain pathologies is transmitted to public administrations in charge of summons. We are typically part of an Orwellian drift and we are creating a precedent that seems totally unacceptable to me. Minister, in my view, three imperatives must be respected: respect for medical confidentiality, the protection of privacy and the voluntary nature of vaccination. A general convocation of all the persons concerned cannot be made because it is considered that, on the basis of their pathologies, they must necessarily be vaccinated and they have no choice. In order to respect the above-mentioned imperatives, the place of the general practitioner is, for me, inescapable. Of course, this is not easy because it is undoubtedly an additional administrative task for the doctor. It is therefore not as simple as one might think at first glance. Only the general practitioner is able to judge whether the patient meets the conditions for vaccination if he or she wishes to be vaccinated. From that point on, he can put the patient, if he or she has given his or her consent, on a list for vaccination. I'm told some patients don't have a general practitioner. That's one more reason for them to take one. This would be done with one stone and two strokes. The overall health of the population would be improved; indeed, I believe that the fact that part of the population still does not have a general practitioner is rather a handicap for the overall level of public health in this country. In my view, this process needs to be reviewed in a very strict manner in relation to individual rights and freedoms. This epidemic cannot create a precedent that could be replicated later for other uses and for other purposes. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this fact. Other formulae may exist to avoid the problem, such as convoking essentially on the basis of age. We could first summon the older ones, those over the age of 75, for example. They are those who have a relatively high rate of hospitalization and are involved in hospital overload today. We could then gradually go down to the age of 50 at any rate. For those below this 50-year-old barrier, a protocol can be established with general practitioners to verify and summon patients who wish to do so based on the pathologies they present simply because the general practitioner would have attested that they are in the conditions to receive the vaccine. We really need to pay attention to this issue. I don't think I'm the only one who cares. Probably many parliamentarians would not be able to accept that in this process of identification and convocation, fundamental principles of privacy and individual freedom are being betrayed. I would like to pay your attention, Minister, to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u11	Mrs Taquin, I give you the floor, but I am embarrassed. Indeed, I must ask you to refer to your written questions, since Mr Bacquelaine used all or more of your group's speaking time. You're a group of two elected. Your speaking time is therefore five minutes. However, as I have done with other groups and to respect the balance between the groups, I will give you a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will go right to the point. I refer to my question No 55013722C on vaccination planning. My colleague Daniel Bacquelaine has already touched on some very important points in this regard. My questions relate to the study carried out by the University of Mons (UMons) on persons already carrying antibodies and to the definition of so-called "at-risk" professions. For several months already, even before the vaccinations arrived, the question has arisen of testing those who have antibodies and have therefore already been infected. Recently, however, a Umons study has produced results that do not call for this direction, but rather indicate that patients who have been diagnosed with mild or moderate coronaviruses are not protected from a new infection. Nearly 30% of all people studied no longer had antibodies two months after infection. Minister, has this issue been analyzed by the Interdepartmental Conference on the Prioritization of Target Audiences for Immunization? What is the opinion of the experts on the subject? Secondly, with regard to the definition of jobs at risk, I read: "At-risk jobs are jobs directly confronted with a situation in the field that prevents them from keeping a physical distance and keeping protective equipment." I do not understand and am shocked that teachers cannot be taken back into jobs at risk, as do some police personnel. I would like clarification in this regard. Finally, what progress has been made in working with the Communities on mass rapid tests in schools? How will this campaign be organised and who will finance it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u13	Thank you for the exercise, Mrs. Taquin. I repeat, it is important that the balance between the groups be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u14	Minister, I will try to refer to my questions as well as possible and be as concise as possible. I have a question about the one-off vaccination study on previous immunity and the effectiveness of the vaccines at that time. With regard to export restrictions on the corona vaccine and European solidarity, which we would like to maintain, can you tell us what has been decided at European level with regard to the fight against vaccineism? Then I have a question about the vaccination barometer. I have raised many questions about the COOVID-19 report by Unia and the vulnerable groups, but in view of the limited speaking time for my group, I refer to my written question. How will Belgium respond to the Russian vaccine and the results in the magazine The Lancet on its effectiveness? Is Belgium also planning to buy that vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u15	Minister, my first question concerns hospital bills for the covid. The Sud Presse group yesterday recounted the story of Michel de Charleroi, who was hospitalized during the first wave: 25 days of intubation and a passage into intensive care. He received different invoices from St. Joseph's Hospital in Charleroi for more than 2,000 euros. He even received notices with an additional fee. This led Michel to borrow from his bank. In addition, the amount exceeding its limit for the maximum amount to be billed is not refunded until after this episode. This story shocked me. Minister, do you find it normal for us to send notices, requests for interest and bailiffs to people who find it difficult to pay their bills? Are you going to act against that? Are you considering a reform of the maximum amount to be billed so that patients no longer have to advance substantial amounts and wait months before being reimbursed? When you have hospital insurance – which was not the case with Michel – you don't even see the bill. All this is settled between the hospital and your insurer. Are you going to take action because the costs of covid-19 hospitalizations can be very important? Here, Michel had to pay nearly 600 euros from his pocket for this disease that fell on him. This can affect many people. Another question is how to invite high-risk patients between the ages of 45 and 65. In the last few days, I have been arrested by a lot of patients who belong to the risk group and were wondering how they would be contacted. I cannot answer them to this day. How, for example, are we going to find an obese person who is not taking any medication? How will it be identified in mutual fund lists? In addition, I read in the Doctor's Journal that patients who do not have a general practitioner were advised to quickly find one so that they could be vaccinated. It's an information that was published yesterday in The Journal of the Doctor. I think it's impossible for people who don't have a comprehensive medical record to be excluded from vaccination or later. My last question concerns the costs of distributing vaccines. Today, there is a contract with Medista NV. You said a new call for tenders will be made for four years. I would like to know what the total costs of distributing the various vaccines are for the government, the ones already granted and the ones planned. What is taken care of by the firm itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, the current strategy for fighting must really be to track down and curb the spread of variants, and to vaccinate faster than the exponential dynamics of mutants. Several elements. Firstly, on indicators, do you not think it is extremely important to have a much more accurate follow-up of mutant indicators with publication, both for the British mutant and for South Africa? The latest information from Austria must particularly challenge us. Then, on the strategy of testing, tracing, isolating, is there or not a particular strategy for variants that are much more contagious and that would respond less to certain vaccines, in any case for the South African variant? For schools and non-telework enterprises, when are we finally going to do a regular test of teachers, students and workers? When are we going to make CO2 sensors available to push for proper ventilation, especially in schools for old buildings? When are we going to isolate more intensively when a student is positive to a variant? Today we are in a formula that is too light, whereas that is where the risk is highest. What about the evolution of systematic testing in nursing homes? What about the evolution of serology in Belgium? Is the tracing finally more intensive? On the issue of vaccination, I would like to ask you a number of questions. First, on the availability of the vaccine. When will we have transparency on the theoretical delivery schedule for vaccines? The other Member States of the European Union are transparent. We still have nothing to do with it. What about the importance of ordering the Sputnik V vaccine? EMA has not yet given its answer. At the same time, many other Member States are ordering the Sputnik V vaccine. The Lancet study shows very positive results. If we wait, we may not get anything, even though there are many questions about the effectiveness of the AstraZeneca vaccine on the South African variant. With regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine, you have decided to reserve it for those under the age of 55. EMA had not given an age. Other Member States preferred the 65-year option. What schedule will be followed for vaccination of those over 65 years of age? When will it begin? What about MACS vaccination? Will they be considered as caregivers, whether in an intra- or extra-hospital setting? What about teacher vaccination? The Interdepartmental Health Conference decided not to include them in the priorities. Can you justify it here? What about immunization of pregnant women based on new data from studies published in the United States? As far as the organization is concerned, I would stress the importance of putting much more emphasis on general practitioners, but also on specialists in chronic patients. I am thinking, in particular, of dialysis patients, hospitalized haemodialysis patients. We could vaccinate them in two days. The invitation of people at risk by mutuals seems totally unacceptable to me. This completely violates medical secrecy. How, on the other hand, would they be listed? Together with my colleague Josy Arens, I would like to hear from you about cross-border workers. Will they be able to be vaccinated in the country where they work, whether in Belgium or in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u17	Mr President, in view of the current situation, I will update some of my questions, in particular, and my colleagues have mentioned this, that of vaccination of patients at risk. It is estimated that there would be a million and a half of them involved. This is a grey figure, because next to the patients followed by a general practitioner on a regular basis, there are the others: those who do not have an overall medical record (+/-42% in Brussels) and those who do not even know about their disease. The press referred to an agreement in principle with mutual aid on the basis of invoices for medical acts or medicines, except that, to date, mutualities have not received any instructions in this regard. Minister, can you tell us how the list of patients involved will be established, in accordance with the GDPR? It's fundamental. A document from Commissioner Corona also plans to finalize, by Monday, 15 February 2021, an efficient central computer system to be able to send invitations to be vaccinated. Where are we today? Is this 1.5 million people? Will doses be available for all vaccinations, especially given the recent unknowns surrounding the effectiveness of the AstraZeneca vaccine? If not, will there be a priority among these patients? How do you intend to support general practitioners who are besieged with requests for consultation and information? I also come back to the situation in schools. The vice-rector of ULg explained that vaccination would in particular increase the frequency of mutations of the virus until it finally finds a variant that can escape vaccination protection, making it even more necessary to be able to detect both the virus and the various variants. This is why the Ulg decided to carry out rapid tests both at university level and in various nursing homes. Minister, do you therefore intend to generalize rapid tests, particularly in schools, for both teachers and students? Teachers are furious, rightly, that they have not seen their vaccination progress, while the opinion of the Higher Council of Health recognized them as an increased risk function. Meanwhile, Minister Linard's office in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation had suggested that the debate on the subject was not closed and that it would depend mainly on the number of doses available. Therefore, what can be hoped for in relation to this and in relation to the number of doses? Do you consider that being a teacher is not a critical function in terms of the risks taken every day in the face of the virus? Teachers ask for either a back-pedaling or a clear perspective on their priority vaccination. What do you say to them today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u18	Thank you all for your respect for timing. I give the floor to the minister, and I do not imagine that he will not do as well as we do to provide illuminating answers in accordance with the time allotted to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u19	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mrs Rohonyi's questions about the reopening of contact jobs. As you know, the Consultation Committee considered that a step-by-step approach to the reopening of non-medical contact professions was appropriate for reasons of caution and in order to be able to assess the epidemiological impact of reopening. You are also aware that the Committee reiterated the importance of some additional conditions laid down for this reopening by the Codeco of 22 January. I do not think it would be useful to provide you with all the details of the agreed protocol, particularly for hairdressers. Having said that, it was important, in our view, to have a protocol which required, on the one hand, caution and, on the other hand, some realism in the management of this profession. A discussion was held on the usefulness of periodic screening of certain populations, based on an opinion of the Risk Assessment Group (RAG). The operationalization of screening is repeated in contact occupations. This screening must start from scratch and can take a long time, so that the Consultation Committee has invited all relevant federations and sectoral organizations to develop proposals for periodic screening. To do so, they will be able to call on Covid-19 to coordinate initiatives in this area. Quite a few questions have been asked about the virus variants. I can say the following about this. It is true that a number of places are being investigated as to the sickening potential of the so-called British variant. There are some very early, very preliminary signals from the United Kingdom that there might be a slightly increased severity of the disease caused by that British variant, but those findings are based on only 20% of patients and should be seen in a context in which the British hospital system is inundated. The first concern in Britain, and particularly in England, is of course to treat patients. Very much statistical processing will only come afterwards, but these data also reach us and of course scientists are in very close contact with each other internationally. There are regular weekly meetings moderated by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). It is important that the existing preventive measures and rules continue to apply, including to the variants of the virus, and that the variants of the virus do not cause us to argue differently about the thresholds for what we consider to be a safe situation. If we know that these variants are circulating, it is of course important to be ready to intervene quickly, if necessary, in the event of a sudden flare-up of the epidemic or a sudden deterioration of the situation. I'll come back to the starting point. Even if it is not the case that a particular variant leads to a more serious disease, but if that variant is more contagious, then of course there will be more seriously ill people. As far as infectious diseases are concerned, there are several studies and estimates. They range from 30% more contagious for the British variant to 70%, for some very pessimistic estimates. The studies that currently pay the most are the studies that indicate a higher infection, between 30% and 50%, than the classic variant. It is estimated that infection in the UK is based on the so-called secondary attack rates, the number of high risk contacts that test positive after contact with an original versus a variant virus strain. I continue to stress that the essential thing is that we respect the rules we have agreed on correctly. It comes down to the higher infectiousness of those variants simply not giving a chance. There has also been talk of the South African variant. It has so far been identified about a hundred times in Belgium. Most of the cases in which the South African variant was identified were detected during targeted cluster research, with particular attention being paid, for example, to a relationship with travellers. In baseline surveillance, the South African variant has actually only been identified once. This means that it is currently a very limited circulation. A certain estimate suggests that the South African variant currently accounts for less than 1% of the number of infections. In response to several questions, I would like to say the following. In preparation for the new meeting of the Consultation Committee on 26 February 2021, we asked the Commission to carry out a very thorough examination of the extent to which the deployment of the vaccination campaign would allow us to return to normal life, the freedoms associated with it and what we all long for. The key to the planning of our policies for the coming weeks and months will be the answer to the next question. To what extent can we vaccinate and what are the consequences of a successful vaccination campaign for the ability to return to normal life? It is also not insignificant how we can develop our testing strategy. We test when we detect symptoms, when people have had high-risk contacts, when we see outbreaks, when we think there's cause for concern in a particular neighborhood. We are also going to carry out screening tests, such as saliva testing for educational staff, tests that are taken voluntarily at residential care centres that find that useful for people visiting. In the meantime, we have a very wide test capacity that we can use for a very ambitious test strategy. As far as I am concerned, the question is: to what extent will the success of the vaccination campaign, together with a sustained and expansive testing policy, enable us to implement certain relaxations, and when will that happen? Sequencing is also important in relation to those variants, and the ECDC advises Member States to carry out sufficiently large-scale samples for the detection of variants. It takes genome analysis. This is a discipline that is very different from conducting PCR tests. The laboratory capacity available to perform PCR tests cannot simply be converted into capacity for sequencing. This requires other expertise and material. Even the specific marker PCR, which searches for specific mutations, e.g. mutations with the so-called S gene dropout patterns, cannot be performed in all laboratories currently carrying out PCR tests. This marker PCR requires more manual work and more technical expertise. Genome analyses are subject to specific quality requirements. There should be a willingness to align with the national reference centre on the number and indications of the samples to be analysed, the data should be uploaded and sent in a timely manner and a joint reporting and data analysis should be undertaken. Cooperation between non-university and university laboratories is possible in this context, but this cooperation must, of course, meet these conditions. I'll come back later on to questions about labs. Mrs Gijbels, the epidemiological models used to make short-term predictions for hospitalisation are carried out via early indicators. The early indicators used in the Sciensano model are, firstly, the symptoms reported through the e-forms; secondly, the incidence in the residential care centres; thirdly, the age-specific positivity ratio; and finally, a number of autoregressive elements. Not only the prediction for hospitalisations, but also the capacity utilisation of the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is estimated via this model at Sciensano. You can get the code for that Sciensano model from them. She hasn't been published yet. With regard to testing and tracing, there is a lot of attention at the moment to clusters in schools. As part of the testing strategy currently being carried out, we allow whole groups to be tested in one motion. We also know that when we test asymptomatic people, we'll find additional cases. In addition to a context of high risk contact or symptoms, these results are not always easy to interpret. If we look at the figures in schools, it can be said that the situation was better than the situation before Christmas. The 14-day incidence of infections among 0- to 9-year-olds and 10- to 19-year-olds is also still lower than in 20- to 29-year-olds. However, we know only too well that we must remain careful. This is also the reason why it was advised not to ban children's extracurricular activities, but to impose a number of rules to minimise infections in extracurricular activities. In the meantime, the competent authorities in the Communities have accepted and apply these rules. The current test strategy means that one can decide locally to test more widely. That decision shall be made on the basis of risk analysis and the advice of the regional health inspection, in consultation with the local authorities. Before deciding such a thing, different aspects need to be looked at. The local epidemiological situation is, of course, the starting point, but I believe that this type of targeted broad testing is a very important tool to control the epidemic. Among other things, Mrs Depoorter had questions about specific types of tests. According to the information from my administration, the federal government has not purchased any tests from the company Coris BioConcept. The question of the proportion and number of refundable tests per region or per province is also difficult to answer within the context of an oral question. I hope you can understand that. If that's what you want, I suggest that I have that examined further and that I provide you with the information in writing. Some hospitals have purchased tests directly from Coris BioConcept, according to price agreements between that company and the hospital in question. The conformity of SARS-CoV-2 antigen tests shall not be verified by a notified body but shall be declared by the manufacturer in a declaration of conformity. Thereafter, the manufacturer shall affix the CE marking. Only after the entry into force of the Regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices of 26 May 2022 will a notified body be required to check such tests. The role of the FAGG is to carry out market surveillance. The FAGG does not play any role in issuing certificates of conformity or CE certificates, as that is respectively the responsibility of the manufacturer and the notified body. Nose wipers are class 1 medical devices and must comply with European Directive 93/42, more specifically Annex 1 to that Directive, which lists essential requirements for Class 1 medical devices. Wizards may also follow the new European Regulation 745/2017 on medical devices, more specifically the Annex 1, 'General safety and performance requirements'. The manufacturer shall be responsible for carrying out the necessary tests to demonstrate the conformity of his medical devices. As far as travellers are concerned, we still have a relatively good position at the moment. With all caution and with no arrogance on our part, I can say that, in comparison with many European countries, we have a stable position, although stable means fragile for a piece too. The level of contagion and hospitalisation is a relatively stable position which is not unfavourable to some other countries. This means, of course, that we must ensure that we do not import contaminations from countries where there are more infections, especially variants that we do not like to see here. For example, we would like to try to keep the British and South African variants that have just been discussed here as far as possible. A lot of data can be found on the ECDC website, to which I refer. Data on returning travellers show that the positivity ratio of tested returning travellers is on average around 3.5 % to 5 %. Those are not insignificant figures. After all, in the week from 27 December to 2 January, this positivity was equivalent to about 2,700 additional infections introduced in Belgium. Quick tests are certainly suitable for detecting people who are highly contagious. For people with complaints in the first five days the sensitivity is very good, there are few false negative results. So we still recommend quick tests especially for these indications. In people without symptoms the sensitivity is lower and one cannot easily rule out infection in a negative test. That's why we don't use quick tests on returning travellers. However, there are other contexts in which one can do so. I think you know the most important elements of this policy. Overall, there is a good picture of the proportion of covidpositive persons among returning travellers by country and by region. We have also mapped the link with variants through samples among travellers. This confirms the information provided by health institutions from, for example, the UK, where there is a strong presence of the British variant. The number of returning travellers and the number of positive samples per country are relatively small, which means that one cannot easily get a reliable picture of the distribution of covid variants within those countries and regions based on what we find among returning travellers. What we do see, of course, is that these variants are not limited to one or a few countries. With regard to the funding of the labs, there is currently a proposal to create the possibility for all clinical labs to carry out the tests that allow the detection of the so-called variants or group, the VOC, by an additional PCR test on positive samples after an initial generic PCR test. This is, of course, specifically aimed at returning travellers from high-risk areas. In addition, according to the adapted testing strategy, the Federal Platform laboratories will be used preferentially for the outbreak analyses and large-scale screenings. They will be able to perform additional reflex PCR tests and genome sequencing to detect mutations and variants of the virus in these target groups. The reflex PCR test can detect certain variants relatively quickly and easily, while the genome sequencing detects the complete genomic variation, as well as the regional distribution of variants. Additional investigations through the federal platform are ongoing and funding is foreseen for this purpose. Access to specific PCR tests for private clinical labs is still under discussion. We will soon communicate to the labs the information on the new benefits that we make refundable and the corresponding reimbursement conditions, which can be carried out through all clinical labs. We will also endorse these provisions in the implementing decisions of the upcoming Corona Act, where necessary. This is the subject of further discussion and consultation, including on the rates of these new benefits. So that does not allow me to say anything about the budgetary impact. In terms of tracing, I would remind you that a positive result is sufficient for the start-up of a contact search. For this, the results of sequencing are not awaited. In any event, persons with a positive test must go into isolation and report their high risk contacts. If you do this very punctually and well, you are armed against more infectious variants. Regional health services play a key role in cluster research. They combine the signals and information they receive from various sources and monitor clusters. The combined data from Sciensano give an indication of the sources of contamination. The contact centre also conducts research on possible sources of contamination. This works well and together these approaches provide useful information on sources of contamination. The most important thing is to continue on this path. I believe it. For Coronalert, the main measure of success to date is the adoption rate, the number of people who installed the app, today 2.4 million. Since the app only uses anonymous data, it is difficult to know what the effective use of the app is. This can't be easily monitored. However, the number of test results delivered in the app is monitored, as is the proportion of positive test results and the number of citizens sharing a positive test result. Those figures are publicly available through the website. There are currently no detailed figures available on how many people have reported in the app as a reason to have a test taken. Users cannot enter their test results in the app themselves. However, they may specify the one-off identification code of the app when preparing their covidtest instructions or add them to them via a web form so that they can receive their test results within Coronalert. The figures on how many people do this are also available via the website. For the vaccination strategy, first and foremost, general practitioners are involved at inter-federal level in the social dialogue and communication unit and help to combat mistrust of covid vaccination. They are also involved in the task force's task force on the invitation of risk groups. However, I would like to stress that, if very close inter-federal cooperation is organised through the Corona police station and the Vaccination Task Force, and if decisions are taken at the Ministerial Conference and in the presence of all the competent public health ministers of which I am a member, the invitation, the practical implementation of vaccination on the ground and the development of vaccination centres are the responsibility of the Regions. I do not take these words to hide behind them, since there is inter-federal cooperation. I am therefore going through the decisions that have been taken by approving them. I know that there are some concerns about this. However, this is a question of a debate to be held at the regional level. Maintenance staff in hospitals, both in the covid departments and elsewhere, are vaccinated at the same time as the other hospital staff. There's a phase plan for that that's been followed since this month. Vaccination is not systematically recommended for pregnant women. Women who wish to become pregnant may be vaccinated, but it is recommended to postpone pregnancy until after the second vaccination. Vaccination can be considered in pregnancy if someone is at higher risk of being infected with the corona virus, for example women working in the healthcare sector, or if you are at higher risk of having a serious form of COOVID-19 due to certain underlying conditions. For women who become pregnant after the first vaccination and who are not in any of the previous situations, the second dose will be administered depending on their specific situation. Information on the website info-coronavirus.be is available in 40 different languages. The invitation for vaccination is available in 25 languages. Based on the experience of the first few weeks, it has been estimated that 2% of vaccines are lost, which is similar to what is found abroad. So far, there haven't been any damaged bottles during transports. The loss is mainly due to damage caused by manipulation of bottles or bottles of a different colour, which one prefers not to use and so on. It is, of course, not recommended to recover remnants of a vaccine from a broken vial. The EEA allows six doses per unit. Taking seven doses out of a unit is therefore not good. Then I come to the sensitive issue of the groups at risk. On 3 February, it communicated which diseases belong to the groups at risk. The decision taken at the Inter-Ministerial Conference is based on an opinion of the High Health Council. The first ones to be vaccinated are those between 45 and 64 years old with chronic respiratory diseases, chronic cardiovascular diseases, obesity, diabetes, chronic neurological diseases such as dementia, people with cancer and persons with high blood pressure. At the same time, those between 18 and 64 years of age with haematological cancer, such as leukaemia, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, down syndrome, transplant patients, patients with impaired immune system, HIV or AIDS and rare diseases will be vaccinated. Within those groups, vaccination is carried out in order of age. Vaccination under the age of 18 is currently not planned. This is the whole debate on how to organise. We need to avoid misunderstandings. One of them was to say that without a comprehensive medical record, you are not invited. That's wrong. Another was to say that mutualities would identify patients and invite them automatically. It doesn't work like that. The physician's role in this case is crucial, both in terms of the invitations that are issued and the identification of a patient. The objective of the practical approach to the selection and invitation of persons at risk due to co-morbidity is to rely on the resources available to identify the persons concerned and to invite them automatically through a doctor, without having to take any steps. The back office process will involve a cross-section of the lists of patients identified by mutualities on the one hand and those indicated by general practitioners on the other. Once this list has been drawn up, all the people on the list will receive a unique code that will give them access to vaccination. DMG is not an end in itself, it is a means of identifying patients with co-morbidity. To be clearer, the invitation of patients with co-morbidity is not based on having a DMG or not, but on being able to be identified by a mutual or physician with whom the patient has a therapeutic relationship. The DMG allows the identification of patients using different algorithms. A patient who does not have a DMG may have a relationship with a general practitioner who will identify this patient. Without advertising, I would also say that every citizen can ask a general practitioner if he or she belongs to any of the risk groups. Mr Bacquelaine could make a great publicity encouraging all people to call their general practitioner! But that is not what needs to be done. However, each individual may consult his or her doctor or physician to verify that he or she belongs to a risk group. Having a DMG is not an administrative requirement. What seems very important to me is that, at the level of the regions and within the regional health agencies, it is a medical official who will sign the invitation letters and send them confidentially to the citizens concerned. It also seems to me to be very important. In the meantime, you're going to tell me that there are massive data transfers. What protection is provided? An opinion on this has been requested from the Data Protection Authority and perhaps has already been given. In any case, this opinion is crucial. In short, we have sought to develop procedures that allow massive and quasi-automatic identification of a series of patients, but it is always a doctor who invites. The DMG is not a prerequisite but a general practitioner who organizes with a DMG can use it to make an automatic identification. In any case, I believe, as Mr Bacquelaine has said, that the general practitioner must play a key role. Perhaps one can highlight an opportunity in all this misery that one lives: general medicine could be improved as well as the role of the general practitioner in the management of public health. That's how I want to understand it, too. I think there was a wrong message. Maybe he's already been removed. It can be said that it is useful for people to contact a general practitioner. It's a tip, but it's not mandatory to do so before getting vaccinated because it would be a brake. It is necessary to look for the balance between the usefulness of contact with the general practitioner, especially when you feel that you have side effects. That's necessary. But on the other hand, we will avoid spreading the idea that to be vaccinated, we must contact his general practitioner. It would be a huge burden for general practitioners. We need a message in between. I believe that it is in this spirit that the Regions discussed with the Task Force how to carry out this campaign. I think that's a good approach. I do not hide behind the competence of my colleagues, but it is above all a regional competence. The debate on essential professions is very sensitive. A lot of questions are being asked on the subject, with a lot of arguments. We have not used the term "essential professions." We have carefully avoided using that semantics, because it concerns a somewhat sensitive and ambiguous semantics. In the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we held a debate on what critical functions are. Many professions are essential, but perhaps not critical. Critical functions are, for example, interventions on the ground by police officers. So we have divided police intervention units into critical functions, for which we want to launch the vaccination campaign in the course of March. Firefighters are also covered by that category. The decision was made after the finding that, if the AstraZeneca vaccine is found to be good for the age group between 18 and 55 and for the care staff, we cannot say with sufficient certainty that we will also use AstraZeneca's vaccine in older people. So the puzzle pieces were moved. This allows us to say that we are already doing something in that puzzle for the limited group of people with a critical function. Paradoxically, we can also start the vaccination campaign for the 65-plussers who will receive Pfizer's vaccine more quickly. Mrs Fonck is looking a bit questionable and I would therefore like to stress that we will not have finished vaccination of the 65-plussers any sooner. We can start faster. I am afraid to predict when we will have finished vaccination of the 65-plussers because that will depend on deliveries. If they come as promised, it must be before the summer. Could there be another debate on that? I'm sure you can. I belong to colleagues in the regions who want to have the debate on education, for example. That's possible. I note with some caution that in practice, in any case, we will not be able to start vaccination of teachers or other professional groups before the month of May, because there is still a large group of care workers, first-line care providers and older people who are first to be dealt with. In that sense, therefore, there is some time for that debate. It could also be that the debate on professional groups, such as education, might become less relevant, because at that time we might be in a situation where we have a lot of vaccines and can move forward quickly for a large group. I myself am somewhat afraid of the debate on what essential professions are, because I believe that this is a really sensitive issue. Many rightly regard their own profession or professional activity as essential. Many have the feeling that they come into professional contact with others who may be infected and that in their job telework cannot be done, such as department store staff. We must take into account the very sensitive nature of this discussion. Perhaps we should also have the realism to realize that, before we are able to choose professional professions, we may already be in May or June and we may already be in a different situation in terms of the availability of vaccines. That will perhaps change the light of day for the debate at that time. That's why I didn't take a position. Personally, I believe it is sensitive to choose essential professions and to regard others as non-essential. That is a difficult debate. That's why I didn't really choose a final position. There were a few specific questions. The staff of the forensic psychiatry centres will be vaccinated from mid-February and is also a priority group. Specialist Candidate Assistant Physicians (MACS) are on an equal footing with other health personnel and are therefore vaccinated at the same time. As far as deliveries are concerned, it remains to be seen that we do not actually have security on deliveries until the very last moment. That's very annoying. We're being admitted to deliveries. For the week to come, we are fairly sure, but we are constantly confronted with surprises. I would therefore prefer not to give figures, in addition to those I have given before. The basic negotiations are taking place at the European level. I have taken note of the question of transparency in this area. The problem of transparency is that we must always speak with two words. You are talking about commitments that you receive, but which are not certain. That is the big problem, with all the emotions associated with it, which is very understandable. I've made a very good note of that. We need to get the information up and running. We are also working on this in a way that can meet the demand for information and transparency. CureVac has also been mentioned. We did order 2.9 million doses of CureVac. The European Union finances part of the cost of purchasing these vaccines. It's well known. These contracts therefore have an impact on the European budget. Therefore, Regulation 2018/1046 of 18 July 2018 laying down the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union shall apply. Article 61 of that Regulation explicitly states that national authorities must avoid any conflict of interest. Each person involved in these procurement cases has signed a declaration of interest and confidentiality drawn up by the European Commission. In view of this, the communication of these contracts and therefore the reports requested would significantly affect Belgium's interests as a Member State in this context and, by extension, the negotiating position of the European Commission in the current and future negotiations with other manufacturers of covid vaccines. I personally believe that public confidence is not so much linked to the debate on contracts, but rather to the granting of marketing authorisation by the European Medicines Agency. Here, I believe that transparency and the necessary debate are essential. As you know, it is only after confirmation of a positive benefit-risk balance that this authorisation is granted. A public version of the evaluation report is available so that the citizen can see all the elements that have led to a positive assessment of the risks and benefits. The European Commission is funding several covid-19 research projects. As regards the distribution of some of these investments among the different manufacturers, this is part of the contractual confidentiality agreements. To the extent that studies are part of the rolling review process and/or the application for the marketing authorisation, each Member State shall have access to studies on the AstraZeneca vaccine. There's confidentiality there, too. On Friday 29 January 2021, the conditional marketing authorisation was granted to AstraZeneca. The European public assessment report (EPAR) will soon be available on the European Medicines Agency's website. There isn't any today. It contains all the data that can also be found in what has been published so far. So that won't be a surprise. In the EPAR you will get all the information summarised in the decision files that have been published so far. Combined results from four clinical studies conducted in the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa showed that the COVID-19 vaccine of AstraZeneca is safe and effective for the prevention of COVID-19 in humans from 18 years of age. There were 24,000 people involved in the study. Half received the test vaccine of AstraZeneca, the other half received a control injection, a dummy injection or another non-COVID-19 vaccine. People did not know if they had received the test vaccine or the control injection. Safety has been established. However, the EEA calculated the preventive effect of the vaccine based on the results of a study COV002 carried out in the United Kingdom and COV003 carried out in Brazil. In any case, the other studies had very few cases, not enough to say anything about the preventive nature of the vaccine. Since the vaccine should be administered in two standard doses and the second dose should be administered between four and 12 weeks after the first, the EMA has also concentrated on the results of people who received the standard two dose treatment. That is another limitation on the size of the sample. This showed that the number of symptomatic COVID-19 cases in people receiving the vaccine had decreased by 59.5% compared to those receiving control injections. This means that the vaccine showed an efficacy of approximately 60% in the clinical trial. Here's the key: most of the participants in this study were between 18 and 55 years old. So we just don't have enough results in participants over 55 years of age to give a figure for how well the vaccine will work in this group. Protection is expected as an immune response is also seen in this age group, based on experience with other vaccines. As there is reliable information on safety in this population, EEA scientific experts consider that the vaccine can be used in older adults. We have based ourselves on the whole of the data, also on what we see in specialized journals. AstraZeneca published interim results in The Lancet in December. In addition to publications in specialist journals, companies are required by law and administrative law to publish the results of clinical studies in external registers, which are accessible to the public. The whole of this has led to the opinion that we are following today. There is discussion about the expression best reasonable effort in relation to deliveries by AstraZeneca. I will repeat what I said in plenary last week. I am also, of course, following the debate on how the European Commission has prepared and acted. I'm a little reluctant to start shooting the pianist hard right now. I believe that the European Commission has taken an approach that has addressed a wide range of producers and has negotiated not to make prices exorbitant, since we have ordered three times as many vaccines as there are Europeans. In return, we may have contracts that are not the hardest contracts in terms of the best possible efficiency. We must assess this as an approach to risk, which may have been wise, but of course we can also see the disadvantages of it, for example if there is a dispute with AstraZeneca about the deliveries that are not settled. It may then be said that the contract is not strong enough, but I would like to assess it with regard to the whole of the effort. The European Commission is negotiating with AstraZeneca and you know that it has decided to make the contract public. Moreover, a system of monitoring of exports of vaccines to other countries outside Europe was also set up. Again, compulsory licences are an interesting discussion, but are not really applicable here. The problem is more of the available production capacity, so I do not think that will help us in the short term. I'm coming to Johnson & Johnson. For the final step of producing Janssen's COOVID-19 vaccine, in particular filling the bottles, two different sites are currently planned, both located in the United States. The company looks at all possibilities to open and validate additional sites for filling vaccines for use. I cannot say in which countries exactly that will be the case. Filling the vaccines in bottles is actually the limiting step in the production of the vaccines, because the production of the active substance takes place in large quantities at the same time. Filling takes relatively more time. The speed of delivery of vaccines is determined to a large extent by that last step. Because many companies are now developing and producing COOVID-19 vaccines, it is not obvious to quickly find additional capacity for filling vaccines. Existing facilities are usually fully occupied for other necessary vaccines and medicines, e.g. other COVID-19 vaccines. It is therefore far from obvious for the companies to quickly open or validate additional sites. The filling of medicines and vaccines is not to be underestimated. It is a difficult operation which must be carried out according to strict procedures and completely sterile. Not every pharmaceutical site has the necessary infrastructure and equipment to carry out this type of production. The obligation not to do so in the United States, but in Europe, as is the case with Johnson & Johnson, is not evident when there are large sites in the United States with a lot of filling capacity. If Johnson & Johnson had the opportunity to open additional sites in Europe and validate them for filling, I think they will definitely consider this possibility. They keep all the options open to increase the overall production of their vaccines as quickly as possible. I will not go into this now, it is not my job to say things about it on behalf of Johnson and Johnson. Mrs Farih, export restrictions are imposed by a European regulation and therefore coordinated at European level. Procedures for controlling exports from Belgium have been established and are already in place. The Regulation requires the manufacturer of the vaccines to apply for authorisation in the Member State in which he is established and also lays down the modalities for that application. In Belgium this permit is applied for and issued by the FPS Economy. Checks on exports shall be carried out by customs on a daily basis. No infringements have been identified so far. In the meantime, we are sticking to simple European principles of solidarity. Purchasing contracts mean that the result is distributed fairly among the European countries. The delivery takes place at the same time in the Member States. Those are important principles. Regarding effectiveness: various studies indicate a slight but potentially insignificant decrease in the neutralising potential of vaccines against the British variant and a greater decrease in neutralising potential against the South African variant. There are no data on vaccines and the Brazilian variant. However, we have to be very careful about reporting on this. These are studies that are not yet subject to peer review. The number of people in these studies is also small. Viruses cultivated in the lab are used, which do not contain all the spike mutations found in the new variants. In addition, current studies look only at antibody response and not at cellular immunity. Johnson & Johnson, in his latest press release on the results of the Phase 3 clinical studies, talked about 57% protection against moderate to severe COVID-19 infection in South Africa, where almost all new cases can be reduced to the South African variant. That's in a press release, it hasn't been published in a scientific article yet. Clinical trials of Moderna and Pfizer did not investigate the impact of the vaccine on transmissibility. It's very important. We don't know on the basis of their studies. Nevertheless, many experts believe that vaccines could have an impact on the transmission chains of the virus, either by completely preventing certain infections or by making people who still contract the virus less contagious for a shorter period of time. Further studies by pharmaceutical companies on transmissibility are planned. The real life outcomes of large-scale vaccination campaigns, as in Israel at present, could provide further information more quickly. The study on the combination of Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines is followed by experts from the Higher Health Council, like all scientific studies on this subject. Currently, all data are being revised. Our local epidemiology is also taken into account. Given the expected number of doses, AstraZeneca vaccine will preferably be used in February to administer the first dose to as many people as possible from a target group to be defined as part of the strategy. For Sputnik V vaccine, vaccine efficacy data are estimated at 91.6% and are based on participants who completed the regimen in two doses, i.e. 19,866 randomized participants on a ratio of three versus one, with three individuals in the group vaccinated for one person in the placebo group. At this point, we have no data other than those published in the Lancet article. As a country, we firmly follow the European approach. Europe is therefore negotiating the contracts. It is a relevant question whether the Russian vaccine would qualify for a European purchase. I don't have any leads on that. We really must remain faithful to a European approach of solidarity, especially for a small country like ours. The question also arises as to whether a dossier on the Sputnik vaccine will be submitted to the EEA and what opinion the EEA will make on it. The Russian Gamaleya Institute that developed this vaccine recently asked the EEA if the current data are sufficient to start a rolling review and therefore intends to apply for a conditional marketing authorisation. Negotiations on the purchase of that vaccine have not yet begun. It is really too early to say anything about Belgium. Mrs Taquin, Mrs Gijbels, there is a study in Belgium funded by us with Sciensano as a sponsor and in collaboration with the ULB and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. This study is carried out in three Belgian residential centres and includes both residents and staff who are all vaccinated with Pfizer and Moderna vaccine. The study investigates how the antibody titres relate just before administering the second dose, as well as one and four weeks afterwards, between people who may or may not have been exposed to the virus in the past. In addition, the study investigates how these same titres relate to a younger and older population and the difference in side effects between people who have or have not been exposed to the virus in the past. This is an interesting study which began on 18 January. The first results are expected by the end of March of this year. Based on one study that has not yet undergone a peer review, it is not considered to change the current vaccination strategy for people who have already been through covid. Currently vaccination is carried out according to the recommendations of the manufacturers. The vaccines are therefore authorised, based on advice from the EEA. That goes back to clinical trials, all with a two-dose vaccination schedule. We'll follow that. If it is medically relevant to give people who have already had covid only one dose, there is still an important logistical problem because of course we have to test for antibodies first. That's not so obvious. Even if that's useful to those people, an additional question is whether it's worth the cabbage. The development of mRNA vaccines included a subgroup of subjects previously exposed to coronavirus. The available data in that group are limited, but they showed that the adverse reactions in this subgroup are similar to those seen in people who were never exposed to the virus. The clinical studies carried out by the companies are still ongoing. New data will therefore be available in the next few weeks. The post market clinical follow-up of the vaccines will also allow to collect additional information on this issue. You had a question about frontier workers and expats, Mrs Creemers. Everyone who has been dominated in Belgium is invited to the vaccination. We are still taking positions on the vaccination of frontier workers and expats. There are good arguments for thinking about frontier workers and expats, but no decisions have yet been taken. Mrs Zanchetta, the confidence of the people is extremely important. The vaccination task force is in constant contact with federated entities and all stakeholders in the field of information and communication. A central group is responsible for communication. All actions are mapped and any gaps identified. The campaigns are conducted through traditional channels: audiovisual media, brochures, webinars, interviews and online (websites, social media). On the basis of university studies which regularly measure the awareness of the population, these actions are adapted if necessary. The working group plays a supportive role with regard to federated entities. The Task Force organizes weekly Q & A sessions with the press, is present at the weekly crisis press conference, offers information in 40 languages and has its own website. With regard to undocumented persons, they will receive the vaccine as any other person on Belgian territory and since they are not listed in the National Register, strategies will be developed to reach them. Vaccination of people in asylum centres is now planned in the vaccination centres. Once again, this is a matter which must be looked at first and foremost in the Länder. However, these vaccinations are also followed. Ms. Fonck, to the knowledge of the administration, there were no complaints from dentists about masks, except for a dentist who contacted us to report that the elastics were loosening behind the ears. I will ask the administration to closely monitor any complaints that may still be filed. A total of 946,000 FFP2 masks distributed to dentists cost €1,941,738. The distribution of these masks was organised by the professional associations on the basis of the home address of the dentists. FFP2 masks were selected based on the test report. They have been positively evaluated according to the Alternative Test Protocol (ATP), according to which the tests are based on penetration of the filter material and total incoming leakage. In terms of fit, the FFP2 masks must be glued to the edge of the nose. According to the test report, the FFP2 masks seem to be of good quality, but we cannot test them in practice beforehand. In collaboration with professional associations, a letter was sent to dentists. It was clearly stated that these were FFP2 masks that were approved under ATP but must be glued to the nose edge. In addition, this clarification is also included on labelling and covering letter, in agreement with professional associations. Mrs Depoorter had a question about the strategic stock. In the context of the epidemic, the Council of Ministers decided to proceed to a public contract on the management of the strategic stock of vaccines, related medicinal products, medical devices and dry ice for the years 2021-2025 under the commitment and clearance appropriations of the Public Health Office. Management refers to the storage, repackaging, including thawing and fractionation, and the distribution of the aforementioned pharmaceutical products to intermediate users, including hospitals, pharmacies and pharmaceutical manufacturers, in accordance with the terms of the specifications and with the standards and regulations of the applicable legislation. It is therefore a public service contract within the meaning of Article 2, 21° of the Public Procurement Act. The procedure chosen is the open procedure. The contract is a price-list contract within the meaning of Article 2, 4°, of the Royal Decree of 18 April 2017. It provides for a duration of four years and is estimated at EUR 30,300,330. In accordance with Article 3 of the Law of 20 December 2020 providing temporary support measures as a result of the covid pandemic, those services shall be exempt from VAT until the end of 2022. The proposal is to finance that expenditure from the interdepartmental commission 2021 corona. We will assess this on the basis of the updated data in the award of the proposed contract. In addition, account will also have to be taken at that time of the state of implementation of the commission. For the financing of the mission for the years 2020 to 2025, the Public Health Office will cover the costs within its own appropriations. Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Fonck had a question about the treatments. There are several antiviral monoclonal antibodies in development, some of which are at an advanced stage. In Belgium, the efficacy and safety of the monoclonal antibody cocktail, namely AZD 7442, is also investigated, which is the monoclonal antibody cocktail of AstraZeneca. For the time being, there are too few clinical data to assess efficacy and safety and the cocktail is not yet used as prophylaxis or therapy in COVID-19. The results of the ongoing phase 3 clinical studies will have to determine whether they will actually be used. The FAGG has approved more than 30 clinical studies that investigate the efficacy and safety of both vaccines and medicinal products for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19. In addition, several applications are still being evaluated to be approved or not. Most clinical trials are ongoing. Some studies will soon be expected to result. An overview of the clinical trials conducted in Belgium can be found through the clinical trials database on the website of the FAGG. Mr. Rigot, Ms. Rohonyi, as previously answered, vitamin D plays an essential role in our organization. Deficiencies must therefore be avoided, both during and outside co-vid periods. The Supreme Council of Health has just released new recommendations to the public on the use of vitamin D in covid time on Thursday, January 28. The opinion is available online in its entirety and can therefore be easily consulted by everyone. The Higher Council recalls that adequate consumption of vitamin D-rich foods, such as fatty fish, eggs, cheese and meat, should be ensured, as well as exposure to the sun. If necessary, a dietary supplement can be added, but can never provide more than 30 μg of this vitamin per day. In any case, these supplements must be taken regularly – at a daily, weekly or monthly rate – and not in the form of megadoses. The use of a very high amount of vitamin D for therapeutic purposes in patients with covid-19 and to prevent very serious forms of vitamin D cannot be recommended at this time. It may be found in clinical studies and cannot be a substitute for the treatment currently used. We do not have any additional information on the French study. To our knowledge, no comparable studies are carried out in Belgium. Of course, the results will be monitored as soon as they are peer reviewed and published in a scientific journal. If I am not mistaken, Mr Steven Van Gucht, the Dutch-speaking homologue of Mr Yves Van Laethem, spoke of this in his public communication today. In any case, this General Council was again given this morning. That seems useful to me. Of course, there is a difference between this very general recommendation – which remains applicable in all circumstances – and the idea that vitamin D cures could be used as a therapeutic means for covid patients. With regard to the Israeli medicine, we have received no more information than what appeared in the press. This new therapeutic candidate has already been closely monitored by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) and by a group of experts coordinated by the Belgian Society for Infectious Disease and Clinical Microbiology. Effective treatments are obviously part of the epidemic arsenal and play a complementary role to preventive vaccination. Let us remember that here, on the basis of what is known through the press, these are very preliminary results of a study in phase 1. Mrs Creemers, you asked about the long-term consequences. I think I have already talked about this. On the website of the Knowledge Centre there is now a follow-up and new elements. I personally think this is important. You're right to knock on that nail all the time. After all, it is an element in the wider debate on long-term ill and phenomena that we often do not understand very well and which often makes people disabled or suffering for a long time, without knowing what to do. It's a good thing the Center of Knowledge succeeds this. I am trying to form an idea on this, but I will only be able to do so when the Centre of Knowledge comes up with more decisions and we have more scientific data. Mr Bacquelaine, as far as the protection of privacy is concerned, you mentioned section 8 of the Royal Decree of 12 January. This measure shall be carried out with due regard for the protection of personal data of privacy. The data are processed in a secure manner and only in the context of the fight against covid-19. As health data require special protection, the treatment is also subject to the supervision of a doctor. The data received by ONSS from Sciensano are not retained for longer than necessary. Identification data shall be deleted no later than 14 days after receipt. The observations of the Data Protection Authority are currently being examined. One of the avenues explored, in collaboration with the relevant ministers, provides for the possibility of adjusting the provision in question. As this exercise is still ongoing, it is not appropriate to prejudge its outcome. A resolute approach to the covid crisis requires the adoption of crisis measures. All our attention goes to that. These measures have already passed numerous legal tests, which does not mean that there is no room for improvement. That is why we are working on a legal framework for pandemic crisis measures. That brings me to Ms. Fonck's question about the pandemic bill. You probably know that there is work being done by my colleague, Mrs Verlinden, on how to manage protective measures. Another aspect concerns the management of the health care system in the event of a very serious crisis. This is the so-called emergency health law. There is a preliminary draft that has been published in the press in an absolutely premature manner. I was very unhappy because, for example, the explanatory statement is almost incomprehensible. It should be improved to clarify what is involved. It was also a preliminary draft notified to the European Commission but not even discussed within the government, so it was rather premature. It's not a mistake. The AFMPS can notify a text that is not yet discussed. It's even quite predictive, but it creates publicity around a text that does not yet have a very precise status. Why are we preparing this initiative? A number of legal acts expire at the end of March this year. Of course, we lived under a regime of special powers. Personally - but it may be my age - I fought here 35 years ago against the special powers of another government. I am educated in the idea of avoiding special powers at all costs. We used special powers with the support of almost all parties. The idea, instead of special powers, is to create a well-defined legal framework which, in the event of a serious crisis, allows for a quick decision. This also allows for a much more regular, frequent and transparent way of communicating with Parliament than with the special powers. I believe that we can improve the regime for what is done with special powers. I was delighted that this government did not have the special powers in its government agreement when I was invited to participate. It was pretty important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u21	No! The government is working in an area that is not very well defined. These are still special powers of the previous government. They're circulars. These are urgent laws, etc. It's an uncomfortable area for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u22	I propose to leave it to the minister to explain himself. You'll all have the opportunity to reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u23	That is why we say that we must legislate. It should also be borne in mind that this is also due to questions that you are dear to, Mrs Fonck, and in particular to the financing of hospitals. Pre-financing systems for hospitals should also be provided, if necessary. A well-organized legal basis for doing so would also be appropriate. The text in question is now being discussed within the government. I hope we can drop him off quickly. Mr President, I have been very long, but I have tried to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will now see if they have satisfied our colleagues. They and they're gonna be able to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to come back to the possibility for the clinical labs to sequence. I didn't quite get it. Will the non-university labs, of course if they have the know-how and experience, be able to sequence and can they do so autonomously? I would like to hear that question with a yes or no answer. At some point you said that they could simply take part in those missions, and at another time you said that the federal platform would be used as a priority. I would like some clarification on this, especially because I hope that we do not make the same mistakes as in the first wave, with the first federal testing platform, where things have gone wrong. We should also remember that in the current federal testing platform-bis, half of the university labs have no experience of sequencing at all, while several clinical labs and hospital labs are already doing so. That is why I hope that the laboratories accredited for this will also be recognised and involved. I didn't get a direct answer to the question about the corona app. I also asked a question about the ongoing studies at Sciensano on antibodies in health workers and the surveillance of hospitals. I would have liked to know where to find the underlying data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, even if they were not complete. As far as the tests on Coris are concerned, you say the hospitals bought them. How do you link this to the publication of the FAGG of 2 April, which clearly states that 350,000 such tests have been ordered from the company Coris BioConcept? You also discussed the erasers and we discussed them two weeks ago. I was told that the wipers that are in quarantine are still being used and sold. Are you aware of that? Did you do any research on that? About the vaccination strategy, you have explained how you have determined or will determine the risk groups. In my view, this is on the verge of permissible legislation, given the GDPR legislation. One possibility is to work through the general practitioners and the home pharmacists, i.e. through the ATC codes, while you will work through the health insurance funds. Will the sickness funds be reimbursed for this? Was filling the vaccine in the contract that Europe signed with Johnson & Johnson? In other words, were you aware of that in advance? You clearly state that it is the intention to proceed with the pandemic law in March. We have already had a few discussions on this: we would have liked to have had a consultation with the stakeholders and with the people you have consulted with for their formatting. In the previous legislature, we have often done so in the Committee on Justice, and I ask you to go along the route with us, so that we can really decide what we are voting on together. You state that the pre-financing of the hospitals has to do with that. That is true, because I note that you are now going back to the interdepartmental commission for the payment of many measures. So everything is not yet incredibly budgeted, especially when I hear that the management of the strategic stock will still have to look for money in the multiannual budget. I did not receive an answer to my question about the ceiling on voluntary allowances. In the vaccination centres we will work with many volunteers, who will receive fair compensation for this. We fear that they will soon be at the ceiling in terms of compensation if their cooperation lasts a few months. Have you been consulted on this, or have agreements already been made to prevent the volunteers from getting into trouble?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u27	Minister, I understand that the vaccination strategy is in full development and that you are not yet able to answer the question of expats living outside Europe. However, this must be a point of attention, because if they come home in the summer or later in the year without having been vaccinated, this can cause problems here. The opposite is also possible. I live in the border region, where many people cross the Dutch border to work there. Some of them are vaccinated in the Netherlands, at work. The question arises as to whether, if they are summoned here, they can somehow make it clear that they have already been vaccinated. That is also a point of interest. Furthermore, we continue to pay attention to the problem of lung covid, because we are getting signals from patients who have been really ill for a long time. The United Kingdom is already collecting information for professionals, and that is a good example of how we can respond to it in the short term. I understand you'd like to await the study of the KCE, because then you'll have evidence-based information. When that study is completed in the autumn, there are patients who have been ill for a year and a half and cannot work in full. If such a thing already exists in the UK and we can duplicate it here, then we can prevent professionals who want to help long-covid patients from reinventing the hot water; they can then find all the information on one platform. That is a first step that we can take in the meantime and in the autumn we can continue with what we find out through the KCE. So I would advise you to take that suggestion with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have no specific reply to make, except for the vaccination communication campaign. I am pleased to see that it is of paramount importance to you. It is known that the accession of the population is essential to see the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to clarify one point concerning the problem of homelessness and the undocumented. Maybe my question was wrong. But I was not speaking on behalf of those who are currently in the reception facilities. Indeed, I have no doubt that Fedasil is putting in place the necessary follow-up. I was speaking on behalf of the homeless, the undocumented, the transmigrants and the migrants who are outside the structures, and therefore below the radars, but for whom it is also important to have good information, a good promotion of the actions to be carried out, on the assumption that these people must also be able to be tested and vaccinated. This is a public health measure that we absolutely must take. For the moment, however, I have a great deal of concern about this, which is relayed by Unia, as I said earlier. With regard to the other points, including the one relating to the police force, I will not fail to address the Minister of the Interior. The stakes are important because our police officers are asked to be very present in the field to prevent, but also to crack down when necessary, when the co-vid measures imposed on our fellow citizens are not respected. Minister, many police areas have told me that it is not only the intervention police that are at the front, but also more broadly the entire police force that must contribute to this important effort to ensure that the measures are respected as best as possible. It is therefore important to extend vaccination to those who today contribute to the major effort that we must make. That is what I wanted to add on behalf of the PS Group. Before concluding my speech, I would like to ask you to apologize for the absence of Mr Patrick Prévot, who, too, for reasons of mobility, was unable to join us this afternoon. It's freezing and we're all paralyzed. This happens every year. That is the reality that we are also confronted with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u30	Mr President, Minister, you score a little less well on your answers than you did last time. Last time you answered all my questions, about half today. I have not received an answer, unless I am mistaken, but I do not think so, to Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5513205C on the coronabarometer, Question No 55013716C on what should or may be done with vaccines on surplus in, for example, residential care centres and on Question No 55013930C on vaccination of the care staff. I'm beginning to wonder if that last question disappears into your spam box. I would advise you to check it out. It's actually a very simple question. Will you or will you not add the vaccination against COVID-19 to the list of mandatory vaccinations for the care staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u31	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u32	That was a very simple answer. I've done five questioning sessions to get that answer. On this, my thanks. I have a number of additional questions as a criminal expedition, because you have done so long. Minister, you said just now, if I understand correctly, that the vaccination of young people under 18 is not provided for. Does this also apply to young people who suffer from one of the diseases you mentioned and who are treated as a priority in the group 18 to 55 years? After all, I can imagine that a young person aged 17 years and 11 months with chronic lung disease, for example, is also entitled to vaccination. You have explained that AstraZeneca vaccine will be used for the group 18 to 55 years and Pfizer-BioNTech for the 55-plussers. This will therefore allow for a faster vaccination. The vaccination of the 55-plussers is started, but that does not mean that the vaccination campaign will be completed more quickly, you say. Not only did Mrs. Fonck have questions, so did I. Suppose you take the train at 5:00 p.m. and I take the train at 6:00 p.m., but we arrive together at 7:00 p.m. Then your train must have stopped somewhere for an hour, otherwise you can't. Where's the delay? Where's the stop? Is it based on logistics, production, on the vaccination capacity of the country? How do you explain that coming at the same time if you're leaving early than I am?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u33	Mr Minister, on the financing of private laboratories, you replied that the scheme applies to all clinical labs. I would like to remind you of one of the comments made in the special co-vid committee, particularly in order not to forget the clinical labs of the hospitals either. They are quite sensitive about this. So I hope the arrangement will be for all the labs. However, you promised that this would be done by the end of January 2021. It is now early February 2021. I hope that there will be no delay, but that the scheme will enter into force quickly, so that the labs will receive the necessary financial support quickly. There are also four questions not answered about the night clock, the CO2 meters, the bad news of the third wave and the figures that indicate otherwise, and about the covid debate on vaccinations. You didn't answer those questions. So if you still have time to answer questions. 55013217C, 55013282C, 55013711C and 55013738C to answer, I would very much appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u34	Minister, you are obviously right to point out the difficulty of vaccinating people who perform so-called essential functions. The definition of essential functions is somewhat complicated. This reminds me of another debate which you know very well about the difficult functions in the field of pensions. It was also a debate where everyone tended to think that his profession was the most painful. Here too, we are faced with this problem. I think we need to go back to objective considerations. Persons working in occupations that put them at risk of contamination should be vaccinated as soon as possible. Those who work in occupations that put them in a position to contaminate other people must also be vaccinated as quickly as possible. Thank you for your appreciation of the role of general practitioners. This role is crucial in the organisation of the vaccination campaign, especially for vulnerable people with pathologies who make them more at risk from covid-19. Honestly, I'm still hungry about the role of insurers and mutuals. I recall that we are the only country in the world where mutuals are, for the most part (but not all), politicized. Some of them participate in joint political combat actions. Whether these mutualist bodies are in charge of grouping data together and cross-checking them to draw up lists of people who carry a particular pathology, this raises a real question to me. I therefore think that the role of general practitioners needs to be re-examined. They are most likely to determine whether a patient, a person, meets the necessary conditions to be among the vulnerable or at risk in order to be vaccinated more quickly. I repeat my apprehension with regard to a system that would set in motion the establishment of lists of persons carrying a particular pathology by bodies which, beyond their role of transmitting data to INAMI, are also parapolitical organisations. I think this is totally unacceptable, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u35	Minister, I am disappointed that you did not answer the question about this very high hospital bill. Formal notices had been sent to a patient, while the maximum amount to be billed had yet to be processed. In short, I am somewhat surprised that you did not answer that question at all. However, it seemed to me that access to health care was paramount. Will you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u37	Then I'll check again. With regard to vaccination and the identification of groups at risk, I should like to point out that an article was again published today on the website of the Medical Journal. It stated that "patients at risk without a generalist must find one".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u39	The doctor's diary doesn't write anything either. Apparently, that's what the Vaccination Task Force said at the press conference last Saturday. In short, I see a huge confusion. It's February 9th. As a general practitioner, I have still not received specific instructions on what role I should play. I followed a webinar organized for generalists. We were told that we would have nothing to do, because everything would be automated. Anyway, it seems to me that we're organizing the mess. Therefore, very clear instructions will have to be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u40	Minister, Mrs Farih was obliged to leave us unfortunately, but she informs me that she is satisfied with your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u41	Mr. Chair, although the pace is frightful, there is a lot to say about timing and the ability to ask questions in three minutes, to reply in two minutes, and to make shortcuts, when the minister can answer in an argument – and I can understand that. I'd appreciate it if I could do it, too. Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to comment on the recent decisions of the various governments, but also on your responses today. With regard to the decisions of the Codeco, who here may not be convinced that it is essential to make progress on all signals and concerns about the mental health of children, adolescents and young adults? Governments keep speaking on the subject and the next Codeco, there's nothing! I plead that the activities which can be carried out under the most secure conditions and which bring a major added value to children, adolescents and young adults can really be expanded. I am referring in particular to external activities where the risk is known to be minimal. I am still very concerned that studies and tests are still needed and that we are still asking ourselves questions as to whether we are going to do more tests in schools (teachers and pupils) but also in workplaces where telework is not possible. This is, however, widely demonstrated in international literature. Let questions and studies be invoked again is incomprehensible! As far as mutants are concerned, you say that we must not reason differently. I want to say yes, but no. Yes, because what we know (gestures barriers, testing, etc.) At the same time, there is a need for greater responsiveness, as a number of them have a much greater transmission capacity. When we identify mutants, we must ask ourselves the question of a much wider and more automatic quarantine, for example in classes and schools. Today we are one of the European Member States that is very little isolated from others with greater risks of mutant contamination. I'm going to vaccination. I plead once again, and I will do so every week, so that the generalists are much more involved. As far as mutuals are concerned, I will not make the political comments that others have made. Frankly, identifying via mutualities on the basis of lists provided by mutualities, minister, is not at all respect for medical secrecy! That really raises a lot of questions. It is not because it is a medical official who will finally sign the invitation that this is justified and the medical secrecy is respected. I do not agree at all with the way you present things. I understand that all governments have chosen it, including the Regions, but I do not agree with you on this point. Also with regard to the decisions of the Interdepartmental Conference on Health, you decide that teachers are not subject to a critical exhibition. I would like to call on you to be consistent, with the desire to keep schools open. Teachers in primary and nursery classes, as well as childcare workers in nurseries, do not work like cashiers in a supermarket behind a plexiglas plaque. Moreover, they cannot maintain the same distance: when you have to take a child in your arms, they have no other option than to do so. I therefore urge you and your colleagues to pay particular attention to this aspect. For the AstraZeneca vaccine, you are highlighting the Phase 3 study. Today, however, recent data indicate that the South African strain of the virus is 22 per cent effective. The slower the vaccination, the more problematic the situation may become. If the above information is correct, it is imperative to vaccinate much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u42	May I ask you to conclude, Mrs. Fonck?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u43	I did not get an answer to my question on cross-border workers. As regards purchases of monoclonal antibodies, I note that Belgium has not ordered them, unlike the other Member States. Finally, as far as the preliminary health emergency project is concerned, you have not answered my real question, namely what consultations have taken place? Your non-response seems to indicate that there was probably no response. I hope that on the side of the Vivaldi majority, we will have more consultation than you have done to date. Mr President, I deplore this debate by "mini-phrases", which is a real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u44	I understand you, Mrs Fonck, but the methodology has been defined by the committee. We have talked about this recently and it is not up to me to change this method. It is the best – or rather the worst – method that can be found. I will simply ask you in the future to abide by the rules, as everyone is committed to doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u45	Mr President, I have a question about the order of business. The issue of hospital bills related to covid-19 was not taken up in the covid-19 debate but in the non-covid-19 debate. I insist that we be able to put it down the next time we see each other in the non-covid-19 discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u46	Did you mention covid-19 in the title?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u47	In the title, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u48	We will ask the secretariat to be tabled as part of the non-covid-19 discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the contact trades are concerned, I can perfectly understand that the challenge was to proceed with a gradual defination and, therefore, not to release all the valves at the same time. However, this has been felt, rightly, as a profound discrimination against other contact occupations than hairdressers because the sanitary protocols to which they are subjected are exactly the same. At the very least, I think it would have been welcome, during the press conference that followed the Consultation Committee, for you to have an explanation and a little word about them. With regard to the wider recovery of sectors, I understand that GEMS will have a reflection on the impact of successful vaccination. It's more than time! On the other hand, I continue to regret that there is still no reflection on the tools available to us to allow a safe recovery of the sectors. I am thinking in particular of the Horeca and the event. It is incomprehensible to me today that GEMS refuses to look at these tools to remain in a pure logic of analyzing the numbers of the epidemic. As for the vaccination of so-called risky functions, forgive me, but you drown the fish. You still do not communicate to us the precise criteria on the basis of which a function has been considered critical. You are telling us that the vaccination of teachers could be considered for the month of May or even June. It is far too late because, as my colleague Fonck has explained, the challenge today is to be able to ensure that education is provided in good conditions, in safe conditions and, therefore, to be able to keep schools open. In relation to this, I will make two suggestions. I invite you, on the one hand, to keep a dynamic and transparent timetable on the planned and actual deliveries of vaccines, on the doses that would have been released as a result of refusal of vaccinations or vaccines such as AstraZeneca which cannot be dispensed to older people. On the other hand, I propose that you establish sub-priorities among teachers, whether on the basis of the risk they take in the course of their duties or on the basis of their age. As far as co-morbidities are concerned, you tell us that you are aware of the primary role of the general practitioner and that it is for this reason that the general practitioners were involved in the Vaccination Task Force, in any case for the determination of risk groups. I wonder when they were involved because, during our hearings in the Covid Special Committee, the general practitioners explained to us that they were not involved in this Vaccination Task Force, even though they had requested it. Still, why limit the involvement of general practitioners to this single aspect of the vaccination strategy? I therefore remain very disappointed with this, especially since the general practitioners who are being attacked with applications today deserve to be supported. Finally, regarding vitamin D, I thank you for your very valuable advice, although some are difficult to apply in Belgium. More seriously, I think that this really deserves a targeted and accessible communication because suggesting to the citizen lambda to visit the site of the Higher Council of Health is really not optimal. For example, people at risk could be recommended to assess their vitamin D deficiency or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u50	Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u51	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to apologize because I may have misunderstood the issue of the undocumented. What you say about the homeless and the undocumented is quite valid. So I wrote it down. I'll talk to my staff before I answer you. Mrs Gijbels, I do not go into the debate, but I suggest that I send a note to the committee on the labs when we are done. After all, I also mentioned in my reply that we are not quite finished. I do not know if everyone is aware of it, but as you undoubtedly know, an attitude needs to be adopted as to who can do the genome sequencing and for whom it is repaid. It is therefore a question of whether it can be done and whether it will be repaid. Then there are the specific PCR tests that allow to approximately identify mutants with a certain predictive value. The question is again who can do that and who will be reimbursed for it. In fact, that is four subjects. We are not all around and I am afraid to improvise on parts you are asking for. I therefore propose that, once we are done, I make a clear note. That could be interesting. All aspects will be summarised. I'll deliver them to the committee. That's my first proposal. Secondly, Mrs Depoorter, I would like to do something in the same way for you. I can't answer your question about the purchase of that Coris BioConcept that wasn't purchased by the federal government or the FAGG. There may have been statistics on it, but you are also asking for a detail of the statistics, which I cannot just give you here. I propose that I reply in writing. The same is true of the erasers that were quarantined in accordance with the discussion that we had two weeks ago, but which, according to you, are still being sold. I must remain guilty of that question and suggest that I look at the question. Will the mutualities be compensated for their role in the vaccination campaign? The answer is no. I believe that your question on compensation for volunteers has been referred to the Committee on Social Affairs. I am afraid to improvise on this point either. Mr Creyelman, I did not answer your question about the corona barometer because I thought I had already replied. I have said in one sentence that we are currently preparing and working on the vaccination campaign, the number of vaccinations, deliveries and all the details. That's what you actually wanted to know: a vaccine barometer. I have said in one sentence that we are preparing, but we are not yet ready. I have already replied a few times to the question about the old discussion on the coronabarometer. I believe that we should have a management strategy based on a number of clear indicators. You can call that a barometer, but the word "barometer" was no longer appropriate for me. Moreover, at the beginning of this debate, I said that the commission was instructed to examine those key indicators, namely how many hospitalizations and how many infections are a signal for an alarming situation, and how the R value of those two indicators should be assessed. By rolling out the vaccination campaign, of course, the meaning of infections evolves on the one hand and hospitalizations on the other. Actually, the hospitalizations are the crucial factor. Contaminations are a kind of underlying factor. To the extent that we can successfully vaccinate, we may be able to live with more infections, as long as there are fewer hospitalizations. The Commissioner will think about this just now, against the next Consultative Committee. We may need to review that criterion of 800 infections and 75 hospitalizations. The key factor is the hospitalizations. I am inclined to think that these 75 average hospitalizations are a very important safety limit. The extent to which infections are dangerous actually depends on what the consequences of those infections are. This in turn depends on the success of the vaccination campaign. For the record, we are not in a situation today where enough vaccination has been carried out to say that 2,400 infections per day are a safe situation. So that's not what I'm saying. Of course, that will change in terms of future prospects. And that is exactly what we have given to the Commissioner. As regards any surplus of vaccines, the regional agencies should adopt the position. I do know that the Flemish agency allows, for example, if vaccines are too much after administration in a residential care centre, and the coordinating general practitioner is not vaccinated, he or she can be vaccinated. That happens and is acceptable, as I understand it. At the level of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we have not defined a policy on surplus vaccines, but there are practices that are tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u52	That is what I was talking about, Minister. I think there are some alternatives to a vaccine on surplus. You yourself give the example of a first-line doctor. We can come up with some examples. I think you agree with me that politicians should not be on this list if we want to keep them credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u53	No doubt. I still have to think about the timing for people under 18 years of age. I will also mention this aspect to my staff. The vaccine use is shifting. Now we say that the Pfizer vaccines are for the 65-plussers. How then can they start faster, but not necessarily faster? That is because it is a shift in the use of the stock that one has. To vaccinate that whole group, one must have enough vaccines until the last 65-pluser has been vaccinated. So the question is how large the total stock must be, or better, how quickly will the total stock be available between now and the summer? I'm afraid to say that. There are, among other things, uncertainties about deliveries. So I'm not saying anything about that, because I'm not absolutely sure. It could be that a train that leaves faster, at a certain time bulges slower, or that it is delayed due to problems with deliveries. That's why I'm being careful. But it's obvious that the train leaves faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u54	Mr President, I do not wish to start the debate, but I would like to interrupt you, Minister. I'll take your comparison. Are you actually saying that it is not because we leave an hour earlier, we also need to arrive an hour earlier? An earlier arrival is possible, but not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u55	That's right. I'm afraid to make any statements about it. I'm careful about that. Mrs Sneppe asked a question about ventilation and the CO2 meters, which I had indeed lost sight of. Ventilation is extremely important, and a CO2 meter can help to objectivate whether ventilation is needed and whether the ventilation is good enough. However, I would like to stress that ventilation must always be combined with all other measures, such as keeping away, wearing a mouth mask and correct cough and hand hygiene. There is now an interesting, very detailed advice from the Risk Management Group on ventilation. There are some general conclusions to this. The opinion is not yet 100 % ready. For example, not all aspects have yet been examined as to what this means for the contact professions. However, we have already asked the Coronac Commission and everyone involved in the protocols to take a thorough look at the RMG's advice on ventilation and to build it into the practice of the contact professions. I'm not a technician, but as far as I'm concerned, there's absolutely no need to have a separate CO2 meter in every classroom. If one has measured in one class, one can take the CO2 meter to another class, I think. Hopefully there will be no misunderstandings about that. I'm not a technician, so don't take my words for granted, but it's a spontaneous reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u56	Minister, I did not ask what was decided on the labs and sequencing and an overview of them. I'll ask what you'll do and what you'll do as an assignment. Can clinical hospital labs accredited for sequencing be included in the sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 virus? So will they also have access to the nomenclature? I will hear what will be decided, but I would like to know whether you will reserve it for the federal testing platform or whether all the labs that have undergone and are accredited all these years will be able to carry out sequencing and will be reimbursed for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u57	Were you aware of refilling in other countries, Minister? Was this in Johnson & Johnson's contract? Will this affect the delivery time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u58	Mr Minister, I have still not received an answer to my question about the vaccination debate, not to mention the alarming reports concerning the third wave and the other figures we have. Nor have I received an answer to the question whether the night clock is based on scientific insight and what is at the basis of the early hours of that night clock, ten or twelve hours. I hope you will take the comment about CO2 meters with you, including to other groups. You only talk about the contact professions, but I also think about culture, churches, cinemas. Those people also crave to throw the doors open again. I will read the advice of the RMG and hopefully it can be implemented so that some perspective can be offered to many groups. I shall retable the other unanswered questions in the hope of getting an answer after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic370x.u59	Minister, with regard to the evolution of the epidemic, I hear you talking about indicators or the number of hospitalizations, but I never want you to take into account the number of mutants and, above all, their potential exponential dynamics. When I look at the figures – I'm not talking about those published in open data by the government – there is an exponential dynamic with a crossover of curves in relation to the evolution of global contamination. For me, this is a major indicator that needs to be followed and that we should be able to publish and explain. We need to track these mutants more importantly. You didn't answer me about the vaccination of cross-border workers. As far as patients are concerned, I have submitted a text. I have been arguing for a long time that we should move forward on a series of very concrete points to help them. You always answer by highlighting the KCE studies. That's good, but there's an extremely important international literature on long covids. Let us not wait for a new layer of studies and take into account important elements that we already know at the scientific level in order to be able to make concrete progress for these patients. This is a major public health issue.
