ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u1	Welcome, everybody. We have very little time because we must finish at 1:45 p.m. The maximum capacity of the room is 24 people. The cameraman can stay to film if the social distance is respected, but I have to ask the people in the press in excess to leave the room. Here's the procedure we're going to follow: the minister will start with an introduction. It will be followed by presentations by the three experts present from the vaccination task force. They'll introduce themselves. It'll take up to an hour. Then we'll have an hour and a quarter. Since we are addressing only one theme today, I will calculate one speaking time per group. There will be a brief reply from the minister and a reply time, all within an hour and a quarter. The minister received some 20 questions in advance, from most groups. I assume that he will already respond as much as he can at the time of his introduction. Possible additional questions may then arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u2	Mr President, on Tuesday the committee asked for a topical debate on the vaccination campaign. You will remember that I said at that time that it might be more interesting to organise a thorough exchange of views with the task force itself. Then you will immediately get an insight into the latest proposals from the task force. I also added that we had a special moment on Tuesday because we had received confirmation from Pfizer-BioNTech regarding the security of deliveries of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in the short term. This short-term security of supply was an important element in the implementation of the vaccination campaign. What is before us today is a proposal from the Task Force on Vaccination, which is an interfederal group, with scientists and representatives of the relevant authorities in the regions and communities. The task force has been set up at the covidec and aims to bring about a unified action in a country where the powers of vaccination are spread across different political entities and in a pandemic as we know it today. What is ahead is a proposal that I understand was knocked off last night in the task force. Political decision-making is, of course, not taking place in the task force, but in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, with my colleagues from the Flemish Community, the Brussels-Hoofsted Region, the French Community and the German-speaking Community. You must understand what is going on here as a proposal that goes to the health ministers and that is the subject of political decision-making at that level. I insist on that, and with that an additional thought immediately. The principles on which this proposal is based, as well as the strategy and priorities, have been agreed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. The actual roll-out and the answer to the question of exactly what number of people we expect to be able to vaccinate depend, of course, on the producers, the approval of their vaccines and the speed with which they can deliver. The concrete roll-out will undoubtedly continue to evolve. I would like to stress this very strongly. With the Health Ministers, we have asked the Task Force to be very flexible and manoeuvrable and to develop an approach that can respond to constantly changing circumstances, including in the future, in the light of production rhythms, approvals and evolving scientific insights. This must be taken into account. What is ahead is a proposal based on the insights and certain assurances that we have today, but also on a number of uncertainties. What is ahead will undoubtedly change even further in the coming period, as more insights are added and as more vaccines are recognised, but the principles and strategy constitute a robust agreement between Health Ministers. This is how you should read this proposal. We will continue to work on it with the health ministers. It is no doubt also a very important point for this afternoon's Consultation Committee, which will not take any decisions on this, but, as you know, the Consultation Committee is also considering the management strategy for the corona virus. The vaccination will, of course, increasingly play a very important role in the management strategy. The vaccination, if it succeeds, is the fundamental solution to the health crisis that we are facing, in Belgium, in our neighbouring countries and throughout Europe. That is why it is important that we organise vaccinations in European solidarity. We jumped on a European train. It is also important for us that our neighbouring countries are on that train. It is important that we too are well on that train. You have undoubtedly heard the welcome news that the European Commission is engaged in a firm negotiation with Pfizer-BioNTech for an important additional disk of vaccines. This negotiation has been successful and, of course, it opens up prospects for our country, which I cannot yet detail, but I am sure we will be able to do so in the coming period. This will undoubtedly give rise to further changes in the scheme. I would like to stress that. Mr President, I would like to give the floor to the members of the task force who are here. I am talking about colleagues because they are actually three professors. I don't know who takes the floor first, but I think it's the deal that Jean-Michel Dogné speaks first. If I may, I would suggest that you begin the presentation with him, Mr President. I hope that the presentation answers a number of questions, but we will, of course, listen to all the questions and comments that come next.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u3	The speakers may indeed take the floor in the order you wish, Minister. They may also be able to imagine for a moment. I would like to tolerate that the cameras remain in front of the image, but I would urge the journalists to take their seats in the gallery once again. We are here with too many people. There are directives on the number of people who may be present in this Chamber, and we must also set a good example. Of course, I am not going to remove Members, staff and certainly not speakers, hence the question to journalists to sit in the gallery. I'm sorry for the inconvenience, but that's part of this pandemic, too. Mr Dogné, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not know me, I am a professor at the University of Namur where I run the pharmacy department. I have been an expert in the development of medicinal products and pharmacovigilance for more than 15 years, both with AFMPS and the European Medicines Agency, as well as with certain committees. Since May, I have been a member of the WHO Global Vaccine Safety Committee. It is not only at national level that we need to adapt and be flexible to put a vaccine on the market as quickly as possible, but also on the regulatory side – whether it is the AFMPS or the European Medicines Agency. This applies both to the placing of vaccines on the market and to their precise monitoring. Extraordinary situation, extraordinary response. Without exaggerating, I would point out that we are working day and night on the possibility of placing them on the market as soon as possible. Since the data comes to us as we move on, we adapt and reduce the time tables to come with vaccines that are on the European market. In this context, allow me to remind you of the current procedure for the authorisation of vaccines. Why "current"? Because, as I have told you, we are in an extraordinary situation and we are using the appropriate regulatory tools to enable continuous analysis of the data provided by the pharmaceutical industry. This has been done recently, with another medicine - Remdesivir - to be able to propose a marketing authorisation fairly quickly, i.e. by the end of June. The current development is being accelerated by both the pharmaceutical industry and regulatory authorities. It is important to remember that we maintain the quality of the studies provided and the robustness of the data. This is possible through both scientific and industrial collaboration, through public-private partnerships. This method allowed the collection of initial biological data to identify therapeutic targets. This was done quickly, that is, in January. In this way, vaccines have been developed. I'm not going to go back, but it's this famous S protein that's been proposed. It is true that some vaccine platforms were unprecedented in terms of drug development and marketing. This is the case with RNA vaccines. Phase 3 was launched quite quickly - at the beginning of July for the vaccines we're going to talk about here - on average over 30,000 individuals, regardless of the vaccine - Pfizer or Moderna and those to come - which increases their clinical study capacity. You must understand that it is necessary, in order to ensure sufficient data power for efficacy reasons, that the number of people in the groups to be vaccinated is sufficient. This justified the number of at least 30,000 individuals. In addition, this should be seen as an opportunity to provide more powerful observational data to measure adverse events in these studies. Indeed, the more individuals you will have, the more you will observe such effects. As a result, we have increased from an average of 3,000 individuals vaccinated, for vaccines authorized for more than 10 years, to 15,000 individuals vaccinated. Of course, you have 15,000 who make up the placebo group. The impact is rarer on the identification of these effects than we could have seen in these clinical studies. The duration of studies was also not shortened. I would remind you that, in the majority of cases, they will last a year or even two, and that they started in early July for most of the vaccines we are going to talk about today. Intermediate analyses were produced when we had at least 50% of the people followed during the two months after the second dose. This led to some tension in September-October. Let me remind you that some people wanted a faster authorisation of vaccines. However, for safety data, it was suggested that sufficient people should be vaccinated at least two months after the second dose. Why two months? Because it is known - and it is important - that most side effects occur within two months of administration of vaccine doses. We have therefore followed the traditional procedures. Finally, I'm going to follow up on the authorizations. We know that several postmarketing studies have been imposed and proposed to the pharmaceutical industry. It is therefore wrong to say that it can wash its hands as soon as its vaccines are placed on the market. More than three additional studies are requested at the time of market launch. This is the case for studies of pregnant women or immunocompromised and fragile patients. Studies in children are also anticipated. Safety monitoring is allowed during post-operation safety studies. These studies, which are being prepared, have been prepared in advance. This is part of the so-called risk management plan. Extraordinaryly, it is fully published - and you could see that it was one of the first two publications, with respect to the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Furthermore, pharmacovigilance systems have been adapted, both nationally and internationally, to monitor their adverse reactions – also in the longer term. These risks are expected, but are not necessarily examined in clinical studies. You have all heard about the anaphylactic shocks, which have indeed been observed. There is now an estimate of 1 in every 100,000 cases - these are very rare events. SOPs have also been adapted to ensure that people are followed, once vaccinated, for at least 15 minutes. In addition, the necessary support equipment must be made available. This safety of patients and individuals to be vaccinated as a priority therefore also has an impact on the organisation of vaccination. The feedback is now good on the use of vaccines in more than a few million people vaccinated around the world, including with the Pfizer vaccine. To answer a number of questions in this context, I will re-introduce what is called a conditional marketing authorization. I would like to point out that initially, the pharmaceutical industry submits the dossiers to the European Medicines Agency composed of various committees, two of which are specifically working on the evaluation: the CHMP provides the opinion of the benefit-risk balance and the PRAC analyses these famous risk management plans. An additional committee has been set up which is called a task force or the ETF to take into account the expertise of different committees. It is the CHMP that gives the opinion to the European Commission and it is the Commission that actually makes the marketing authorisation valid in all 27 Member States. What is a conditional marketing authorization? This means that the approval of the drug responds to what is called the unmet medical need, which is the case here - a medical need not satisfied - of patients based on less complete data than those normally required. It is on these less complete data that I want to insist. However, the available data should indicate that the benefits of the medicinal product outweigh the risks. This means that the benefit-risk balance is positive. However, additional data will continue to be provided. I told you about it. This is the case in clinical studies that were analyzed in the intermediate data generally three to four months after the inclusion of patients. Studies will continue for up to two years in general. This is what justifies, for example, this conditional marketing authorization. This was published for both the Pfizer vaccine and the Moderna vaccine. Other studies that I have mentioned are also under way. This will allow measures of the duration of protection, to measure the correlation between a type of vaccine and a somewhat rarer or severe type of event, the effects on immunocompromised patients, pregnant women, children. It is quite classic, whether with vaccines or with medicines, to have a follow-up in real life. This is what justifies the conditions of conditional authorization here. Furthermore, there are also quality data that need to be provided in an additional way, not that vaccines are not of quality, but, in order to assess stability or another aspect, a series of additional information is needed. What we must remember is that the benefit-risk balance is positive. I come to the various vaccines that are in the pipeline. You know that Pfizer's Comirnaty vaccine is an RNA vaccine that requires two doses. It was specifically authorised on 21 December following the positive opinion of the European Medicines Agency of the European Commission. Then, the Moderna vaccine was approved on 6 January 2021. These vaccines have comparable efficacy and a comparable RNA platform. The next one currently under discussion is the AstraZeneca vaccine, which uses another platform, an adenovirus platform. It is a non-replicative viral vector that will also require two doses. Its efficiency data are a little less good but still excellent. They are in the order of 70.4% if average data are taken. This is still being discussed with the European Medicines Agency. So you see that we are in rolling review, i.e. in revision of this data since 1 October 2020. The opinion of the European Medicines Agency is announced by the end of January, early February. The fourth vaccine, based on the same type of non-replicative viral vector platform, is also an adenovirus of the Belgian company Janssen. The authorization should be issued at the end of the first quarter or at the beginning of the second quarter. I can't give you the exact information. On the other hand, what is interesting in this vaccine is that it is considered in studies at one or two doses. It could also allow a vaccine to be given at one dose. The fifth vaccine that has been "purchased" by the Medicines Agency from the European Commission is the Curevac vaccine. We're back with a messenger RNA platform. He's a little out of date. I can't give you a more accurate estimate. An authorization is expected at the end of the second quarter. This is the state of play of the progress of the benefit-risk balance data of the various vaccines and the processes under way. This, I think, allows some questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u5	Thank you, Jean-Michel Dogné, for this clear statement on the vaccines that were developed in a short time. Of course, we need vaccines on the one hand, and we also need to ensure that all these vaccines are administered. You know that our objective is very clear: we want to vaccinate at least 70% of people. I'll show you that in an overview on the next slide. This is a summary that may seem a little overwhelmed, but I will briefly summarize it to you. This is the vaccination strategy that was decided last month, early December. Our task force has consciously taken into account the opinions of the High Health Council, the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics and also what other countries are doing and, of course, all the scientific data available at that time. That has led us to a necessary phasing out for two reasons. The first reason is that at that time we had absolutely no idea which vaccines would be approved. The second reason is that we already knew that they would not be ordinary vaccines, but that they would be delivered in multidoses each time and that there should therefore be additional distribution. There was also the specificity that they had to be kept at -80°Celsius, or as regards the Moderna vaccine, at -20°Celsius. If priorities are to be set, choices must be made. Based on what the High Health Council has advised, we have made the clear choice to reduce disease burden, serious disease and mortality in the first place. The vaccines are also primarily used for this purpose. I believe that Professor Van Damme will deal with a number of other issues, such as transmission, transfer. That led us to give a clear priority at the start to the rest home residents, the rest home staff and as soon as possible all health workers. Firstly, to safeguard the capacity of our health care. You know, of course, that our health professionals have had to make a lot of hard work over the past year and are still ready for our health care every day. Because of the specific processes, we had to make a choice where the vaccines would be thawed. This is done in a number of specifically trained hospitals. There are now about 40, but that number will be increased in the future for the following vaccines. We have also ensured that the distribution in the residential care centres could be optimal. For this the coordinating general practitioner is often very important, and of course also the nurses and the other staff. You have noticed that in the last month we have been able to make a very good start so that we can start effectively at the beginning of January. At the same time, we have prepared phase 1B. Phase 1B is a larger phase. We have already heard some very good news this week in order to start our phase 1B. At that stage, the larger groups will be discussed. First of all, the elderly, the 65-plussers. The principle is: from the highest age down. Risk patients will also have to be dealt with. The Minister has already stressed that the vaccination strategy will be dynamic. The High Health Council is currently studying exactly which risk groups are involved. This will undoubtedly be refined on a number of points. At the same time, there are other things that we will undoubtedly have to clear up. That is why we will be flexible in the next few weeks and months. At that time we will no longer be able to do vaccinations purely from the hospitals or through the other classical channels. Hence, the preparation of more large-scale vaccination centres has already started in recent weeks. You've been able to read something in the press here and there. In itself, that's good. That shows that the preparations are underway. That is not surprising either, because, as the Minister has stressed, our task force is a very good cooperation with all the states, which, of course, are also gradually preparing to put the vaccinations into practice in the short term. I will not go into the second phase today. Phase 2 is the very large-scale vaccination of the healthy younger population. By then, we certainly hope to have quite large quantities of vaccines at our disposal. In December we still had a lot of uncertainties. They're on the next slide. At that time, with all these uncertainties, the task force had to be careful when formulating the opinions. The hand brake had to be applied because since no vaccine had yet been approved, it was very difficult to draw up a timing. Since the end of December, the first vaccine has been happily approved, which was good news. This week the timing of deliveries was also confirmed, very good news for the work of the Task Force. You have undoubtedly heard that the Moderna vaccine has also been approved. For this vaccine we already have an initial assessment of the volume of delivery. The Minister has just explained that we also have a perspective for the supply of additional vaccines from Pfizer. The details of this are still lacking, but it is clear that this will greatly facilitate our strategy. We are now at the stage where we can make a tentative timing. What interests us in the first place is when we can start with a certain group. Once we've started, depending on the numbers, it's pretty predictable how long it'll take. For the first group, we already know that at the moment. At the same time, it is, of course, a question of the availability of vaccines. I would like to stress that we expect that the vaccine of AstraZeneca will also be approved during the month of February. At present, however, this is still a hypothesis and we need to look at its specifications after the vaccine has been approved in order to assess whether or not they have an impact on our strategy. This requires flexibility. If that third vaccine comes in, it will offer additional possibilities. We will then be able to start faster for a number of groups. As far as the place of vaccination is concerned, our philosophy is unchanged. For the residential care centers we have been able to review the planning this week immediately for all Länder on the basis of Pfizer's news. We will be able to start vaccination faster than anticipated, which implies that we will have completed the vaccinations in the resthouses in mid-February. It is very important that we start vaccination of the second important group, the health workers, as soon as possible. I will explain this in more detail in a moment. With the additional possibilities we will also be able to start faster than anticipated, namely at the end of January or early February instead of mid-February. Collective care institutions will also be dealt with more quickly, as there may also be a high risk. I have schematically summarised the implications of the additional elements on which we now have certainty. In the residential care centers people had already started with the residents. As you know, in the first week, it was still careful to vaccinate with serious volumes in all residential care centers next week. The first vaccination and the repetition are planned and we are pretty sure that this will work out well. You will have noticed that vaccination in the field is also carried out as planned. Pilot projects also showed that a sixth dose could be regularly extracted from one vial. Of course we're not gonna let that go. All this will allow us to start inoculating the staff of the residential care centres more quickly and their planning has already started. The security of supply provided by Pfizer and the fact that the Moderna vaccine has also been approved will allow for an accelerated start with the healthcare providers in the hospitals and the first line. The first, although limited, deliveries from Moderna are expected this month. The vaccination of the caregivers will start at the end of this month, early February. I must stress, however, that this will be done on a limited scale in an initial phase, as we do not yet have large quantities of vaccines. The pace will be increased in February, but we still have to be a little careful about the date on which they will all be vaccinated. The following is important for phase 1B. You will not be surprised that these are matters which will obviously require a great deal of effort. We are going to have to rely on a lot of people on the ground for that. As you can see, this is already being worked very strongly from the Länder, with the local authorities. Flanders with the first-line zones, Brussels, Wallonia and the German-speaking Community have begun these preparations. Such a vaccination centre is, of course, just more than just a large hall where people are invited. I just want to remind you of what the chairman said earlier. Of course, safety must also be taken into account in those vaccination centres. The distances must be respected. In principle, therefore, there should be no waiting times. It is also important to ensure that the administrative process and registration are properly carried out in the case of those who are due. The following may also be underlined: it is something that we have already realised. All vaccines currently administered in residential care centres, both for residents and for staff, are systematically registered in Vaccinenet+, for the whole country. That system works very well. It has been rolled out and will really allow us to see how many people have been vaccinated. In addition, each vaccinee will thus have official evidence in minehealth.be, where it can be found. Of course, this must also be done on a large scale for vaccination centres. Professor Dogné already explained, an additional matter to be taken into account after the administration of the vaccine, which is perhaps the most frequent of the whole process, namely the actual injection, is the following. They are safe vaccines, but we remain very careful. After administration there will be a short time to monitor, at least 15 to 20 minutes. You can imagine that this should be explicitly provided for in the organisation, in the construction of those vaccination centres. The blueprint has been hard worked over the last few weeks and it was finalized last night in a first version, with the minimum specifications, i.e. a kind of criteria or standards that these centres must meet. As an illustration, I have brought along some of these examples. These are random illustrations, because there are still, but these may be the ones that speak most of the imagination. This one belongs to Dr. Jan Stroobants, with a lot of others. They have developed a test village and are now fully ready to start a vaccination centre. I would like to stress that it is a large-scale vaccination centre. The next slide shows what is currently in the scaffolding. In principle, this will have a lead time of a few weeks, with of course further installation. You can imagine that it comes to a place where there must be enough parking so that it can be safe. Preferably there should also be public transport nearby. You have already noticed that in many places the local authorities are also looking for the best locations and making decisions. The task force can only encourage that. We think that is an excellent thing. The next slide shows the project at the Heizel. Here, just like in Antwerp, even though the concepts may be slightly different, one speaks of a kind of streets or lines. That is very important, because in this way we prevent people from coming together too much and ensure that distances can be kept. We have already made the first calculations. We assume that 20, 25 to 30 vaccinations per hour can be administered in such a street. We think that this should have a scale again, it should be able to contain at least 6 parallel lines. We also assume, given the importance of the centres, that 7 days out of 7 will be vaccinated there. It is clear that we are making a lot of calculations. We have already started over the last few weeks, together with the Länder, with a simulation of the number of vaccination centres. I would just like to stress that we have taken a rather conservative approach here. That's a conscious choice. There's still the possibility of upscaling. We have calculated that an upscaling is possible should we have additional capacity at some point and should we be able to process the vaccines even faster. If, on the basis of our assessments and our simulations, we also take into account the foreign experience, we have good contacts, there must be at least 100 to 150 and ideally 200 vaccination centres in Belgium. That seems realistic to us too. It could be said that they need to become even more large-scale centres and there will undoubtedly be differences. But if the centres, where many people are going, become too large-scale, the distance will become too large and there will potentially be a threshold. So we have struck a balance between proximity and yet organisational efficiency. On the basis of all the elements that we already know and which will undoubtedly require further adjustments in the coming weeks and months, we estimate that, if we can put the 200 centres into practice, we should have been able to complete the vaccination campaign after the summer, towards September. Of course, that 70% is very important. In our first experience with residential care centres and staff, this is absolutely very high. That is a very good thing. We expect that also health professionals will have a particularly high level of compliency. These, of course, are also very important ambassadors in our further roll-out. It is clear that communication and motivation will also require a separate approach at every stage of our strategy. That is certainly our assessment on the basis of the current data. If further positive elements emerge in the coming weeks and months, we will certainly adapt our strategy to this need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u6	Mr President, I am Pierre Van Damme, a member of the University of Antwerp. I'm running the vaccination evaluation center. I teach epidemiology and vaccineology. I am the director of the reference centre for infectious diseases, epidemiology and prevention of the WHO, Europe region. We have selected a number of technical topics with the task force, which, of course, are currently circulating rather strongly, not only in the scientific discussions but also at the level of foreign task forces and at the level of public health. One of these topics is: do we know anything about vaccination and the role in the infection? If one is vaccinated, can one still pass on the virus? There are no published data on this. There are also no publicly available data on studies that have already been completed. The companies are investigating this with their respective products. At present, we cannot say that we have arguments to support or exclude that. So it stays open. It is, of course, a very important element for the principle of group immunity and the principle of vaccination of certain target groups exposed to an increased risk. We do expect that we will soon receive news about this, in a period of about two months. We were promised that by the producers. Animal testing with these candidate vaccines shows that vaccination has an impact on the level of presence of the virus in the nasal mucous membranes. This is a promising element, but it cannot be confirmed by human research at the moment. Are there data in children and pregnant people? You have heard from Jean-Michel Dogné that there are no data at the moment, but those studies are ongoing. The companies have also submitted a paediatric investigational plan to the European regulatory authorities in order to carry out studies in younger age groups. They also set up studies in pregnant women. At present, we do not recommend the vaccination of pregnant women, also on the basis of the European regulatory authorities. Belgium has taken over. We are waiting for more information on the studies being carried out. Then I move on to the next slide on a much discussed topic, the delay of the second dose. Why is that so much discussed now? It illustrates that many countries in the world are looking for alternatives to be able to vaccinate as much of the population as possible, with the vaccines available. Certain countries are already taking that step. I think we should explain to the general public why we do not and certain other countries do. You will see that the United Kingdom allows you to leave 12 weeks between vaccines, both for AstraZeneca vaccine and Pfizer vaccine. The United States takes as a maximum 42 days for the Pfizer vaccine, which is also possible, because these data are in the package leaflet. The WHO, the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts, also goes up to 42 days, but in certain circumstances. You may have heard the same thing, but in the meantime Denmark is also considering what can be done to postpone the second dose. France is also looking at this, purely and simply to be able to start up more people. Canadian provinces also think in that direction. What's important about that? We continue to lean on the European recommendation. It is also on Europe's agenda to follow this up further. I think we should also gather the scientific evidence for this. That is not so obvious, you also see in the slide what I have to say there with a question mark. First of all, what can we do? We can monitor what happens in the countries that give a second dose later. What happens, for example, with breakthrough infections? Are there or aren't there? That's very important to follow up on. The United Kingdom is following that, so is Canada. These are certainly important lessons learned for other countries. From the products of vaccines we have no feedback yet to what extent they will follow cohorts that have only received one dose. What is interesting is that we are trying to set up a number of studies ourselves. England will do the same now. We are in contact with the knowledge centre and, of course, with the producers in order to be able to obtain vaccines in order to launch such studies. Hence the question mark. The question hasn't been answered yet. It may also be that it is not so obvious to get vaccines to set up such studies. If we examine longer intervals of study-by-study, this will also be done in cooperation with some other European countries in order to obtain an answer as soon as possible. Another illustration is that in the United States, for example, the use of a lower dose, even half a dose of the mRNA vaccine, is being looked at, again with the aim of being able to vaccinate more people with the existing capacity for a first time. Of course, we understand this urgency perfectly. After all, we want to get out of the virus as quickly as possible. This urgency also has to do with the presence of a number of variants, not only the variant from the United Kingdom, which is already present in more than 40 countries, but also the South African variant. There is therefore a need to protect the population as quickly as possible. Intradermal administration is another scientific route. I would just like to mention it, but above all I would like to stress that Belgium's plans do not change. Everything you have seen in the calculation takes into account the administration on time of the second dose. The next slide concerns a question that was asked not only here, but also abroad. The recommendation is very clear there. The question is whether we should not select people who have been through COVID-19 and screen and filter them first and only administer the vaccine to people who are COVID-19 negative. This has been looked at by many health authorities in Europe and also by the CDC in the United States. That would mean that we would also have to do a test throughout that design. Firstly, logistics is very difficult and, secondly, from the Moderna and Pfizer Phase 3 study, in which COOVID-19-positive people have also participated, we learn that they have a similar safety profile to those who are COOVID-19-negative. In terms of efficacy, this is particularly similar, which is also not insignificant. In the meantime, we also know that the natural infection does not provide long-term protection, as we are seeing recontaminations. So these are all reasons to decide that we want to vaccinate those people in the same movement. Perhaps this is after discussion with immunologists and vaccineologists, and after further investigation they are given a booster, a kind of repeat effect of their immunity against the infection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u7	First of all, I would like to thank the task force for working very hard and intensively there, together with the representatives of the Regions and the Communities. If I can summarize it in one message: if this succeeds, it means that we can also start to vaccinate young people before the summer. That is extremely welcome news, ladies and gentlemen. If it succeeds deliberately, we can say that we are really starting to vaccinate the group that was afraid of coming all the way behind, the young people, before the summer and that the realm of freedom is once again in sight. That is fantastic good news and that is thanks to science, thanks to solidarity, thanks to organisation, thanks to cooperation with our colleagues in the regions and communities. However, I would like to stress that cooperation is going very well. Mr Wouter Beke has also sent out a press release in parallel in which he specifies a number of things, which are perfectly in line with the schedule. He thus confirms what already appeared in the press, that one would opt for 120 vaccination centres in Flanders, two per first-line zone, in cooperation with the local authorities as well. That fits perfectly with the figures given here. He also gives a number of details on the order, where the concern in Flanders is that the people in the collective care institutions should not be able to deal with the residential care centres, but with the other collective care institutions. That's one of the concerns people have there. Let's just say it's all good. Let me stress once again that it is the task of the task force to remain very agile and flexible. We will undoubtedly receive additional news about supplies of vaccines. Hopefully we will only get good news and not bad news, but the task force will, of course, have to constantly change the concrete schedule. I believe, Mr President, that you have received a great deal of answers in the speech and that perhaps we should proceed immediately to further questions. Mr President, I believe that many questions have been answered. I am thinking in particular of Mr Pierre Van Damme's last slide, which, I believe, answers a question from Mrs Fonck about what to do with those who have been contaminated, etc. Some answers have therefore already been given, even if the debate is not closed. Information was also provided on the number of doses. So I'm not going back. Therefore, Mr President, I propose to open the debate immediately and to see how we can best answer the questions asked. But, as I have just said, we can now rejoice at a truly perfect collaboration with the Regions and the Communities. In addition, one of the key messages concerns young people who were afraid of being the last. Today, they can be told that the vaccination campaign for young people can begin before the summer. The hope of regaining freedom and a normal life is reborn for young people as well. Mr President, I thank the Task Force and I propose to start the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u8	Minister, thank you for that answer. I would like to return briefly to the beginning of the meeting. I hear there is a mixture of dissatisfaction and disappointment with the fact that journalists and collaborators have been asked to leave the room. We were about forty for a room that can hold twenty-four people. We chose to keep the cameramen. I hope everyone can understand this choice. I also understand the disappointment, but making that decision was necessary. We are now twenty-four in the room. I thank the Minister and the members of the Task Force for their explanations. We still have an hour and a quarter. I propose the following working method. I will give each group a three-minute speaking time. I propose that there be one speaker per group for additional questions or remarks. If other Members wish to speak for certain political groups, I can also give them the floor. Then, hoping that it will be possible to respect this, the minister and the members of the task force will have a quarter of an hour to respond and, finally, I plan a minute of reply per group. Unfortunately, we cannot do more because the meeting is to be concluded at 1.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u9	Mr President, Professors, Minister, you should come to the press more often, because then you will bring good news! It is very positive what you come here to say, that our youth finally gets a perspective on a vaccine for the summer, a summer with perhaps a festival meadow. You bring here a very nice presentation, at last clear, but you fully confirm that you were not finished on 5 January and that the bet you made at The Seventh Day was not made at all. That's too bad, isn't it? Bearing in mind today's good news, I would like to return to our delay of at least two weeks on the other European countries and that we still had to practice in the month of December and the first week of January. I still can't understand that. Let's move on to the positive flow. You bring the good news that you will be able to purchase more vaccines from Pfizer through the European tender. So the pressure of politicians has certainly helped, and I think that is absolutely a good thing. I'd like to talk to you about the timing of those deliveries. You say that you will not go into that, but that timetable is very important. Will we also be served proportionally in our country in terms of time? This applies to both Pfizer and Moderrna vaccines. An analysis of Goldman Sachs suggests that scaling up the vaccination rate in our country requires four things: more vaccines, more vaccinators, the vaccinators and patients closer and a good registration. More vaccines, you just announced. I haven't heard much about any more vaccinators. We have passed a law that will allow more vaccinators to come, but will they be there? Are they trained? Has anyone asked if all the doctors are willing to participate in that vaccination? In other words, will we have enough? Nor have I heard exactly how you will vaccinate the primary care providers. I understand there's still a discussion about that. Will this happen in hospitals, or will the first-line zones take care of it? As far as registration is concerned, you referred to Vaccine Network. I see a problem there. Vaccine network is not automatically linked to the GMD or GFD, the global medical file or the global pharmaceutical file. So one has to look through a detour. The follow-up will be very important for the general practitioner and the house pharmacist, which you yourself have indicated. So to follow up the patients, that's gonna matter. I now come to another remark on the registration. Why didn't you bring the unique barcode? Why didn't you bring the bottle that ends up with which patient, to track it later, in case something goes wrong or there's a side effect? Finally, Minister, I would have liked to have been given an explanation of the standards. How come you say that we would have different standards than other European countries? Is that right or is that wrong? You didn't say that, but someone from your government did. Do you have any scientific evidence to support that statement? Is this about other vaccines? Is it a different route of administration? Are we doing so much better than the other European Member States? Mr President, I have one final point. Professor Ramaekers referred to the sixth dose. Has its use been approved by the EEA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the experts for their very thorough explanation of what has changed and how we will deal with vaccinations. However, I do have a number of additional questions. Firstly, we all fear, but hope that this will not happen, that there will be a third wave. We see that happening in the United Kingdom. Has that been taken into account? Where appropriate, we need a lot of care staff to take care of the sick patients. Can we take care of that if the third wave comes? Secondly, you say that everything has started slowly, because we depended on the approval of the EEA and on deliveries. The same applies, however, to the other European countries. How do you react to the criticism that we are being too slow? Thirdly, you note that when we will vaccinate massively, possible side effects will be monitored for 15 to 20 minutes. The CDC considers that it takes 30 minutes to do so. Is it feasible for you to keep pace and monitor it up to 30 minutes and beyond? There are all kinds of theories about possible side effects. I'm assuming they're all being properly investigated. Who, however, is the point of contact after that? Is that gonna go to the GP? Are they prepared for that? Are the possible adverse reactions also recorded in the context of long-term studies? Fourthly, you assume that seven days in seven will be vaccinated when we go to the stage of mass vaccination. Do people have to go to the vaccination centre very specifically when they are invited? What about people's work? Are the vaccinations going through at night? Have you thought about that? If we want to get the figures, we really have to keep pace. We will also need a lot of hands. Has anyone thought about who can and can vaccinate? What about the pharmacists and the vaccines, which will be trained by the end of April 2021 and another batch by the end of June 2021? Are they gonna be deployed? Has anyone thought about that? The vaccination villages should be operational by the end of March 2021. I hear from Germany that such a village needs at least eight to nine weeks of construction time. Were there really retro-planning? After all, if I count back eight to nine weeks from the end of March 2021, we really have to start now. I sense your optimism, that I share. However, I hope that there will be retro-planning about when the first construction should begin. Mrs Depoorter also referred to the five doses. Seven doses appear to be achieved in the United States. Is it feasible to do that here too? Finally, what happens to vulnerable target groups? What happens to the people who don't have a national registry number? What about asylum seekers? Where are they in the vaccination strategy? We have heard from World Doctors that it was very difficult to have these people tested in the first wave because they simply do not have a national registry number. Where are they in the test strategy? Is sufficient account taken of the people for whom this is not very self-evident? Mr President, I hope I have stayed within the time. I don't see the clock from here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u11	Mrs Creemers, you have exceeded the speaking time by 20 seconds, which is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u12	Mr President, first of all, I want to say that it was really worth waiting for Friday to benefit from this presentation, which brings a lot of clarification in a debate. This one, and it is quite normal, has been very passionate and passionate for many weeks. Indeed, it affects everyone's well-being. He is passionate and passionate about politics and society, because we are exhausted, because we want to live again, and we also need economic recovery and new hopes. Today, I welcome this presentation, which demonstrates the interest and importance of having a task force that coordinates the actions of the various entities. We have a pilot. In view of what I have just seen, the situation seems to be under control. It also says: it will be necessary to be able to adapt and be flexible, in the light of our new experiences and developments in the situation. I would like to say that we also needed to have this important information on phase in particular today. As far as phase is concerned, we are in phase 1, with priorities. These are linked to vulnerability, as we have mentioned. A strategy is being implemented. This phase 1 will be able to accelerate thanks to the new vaccine. You also mentioned the possibility of starting the vaccination of health care workers more quickly. This is essential. We can't ask our health care staff to be at the front without protection. You mentioned the fact that this would take place earlier. How long will this vaccination last, so that all health care workers are protected? Have you considered phasing at the level of caregivers, depending on the age and possible vulnerabilities of their members? Some may be more exposed than others. At the level of phase 1B, the challenge is the vaccination centres. I know that the issue is linked to the federated entities. It is of course important that these centres have a guaranteed geographical distribution and that all have access to them. How will you organize this in practice, so that this representativeness is present? You're talking about 200 centers at first. Are you considering creating buffer centres, i.e. a reserve capacity, in case the parameters allow us to move faster? This could be the case, for example, if we received more vaccines. The faster we vaccinate, the faster we find a normal life, the better we're all protected. Some vaccines are seen to be easier to administer than others. Are you considering a distribution between vaccination centres that takes into account the ease of administration and the maintenance of the vaccine in good conditions, including the refrigeration of doses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u13	Mr. Rigot, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u14	Mr President, for once I am longer, you will not blame me! I would just like to conclude by saying that hope for young people is present. Finally, have any problems been raised since the implementation of vaccination, i.e. since 5 January, at the logistical level? If so, what steps have been taken to correct these launch problems, which can occur, as in everyone's case, at the start-up stage? I guess there's been some. What solutions have been put in place? I'll come back to the second round. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I have a few more questions. My first question is about vaccination of expats. Will vaccination also be offered to expats, and by extension to compatriots who may or may not be temporarily staying abroad? If so, how will this work in practice? Will this happen, for example, through the embassy in the country in question, or should the expats return to our country for that? Will you be subject to any conditions? Will the vaccine also be offered to them free of charge? My question No. In fact, I asked you and the Prime Minister yesterday during Question Time in plenary, but neither of you could or wanted to reply. This question concerns the potential pressure exerted by France to order fewer vaccines at BioNTech, in order to safeguard French interests. From your introduction I understand that an additional order will still be placed at BioNTech. Can you explain that unfresh story, released by Der Spiegel last year? I am really looking forward to that. My third question is about the case of Tristan, about who does the story mainly through social media. Tristan is a young twentiest with a muscle disease and on top of that another lung disease. Because of this lung disease, he is de facto sentenced to hospitalization when he is affected by one for most of our banal respiratory infection. An infection with COVID-19, a corona infection, would be disastrous for him, I probably don't have to explain. I thought it was the intention to vaccinate the most vulnerable groups first, at least according to what I saw the Prime Minister's health advisor declare on social media. From all the speeches made in this Committee on Health, too, I think I can understand that. Maybe I don't understand the vaccination strategy too well or I missed something. Can you explain to me whether, and if so why, Tristan and many other lung patients, for example people with muco, will be vaccinated in the same batch as fully healthy 20s? I believe that Tristan's vulnerability has nothing to do with his age. His vulnerability, and his peers' vulnerability, has everything to do with their illness. Mr President, I see that I have only half a minute left, so I have remained within the speaking time allotted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u16	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u17	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Task Force and the Minister for the very interesting explanations and information they have given. I am pleased that caregivers can be vaccinated earlier than expected, for two reasons. The first is ethical. Indeed, when people are sent to combat or to the front, it is normal for them to be given the best possible protection. The second is more utilitarian. It is necessary, if we are to deal with a third wave or a deterioration of the situation resulting, for example, from the mutation of the virus, to have a very strong capacity within our hospitals as well as in the front line. All caregivers must be available. Vaccinating caregivers as quickly as possible is, therefore, essential to me. This brings me to the question of places of vaccination. If this vaccination campaign is to succeed, the membership rate and confidence must be important. In my view, proximity is essential in order to gain public support and build a climate of trust. It is therefore necessary to avoid having completely dehumanized vaccination centres and to ensure that generalists as well as the mayors and local authorities are included in the determination of vaccination sites so that people can be vaccinated close to home and in communication with their treating physician who can help them pass through and get vaccinated. I stress that vaccination is a medical act and that, in doing so, general practitioners must be more involved, particularly in terms of information. Today, they receive a lot of questions from their patients, and sometimes they find it difficult to answer them. We really need to involve them urgently in consultation with the federated entities, of course. I would now like to address the issue of people at risk between the ages of 45 and 60. The determination of co-morbidities requires respect for medical confidentiality and respect for privacy. It will therefore be necessary to pay close attention to the way in which these persons are to be dealt with. Sometimes I hear we're gonna cross databases. The Orwellian system scares me a little bit. We need to be very clear about the privacy of everyone. I will conclude my speech by saying that if we want to have a collective immunization rate, we need to reach 70% vaccination. If we count the children who are not involved in this vaccination campaign, more or less 6 million people must be vaccinated in our country. In my view, there is a gap between the figures quoted and the achievement, as soon as possible, of collective immunization. I would therefore like to have some clarification on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u18	Mr President, Minister, Professors, I think we have heard a lot of positive things. It is good that there is light at the end of the tunnel for young people, which is really a step forward. I have also heard that the location of vaccine centres is really being monitored, which is very important, as the most vulnerable population needs public transport and we need to be sure that all people get there. I have a few more questions. Today there is certainty about the weekly vaccination delivery of 80,000 doses. I wonder how the pace can be maintained if we do not have enough hands to administer vaccinations. A while ago, we passed a law to ensure that there were sufficient hands. I was informed that 750 pharmacists were trained by April and that a second group of 750 pharmacists completed their training in June, allowing 1,500 people to be added to our vaccination strategy. Is that what you're looking at? What are your insights about that? My second question concerns the first stage of vaccination and the fact that vulnerable people are given priority. I fully follow the view that we must protect the elderly and show solidarity. Today we focus mainly on residential care centres. I wonder about other institutions, where I am thinking of psychiatric centres or collective cohabitation organisations. Are such institutions included in the first phase, or are they only dealt with in the second phase? People suffering from mental illness, I personally see them as vulnerable populations, hence the question. Finally, we cannot require vaccination, but we can carry out checks on quarantine rules for enforcement if necessary. How exactly will the population be called up? How will the second injection be given within four weeks? Could you give us more details about this organisation so that we can be reassured? Dear professors, thank you in any case for your work and for the explanations you have given today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, gentlemen, thank you very much for the explanations. First of all, there is one point that I have not quite grasped in the presentation. You said you were going to present us today with an accelerated vaccination plan. However, the slides you have shown are largely the same as those we saw with the task force on 1 December, concerning the phases. Could you be clearer? At the beginning of the week, we found – and we still see it this day – that we are among the lowest rates of injection of the first dose, compared to the number of inhabitants. You showed us a plan in phases, but a small asterisk specified "under confirmation of deliveries". This may be difficult to confirm until authorisation has been given, but as far as Pfizer is concerned, do we now have all the guarantees? Can we not go towards acceleration and vaccinate more people faster with the doses we are assured to receive? I still feel a certain conservatism in the explanations. I've had doctors on the phone who administered the vaccine in nursing homes this week. It seems that it is very easy to have six doses instead of five in the vial. We could even go up to seven doses. When I calculate, that means we could have vaccinated 4,300 people in addition to the 23,000 doses given this week. On the other hand, there's something I don't understand. You said, "We were careful, we wanted to test." But at the time of testing, did you not find that six doses could be easily taken instead of five in the Pfizer vial? Have the recommendations adapted? Why weren't they? To my knowledge, additional doses have been discarded, for example, in occupational medicine. Other physicians have taken the initiative to administer these additional doses. From tomorrow, will we vaccinate by pulling six doses instead of five? The same applies to the possibility of post-vaccination of people with fairly high levels of antibodies. We are told that logistically, it is difficult. Today, however, proposing that people who have been affected by the covid take a blood test quickly to check their antibody levels is not so complicated. Why not explore these tracks further? As for the 42-day delay, if today's Pfizer package leaflet already provides that we could have this delay between the two doses, why don't we? I did not have an answer to that question, apart from the fact that we do not. Here too, I stay a little on my hunger. Finally, you showed some photos of vaccination centers. But in Germany they are already built. We know that there are a lot of people at risk. I am thinking, for example, of people over the age of 75 living at home, who should still be able to be vaccinated quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u20	Mrs. Merckx, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u21	How will we identify risk groups? All this remains very vague. Is it not risky to carry out tests and vaccinations in the same centres? The third wave is here. Is the vaccine effective against the new variant? I didn't have any explanation for that either. I'll stick to that. I had more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u22	I'm sorry, but time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u23	Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the task force, thank you for the very comprehensive explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u24	My last question is actually similar to an earlier question on expats, it deals with the problem of frontier workers. I myself live close to the Dutch border. There are quite a few Belgians who live in the Netherlands, but work in Belgium. They seem to have received the message in the Netherlands that they are not eligible for a vaccine there, because they are not covered by Dutch health insurance. They asked me what that means for them: are they eligible for a vaccine as a Belgian worker or a Belgian insured person? There has, of course, been a lot to do about the vaccination strategy in recent days. You yourself have noticed that, and that is also logical: anyone who wants to be vaccinated is really looking forward to that vaccine, because they hope to be able to resume normal life very quickly. This also means, of course, that a lot of people are considering whether the strategy and priorities they have chosen are the right ones. I think that these are logical choices, and I certainly support them, but the only thing I agree with is the concern of the risk patients under 45 years of age. Just now Tristan was mentioned, by chance someone I know personally and whom I spoke on the phone not so long ago. That is someone who is very eager to live and who also likes to come among people, but who also has to hold back a bit in other, non-covid periods and be careful. He does, of course, feel double affected by what is currently going on. He puts a lot of hope on the vaccine, but the reports he received that the -45-year-olds would only be eligible at a later stage, with the rest of the population, give him cause for concern. I asked you about this a few weeks ago, and you indicated to me, Minister, that you would certainly look into it, so I remain hopeful about it. Another aspect of vaccination is the news that we can switch a gear higher. This is very good news and is also due to the efforts that have been made from Flanders to ensure that vaccinations can be carried out more quickly in the vaccination centres they want to start. The message from Pfizer that we can act faster is certainly good news. I was also wondering if there were enough vaccines. I am confident about the deliveries, but I hope that there will also be sufficient staff support to ensure that the vaccinations are completed. Can you clarify the possible risks for six vaccines from one ampoule instead of the recommended five? That too has been something to do about it. The debate on whether or not to postpone a second dose also rages. Some countries postpone that second dose. Pfizer has made it very clear that they could not be held responsible if they were delayed. If there were scientific evidence that a single dose could be done, what would that mean for Pfizer's responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u25	Mr Minister, Professors, thank you very much for the hard work, but above all for the very positive and clear presentation. Most of my questions have been answered. Someone said we're going to a vaccination rate of 7 days to 7. Recently, the administrator-general of the Flemish Agency for Healthcare and Health said that this would be particularly difficult. He advocated vaccination during office hours. How exactly are we going to proceed? Can you confirm that there will be around 200 vaccination centres in Belgium, 120 of them in Flanders? After that, I wanted to ask about the same question as Mr De Caluwe. Will the expats from outside Europe be vaccinated at their embassies? Is that where contacts are being made? In what way will this work? Do they have to come back for the vaccination? Just now I received the message that the pharmacists will train 750 people twice to vaccinate. Which groups will we go with in that way? Hopefully there won't be a third wave, but if it does, can this be consistent with this timing? What happens then?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u26	Mr President, I thank the members of the Task Force for their various interventions and the scientific elements provided. Mr Minister, we finally have a commitment that everyone can be vaccinated for the summer, just like the announcements already made and the commitments already made by the other countries! It's just obvious. First of all, I will take stock of logistics and operations, which will also make vaccination a success. I am surprised that the various governments have not yet clearly planned all the logistics. I hear there are still simulations on the vaccination centres, when it's been months that we've been talking about vaccines. There will be a need for a specific, costed plan, including the human resources component, as there is a need for sufficient vaccine providers. I believe that many doctors and nurses are ready to go back to the field, especially on the weekend. I hope that this issue will be resolved quickly. You are planning vaccination centres. Is it not equally important to have mobile teams, especially for people in difficulty. Our goal must be to increase collective immunity as quickly as possible. To do this, it is vital to speed up vaccination. When few doses are available, it is crucial to be able to use each dose as efficiently as possible. For the past few days, I have been making a series of proposals on which I would like to come back. I still can't understand why we keep storing tens of thousands of doses in freezers. This week, only 22,000 doses were injected, while 83,000 doses were injected. Why can't they be used quickly for caregivers? Why not start vaccination of caregivers, who are at high risk, from hospitals? Yesterday, I went to a nursing home as a volunteer physician to help and support the vaccination campaign. I immediately realized that we had at least six doses per vial, or even a seventh dose for some vials. The protocols only provide for five doses. I therefore call on governments to change the protocols as a matter of urgency. We must allow tomorrow to use the six doses of the vaccine. The account is very clear. Over the past two weeks, unfortunately, more than 4,000 doses have been discarded that could have been injected. And not using a magic syringe. It is a syringe that has been used since the dawn of time and is obviously suitable for the amount to be taken. It's a tuberculin syringe. This is presented as a magic syringe. However, Minister, this syringe has been in existence for decades. You don't take a bucket for three drops. A small, suitable syringe is taken when 0.3 ml is to be injected. As for taking into account the immunity already acquired, the November data of the blood donors are available. We know that in nursing homes, this level of immunity is very important. Yes, it is a logistical challenge, but Belgium is able to do so and that would allow us to achieve collective immunity much faster. A new study that came out yesterday shows that acquired antibodies protect for at least eight months. This does not mean that these people will not be vaccinated, but that they will be vaccinated in a second phase. I would also like to hear from you about the second dose that could be applied to 42 days, thus speeding up vaccination. The French Medicine Agency issued a report yesterday which provides additional information. Accelerating vaccination also helps to vaccinate at-risk caregivers more quickly. That was planned. That had been said. Today, they feel set aside. Vaccination can be carried out in parallel with vaccinations in nursing homes. I therefore ask you, minister, to look into the matter. Finally, you have decided to order additional doses of vaccine. Good if we can get it. But why are we not planning to increase our production capacity in Belgium, by allowing an extension to the Pfizer plant in Puurs or by working in collaboration with another pharmaceutical site?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u27	Mrs Fonck, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u28	Mr. President, I'm finishing. I would just like to point out that we have extremely relevant and strong pharmaceutical sites in Belgium. This is a trail that has not been explored and could be explored. Finally, Minister, I ask you to be transparent and to allow public access to all data. I am thinking here of the number of doses received and the number of doses injected. Let us avoid the opacity that was of the beginning of the crisis with the tests and let us be transparent. That seems to me to be logical and important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your very enlightening and ultimately hopeful briefing. We really needed it after all these months of crisis. I also thank you for insisting on good collaboration with the federated entities. It is known how important this good collaboration is as jurisdictions fall within the federal and other federal entities. As MPs who controlled the government's action, but also for the public, it was important to see more clearly because there were still a lot of questions. As far as priority groups are concerned, it is now known that health care workers will be able to be vaccinated between the end of January and mid-February. In this respect, things are not very clear, since I understand that we will have to wait for vaccination to be completed in nursing and nursing homes, but that vaccination of health care personnel could start at the end of January. I would therefore like to have more details on this. You chose to follow the advice of the Bioethics Advisory Committee that vaccination should begin in nursing homes. Nevertheless, opinions were moving in a different direction and intended to give priority to caregivers. I am thinking here of the Supreme Council of Health and the WHO. How did you choose between these different opinions? I understand the ethical reason. But, Minister, in plenary, you justified this choice on logistical grounds. However, on the RTBF, Mr Englert explained on Wednesday that under no circumstances could this choice be justified other than by an ethical reason. I would therefore like clarification on this point. I think it's impossible to make a choice between nursing staff, whether they work in nursing homes or hospitals, and residents of nursing homes. There will indeed be a need to prioritize health workers. There are nearly 560,000 caregivers in our country. France, for example, made the choice to vaccinate first caregivers over 50 years of age. Is there any reflection in Belgium on this matter? I think the same way about the so-called economically and socially essential functions. Here too, we are faced with a very broad category of the population. Arbitrations will have to be made, whether we like it or not. Is there also a reflection within the task force? I have a lot of questions about logistics. Can you tell us more about the potential shortages of vials, syringes and dry ice? It is well known that the companies competent in this field are extremely solicited, both by our country and by other States. As far as vaccination centres are concerned, I am reassured that a real reflection has taken place. But we must be careful and note that the establishment of these centres is on the go. I hear that this is in particular to meet a need for balance. Large-scale vaccinations must be carried out, but at the same time the physical distance in these centres must be respected. Is it based, for example, on Germany, where these centres have been in existence for more than a month now? Who's going to vaccinate? Indeed, as a result of your famous act of delegating nurses to non-nursing personnel, you have passed a royal decree that allows people who are neither nurses nor doctors to do so. But what is the doctor's position on this? It is recalled that in 2016, for example, physicians were reluctant to have nurses vaccinated in the absence of physicians. I think the doctors' opinion is important in this regard. If I have to choose a subject to close, Mr President, I, like my colleagues, must insist on transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u30	You actually have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u31	Today, there is no data on the Sciensano site as to who is said to have been vaccinated, how many doses are distributed, and how much is geographically distributed among Regions. It is important to establish vaccination justice between regions. Please take care of the transparency on this. In particular, this will enable the population to join vaccination and thus collaborate on the famous 70 per cent vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u32	All the groups have spoken. If any of the members present still wish to speak, they can do so briefly now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers. I still have a few specific questions. We aim for a vaccination rate of 70%. What exactly does that mean? Is that 70 percent of the 18-plussers or 70 percent of the entire population? In the vaccination strategy we are not talking about the -18-year-olds. What does that mean when we reach that 70 percent? Can society then be fully open again? What do we do with the surplus vaccine? I assume, after all, that if deliveries are all carried out as planned and expected, we will be left with surpluses. Shall we still look at the -18-year-olds when the studies are available? As for the comorbidity, there is talk of the 45-plussers. What about the young people with comorbidity? Which diseases are we talking about? After all, the WHO says that it depends on the regions which diseases are included in that list. How will we track these people down and reach them? Finally, the event sector is eager to assist in organising the mass vaccinations. Has that sector been addressed yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the professors present for the very interesting and clear explanation. As colleagues have said, it was necessary to be so clearly informed. I have a few more questions. The EU is always being screened and the fact that group buying has gone so fantasticly well, yet there appears to be serious cracks in this fairy tale. My colleague Creyelman referred to it earlier. The Minister said in a previous committee that vaccines would be distributed proportionally among the Member States. Is that so? Are they gonna get to everything as fast as they can? We can see, for example, that almost 46,000 people were vaccinated in Denmark before 4 January, while we were still waiting for the vaccines. We have all put our eggs in the EU basket, but how do these vaccines get to us? Does that happen at the same time across Europe? As for the extra vaccines, Germany has placed an extra order. Is that what we're doing? There are now two approved vaccines, which we hope will be effective, but if it turns out that one of the following vaccines is not working so well, we will have to focus on the better vaccines. Shall we still order it? In committee, I had already asked a question about immunity, but I did not receive an answer. It's about the antibodies that people who went through COVID-19 have. However, we do not yet know how long the vaccine will be effective. If the vaccines that have been ordered have been used up and we may have to vaccinate again next year, when will these orders be placed? When will this be discussed, or has it already been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u35	Mrs. Sneppe, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u36	I will try, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u37	Yeah, you're gonna have to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u38	A third wave has already been mentioned. In this case too, a professor said that the forest fire can already be smelled. Is there therefore an urgent need for the care staff to be vaccinated in the first place? I also hope that the event sector will be involved in the implementation of the vaccination villages. I also have a question about the needles. Minister, you had urged us that they were ordered and will be delivered, but we have seen a lot happening in the coronadebacle. I would therefore like to ask whether we will have enough syringes to put the vaccines in place. And then...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u39	Quickly, please, Mrs. Sneppe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u40	Very soon, Mr President. You also said, Minister, that we are on the European train and we must ensure that we stay on it. I think, however, that we must above all ensure that we are on the train. However, we have seen in the corona crisis that we usually miss the train. If the train is on time and arrives, Belgium usually still has to look at the time schedule, so I hope we can put that mentality behind us and ensure that we are on the right train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u41	Mrs Depoorter, very briefly, because you have already been given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u42	Very briefly. My colleague had 40 seconds left and I will certainly not use them. I have two more invoicing questions. First of all, is there enough adrenaline and EpiPen provided for the emergency trousses? Can you confirm that? Secondly, will the concerns of the Data Protection Authority be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u43	Minister, you will have the floor for 15 minutes, for everyone together, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u44	Allow me to follow up on Mrs Rohonyi's remarks. This is a social debate and therefore an ethical debate. All the choices made therefore have a fundamental ethical dimension. But ethics also means taking into account aspects of logistics and availability. That's all the reasoning! There are medical, epidemiological and logistical arguments, which, for example, combine the staff of nursing and nursing homes with the residents of these homes. That's a reason for logistical efficiency. But of course, all the choices that are made involve a social debate, a debate on solidarity, adherence and the ethical justification of our decisions. So I agree perfectly with what Mr Englert said. Mr President, I would like to address a few more institutional questions very quickly. Everything that has to do with the choices in the vaccination campaign I immediately forward to the experts. The most important institutional question is, of course, what we think about European cooperation. Mr Creyelman has asked me to go into dirty histories in Der Spiegel. By definition, I won't. What I think is that for a small country like Belgium, European cooperation is incredibly beneficial. We must be on that train, that is our deep conviction. This means that we have the opportunity to always get our fair share of what the different companies want to deliver to Europe. That doesn't mean we always take it. Let me give you an example. I would just like to correct a slight typo in the presentation, if the task force does not blame me. At Curevac we did not order 5 million but 2.9 million vaccines. We did not take the full 5 million vaccines we could have taken from Curevac and we had arguments for that. That doesn't change anything else on the schedule, I've been told. That's a typo in the presentation. Mrs Merckx, we did this because the characteristics of the vaccine, as it was in the folders at the time it was discussed, did not convince us to order 5 million of it. We have placed a very large order in quantitative terms. With regard to Pfizer/BioNTech, which Mrs von der Leyen announces today, it is extremely good news, because it is very likely that it will also open up the possibility not at the end of the campaign but already in an earlier phase of the campaign, do not ask me for details because I do not have them yet, anymore on Pfizer/BioNTech. We will take advantage of the opportunities offered by the European train. What exactly does that look like, what choices are made exactly, what rhythm, what consultations are under way, and that has to be cleared up. You won't blame me for not improvising on that now. The European train is an opportunity for us. We can always quit there and ask for our fair share. We do that when we think it's necessary. Mrs Gijbels had an interesting question about this. What if you have too much? No doubt the professors will answer the question about young people under the age of 18? When will they be discussed and under what conditions? I'll leave that question to the experts. Mrs Gijbels, it is possible that at some point we may get to a point where we think we can do something for countries that are poorer than our country, because we may be left with stocks that we cannot use. At that time, we can extend our solidarity to countries less developed than we are and for which we can do something. First of all, of course, we will have to roll out our own vaccination campaign well. Mr De Caluwé and Mr Creyelman and Mrs Jiroflée also asked an institutional question. Mr De Caluwe, if you are referring to frontier workers in Belgium who work abroad, that person has his place of residence in Belgium. The principle of vaccination is that we rely on the place of residence. So anyone who has his place of residence in our country is in the Belgian vaccination plan. In relation to health professionals, a specific question was asked that we need to look at more closely. For health professionals, people working in health care, linked to their institution, we have a responsibility in the role of the occupational health service. For such employees there may be a reason to deviate from the residence principle. That has to be clarified further, but we are aware of that. Also for the expats, we have to make a distinction. Expats staying in Belgium are covered by the Belgian scheme, again according to the residence principle, and they will be included in the vaccination strategy according to the applicable rules. The non-expats also have an interest in this. Vaccination is an exercise in solidarity. We therefore have an interest in including expats from other countries who are staying in our country in our vaccination campaign. Belgians staying abroad are, of course, also entitled to vaccination. We must not lose sight of them. This presupposes a few appointments, because we cannot allow all Belgians who stay abroad to travel here whenever it is convenient for them to be vaccinated here. Further agreements must be made, and specific measures must be put in place for them. We will continue to discuss this with the Foreign Minister. We need to discuss how to deal with Belgians who are staying abroad and who want to enjoy the Belgian vaccination campaign. Many questions are about the quality of vaccines and doses, about the vaccines, about things we have already learned from concrete problems and about the organisation of the centres. In the latter context, I am thinking of what Mr Bacquelaine said. This is an interfederal cooperation which is going very well. I am very grateful to Mr Beke, Mr Maron, Mrs Morreale and Mr Antoniadis and others for their good cooperation. The last kilometer in the campaign is, of course, very much based on the approach of colleagues responsible in the regions and communities. For example, the precise way in which general practitioners, local authorities and so on are engaged in the campaign is determined primarily by the colleagues of the Regions and Communities. The Flemish Community has already made it quite clear that it relies on the first-line zones as an anchor point for organisation, but also on local authorities. I will not comment on the other regions. That is where this discussion is taking place and progress is being made. In general, I share Mr Bacquelaine's concern about the involvement of the general practitioners and the local authorities. Perhaps Mr Ramaekers will say a little more about that. I would now like to give the floor to the representatives of the task force. Perhaps Mr Ramaekers should speak first and then spread the floor and the questions further over Professors Dogné and Van Damme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u45	The powerpoint presentation has now been forwarded to the members. Everyone has also taken good note of the small correction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u46	Mr President, according to Mrs Fonck, I said that everyone will be vaccinated before the summer. But I never said that, Mrs Fonck! Can we not make erroneous quotations? What I said was that we can start the vaccination of young people too before the summer and not that everyone would be vaccinated before the summer. Also, don't give me such words, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u47	Mr President, there were still uncertainties about slide 7. There were also punctual questions. I can reassure people. Vaccine net+ has been started. From Vaccinenet+ there will be a feedback to the EMD with the GP. It has called for serious efforts to get that done in a short time. That is provided for. I will also tell you why that is so important. They also asked how people would be invited and how risk groups could be identified. At the beginning of December we started a very specific working group on this subject, involving representatives of general practitioners and specialists in this field. This is done in close cooperation not only with Vaccinenet but also with Mr Frank Robben's services. The following may also be underlined. The reservation of a test is already far-reachingly digitised through the test centres. That already exists and works, and that is what we are about to transform. The timing is also foreseen. One will also be able to make his reservation for the vaccine in this way. Of course, we are going to have to do more than that. We're gonna have to call the people. This will not only be digital, but will also have to be done by local authorities at the moment when the vaccines arrive in the centres. In addition to the risk groups, the following will be done for the risk groups, which is a difficult population. There's been a lot of hard work on that. The key person, who often primarily knows which risk population someone belongs to, is the GP. The general practitioner, who often works extensively digitised, can often identify the patient. We think that we will be able to use the data for a piece, that the general practitioner can launch it in this way. This is already being developed quite extensively. That won't do. We will also have to use other data sources. However, I would like to emphasise very strongly that, as a task force, we consider it extremely important that privacy be protected at any time. Of course you can. The general practitioner has his professional secrecy, you know that. We will enable the systems such as EMD or eHealth to the maximum. That is why the general practitioner is so crucial, as is the pharmacist, the home nurses and others who are in contact with chronic patients. They can sensitise if they notice that the patient has not yet been vaccinated. The GP will indeed have to see in his EMD whether or not a patient has received a vaccine. The system will also allow double calls to be avoided, so that no one gets two or three calls. That is far-reaching in development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u48	Is that information also linked to the GFD?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u49	The pharmacists are also involved in the working group, and this is now being looked at. First things first. It has to work first. All the things that can happen in addition, with the maximum protection of privacy, we will look at, so that those groups are captured to the maximum. On the basis of the latest news and the latest facts known, namely the security of the supplies of Pfizer and Moderna, we will not be able to vaccinate the staff of the residential care centres even more quickly. With all the capacity we have, we also see that what we considered possible at the earliest from mid-February can now be accelerated and that the vaccination of health workers can also start effectively at the end of January or early February. We also discussed in the task force last night how we will distribute the vaccines, because we can now use two types. You will notice that the numbers will not yet be enough to vaccinate all health professionals. If you ask me when they will all be vaccinated, I cannot answer you exactly today, but we had already included a guideline in our strategy. This will be possible both for the first line and for the hospitals. We will primarily vaccinate those people who are at the highest risk in the hospitals and the first line. We know them. Locally they are also very well known, for example in a first-line zone or other environments. I think that guidance can be applied fairly quickly. I would add that in hospitals, for example, workers' doctors and occupational health services in themselves also have a very good view of the groups at risk. They have seen in the workplace where the risks occurred. We've certainly provided for that. Do we have enough vaccinators? Let me reverse the question. We have done a great deal of work over the past year, and in order for this vaccination campaign to be successful, in the hope that we will get out of the pandemic, we need a final effort. Success will depend not only on the organisation but also on the efforts of many people. The general practitioners will certainly play an important role in this. It is not just about the medical supervision of vaccinations, but also about the organisational aspect because people need to work together. We must not forget that they are already playing a very important role in the whole. Identifying patients will only work with them. We get a lot of positive signals from their representatives and associations. We are already very much in the process of sensitizing and disseminating information. It is clear that the nurses are involved, but I would like to mention the pharmacists in particular. After all, this is about the administration of a vaccine, which is pharmaceutical care. We therefore strongly recommend that there should be supervision of pharmaceutical care in the vaccination centres. As a task force we are in contact with all these groups, that is obvious. It is a fact that the associations of pharmacists are united in their support and that they will make the necessary efforts. However, as far as the best practices of vaccination centres with purely care professionals are concerned, one has to be realistic. After all, these people still have to care, even though they have already made huge efforts. A royal decree was published in December allowing other persons to be involved in vaccination, although under supervision and subject to some training, as quality must be guaranteed. I do not give an exhaustive list here, but among other things retired caregivers have already applied spontaneously in quite large numbers. Furthermore, they are students for care professions, nurses and doctors in training and so on. Some of these people have already worked in the testing centres, which is of course a very good thing for their training. In addition, there are many other volunteers. So we see that there is a great willingness, but the task force is still concerned. All this will have to fall into the right fold in the next few weeks. I am positive and enthusiastic, but now we need to roll out the concrete bestaffin for each vaccination centre, and we also need timetables. However, the first signals are very positive. So that's a good thing. There were a lot of questions about giving the sixth dose. I just want to make something right. I may have misunderstood, but I had the impression that you thought that we were suddenly confronted with that sixth dose two days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u50	Mr Ramaekers, may I interrupt you for a moment? We have a timing problem. I see the Minister is packing his things. It is important for us, Members of Parliament, to be able to reply. It is also important that the Minister hears that reply. I would therefore like to suggest something strange. At 1.50 p.m., the Minister has to go to the Consultation Committee. Everyone understands that, too. I would therefore suggest that Members now replicate, and finally the Minister is politically responsible. I hope that the experts of the task force will be able to stay for a while afterwards, to take the floor on the more technical aspects. That seems to me to be the most correct way of doing things. There's one minute of reply time per group. Is that good for everyone? Otherwise, the Minister will no longer be able to hear the replies. I know Members of Parliament don't like that. Emergency breaks the law. Mr Ramaekers and the other experts, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u51	Mr President, the reply will not be very political, as we have not finished. Nevertheless, Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation, which was good and clear. We will still not agree to everything, but an effort has been made, which is very important. As far as the technical explanation is concerned, I am sure that I will have important questions. However, Minister, what is very special is that you stress that there is good cooperation with the regions. I hope she stays good, too. This morning, I heard Mrs Jiroflée say in a debate, on which I was also present, that cooperation is somewhat more difficult and that telephony between you and certain members of the Flemish Government is not very smooth. I have questions about that. After all, there had apparently not been much contact for a particular consultation. That was contradicted by the journalist. That's a concern I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u52	Mr President, very briefly. I didn't say that explicitly. I said this morning that Minister Vandenbroucke promised that we could start the vaccinations on 5 January and that we were indeed ready and that the Länder will be dealt with. I have suggested nowhere, but nowhere, that there would be a conflict between Minister Vandenbroucke and the Flemish level. I want to make that very clear here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u53	Let's get this straight. I did not say that there was a conflict between Minister Vandenbroucke and the Flemish level. I simply asked the question: Mr Jiroflée said in the debate that there was only one contact with the Flemish Minister for the Interior and I asked whether it was effective or not. That's the only question I have about this. I would like to end, Minister, by saying that, after you had said that you would be ready earlier on 5 January, and it turned out that this was not the case, that you have regrouped and that that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u54	I would like to thank the Minister and the people of the task force for their reply. I believe that we all need optimistic messages. I am a little afraid that we are too optimistic, and perhaps that is a strange contradiction, but it will be very difficult for the young people if we have to find out in the summer that we are not getting the timing. However, Minister, I am glad that you have corrected that we will not be ready by summer, but that we will start vaccination of young people by summer. Absolutely necessary at this stage is clear communication. I think you have set a good example of this today. We must continue to hold on to this: to communicate clearly about everything that is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u55	Minister, today we were waiting for answers and we had a clear speech, which I thank you for. There is a strategy, of course, a strategy led by a task force, by all the entities, federal and federated. It will obviously have to adapt, be flexible. You have to be reactive. We all want to speed up. We all want to be able to relive fully at the level of health, at the economic level, at the level of social living, but we must not speed up the road. It will have to be done in a reasonable and reasoned manner. Then, Minister, it is important to communicate in order to gain confidence. Our fellow citizens are exhausted. The most vulnerable are afraid. They need perspective. We've got some now. These are notes of hope. It is necessary to go there so that these hopes become reality and so that our young people, who have been eating their brakes for a long time, can also relive, because they are in dire need of them. So thank you and go, go, go, now!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u56	Minister, I sincerely hope that we do not miss the train. I hope we're not working on the time schedule anymore. Unfortunately, my experience in this crisis is that hope alone is not enough. I'm afraid we're not on the platform yet. There is a little bit of hope and hope, as a Flemish artist sings. There's a plan and that's a lot of progress. After a year of screwing up, it's certainly not too early. There's a plan and I hope it's being implemented properly now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u57	Mr President, with regard to the vaccination of healthcare professionals and caregivers, I think it might be useful to take into account the action taken by our French neighbours. France begins with the more than fifty years of age, people at risk, who must, in fact, be prepared to endure a deterioration of the situation in our care line and be best equipped to deal with the virus. As far as the number of vaccinators is concerned, I would point out that this is a medical act. The vaccine can, of course, be administered by people other than doctors, but it must remain under the supervision of a doctor. We're not in the case of testing, where there's never anaphylactic shock. On the other hand, in case of vaccination, this can happen and it is therefore good that there is a medical check-up. I would also like to recall the importance of general practitioners throughout the operation. I thank the minister for alluding to it. It is clear that the federated entities are obviously primarily concerned, but I think that the general practitioners should be in the vaccination task force. I would like a confirmation of that. I welcome the acceleration of the vaccination campaign. All doses should be used immediately as soon as they are available. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. Everything was very clear. Thanks also to the experts, but I am waiting for part two to ask any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u59	I was waiting for the explanation of the sixth dose, which would come right. Of course the experts are of good will, but a lot has already gone wrong in Belgium. With two waves, our country has the highest mortality rate according to population ratio. We didn't do it right. The population is skeptical and so am I. I hold my heart when I hear the myths that everything will go well. We were told at the beginning that the residents of the residential care centres and the staff would be vaccinated. Then there was a delay and those people protested. Under pressure, we're accelerating. That's how it happened, that's the reality. We will continue to look very critically at this so that all doses reach the people quickly and as well as possible. I am also concerned about the identification of the risk groups. You've already thought about it, but of course that's the least of it. How exactly is that going to work? Our patients at risk are coming back from a bald journey to the pharmacist for their flu vaccination. They haven't been vaccinated, like many. How's that gonna go well? We will be very critical in this respect. I'm waiting for instructions to effectively register at-risk patients for their vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u60	Obviously, it is not such an obvious exercise to identify the patients at risk. That's very privacy-sensitive. That must certainly be done with the necessary care. Perhaps it will be possible to consider whether the health insurance funds can play a role in this. They do have a view of, for example, the use of medicines. On the basis of this data, it may be possible to define a number of patients at risk, with privacy guaranteed of course. Of course, we do not want everyone's diseases to be made public. Maybe there's a solution there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u61	I don't have a reply for the Minister. Thanks for the initiative. The explanations were very enlightening and I hope that the next part will be as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u62	Minister, if young people start being vaccinated before the summer, it means that the other priority and age categories could have been vaccinated before; that's where I'll be following you anyway. This is a first step today, because many things could and should have been done for months. It's a first step to catch up and give us an accelerator. This is a positive step, although there is still a lot of work to be done. Action must be taken quickly. I made a series of proposals, sometimes you answer them, sometimes you don't. In any case, I try to make as many proposals as possible. I'm really counting on you to change the protocol for the sixth dose tomorrow. Each dose should be administered. In the protocol, it is officially written that only five doses are required. There are 2.2 millilitres in the vial once it is reconstituted and therefore clearly the quality is available for six doses. Finally, extend vaccination now to the most at-risk caregivers. We have unused doses in the freezers. Do it. Experts and caregivers wrote a carte blanche. They speak on behalf of many caregivers. It is not a question of competing nursing homes and nursing homes, but of doing both at the same time. At least take the trouble of meeting them, please, whether it is you, as a minister, or at the level of the task force. You must meet them and be able to hear them. On their behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u63	Mr. Chair, quickly, because I know that the minister has important obligations ahead of him. As far as vaccinators are concerned, I must point out that immunizing is not an anomalous act, it is a medical act that requires knowledge but also surveillance of the person vaccinated, in particular because violent reactions can be observed. So, as Mr. Bacquelaine said, it requires the supervision of a doctor. But do we now have enough doctors capable of this surveillance? That's a real question to ask. I would like an answer on this. It is true that things are accelerating in the setting up of vaccination centres, but I am concerned about people with reduced mobility, who cannot travel and who also have the right to be vaccinated. What is planned for these people? For the health care staff, who are most at risk, I understood that there was a real opening to vaccinate as quickly as possible. I invite you to speed up this reflection and their integration into our vaccination strategy. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u64	I am pleased that the Minister has been able to answer my question about the expats, although not in detail, but in principle. My question about the French pressure to order fewer vaccines at BioNtech was again given a sort of Fawlty-Towers-I-know-nothing-Manuel-answer today, which I am a little disappointed. But what I really regret is that you did not answer Tristan's case, but perhaps the other speakers will be able to do so later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u65	We will now say goodbye to the Minister. I thought it was important that he could still hear the replies. We will now proceed with the task force's experts. I give the floor to Mr Ramaekers, who was just about to explain the question of the six doses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u66	Mr President, I was indeed just explaining the history of the sixth dose. Originally, all official information from Pfizer, the EEA and also own FAGG spoke clearly about five doses. You know that we did dry runs and then pilgrimage in the first care centers. That went very well. We then determined that six doses could be taken regularly from one vial. We reported that immediately through the FAGG. This has gone up to the level of the European Medicines Agency and Pfizer has also been informed that we found a discrepancy in the field. Of course, it is very difficult to say 'Throw it away', and that has never been the instruction. That discussion came up during piloting. Meanwhile, the EEA has confirmed, and this is yesterday's information, that six doses can be taken from one bottle. However, I would like to make the nuance. It actually depends on the material used. It won't always be six doses. Depends on the type of syringe. We have a view of our supply of needles and syringes, but at some point we will need to use potential 2 cc syringes and the dead volume will get a little bigger. So there is no guarantee that it will always be six doses. The EEA has followed us in this. This is potentially also a legal discussion. That sixth dose is a fully-fledged vaccine, so there's nothing wrong with that. Small surpluses must not, of course, be combined. We're evaluating that now. If six doses can be systematically extracted from one bottle, that is a good thing, we should not discuss it, that is additional. Then we can vaccinate more people faster. To reassure Dr. Fonck, protocol has already been adjusted. The protocol is adapted and the small video with the instructions also. That was adjusted last night. That also shows the dynamics. We are trying to do this reactive work as quickly as possible. I will give the floor to Professor Dogné for the surveillance and the anaphylactic shock and so on, for which we are afraid. It's a new vaccine. We already know something, but not everything. The emergency trousse must of course be present. That's standard procedure at the time of vaccination. We have found in the residential care centres that this has always been the case. The general practitioners or the CRAs must have that on them. In all occupational health services this is also a standard procedure for all vaccinations. So far, this has always been perfect. Of course, it's procedure that there should be an emergency trousse with adrenaline for the rare anaphylaxis. We must, of course, be able to act. I now give the floor to Mr Dogné for the part about anaphylaxis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u67	Mr President, this is the second time I have come to the Health Committee. Each time, I am pleasantly surprised at all the proposals that are really making progress, and I thank you for that. I'm dealing with the vaccine in particular. To continue on the sixth dose and talk to you about this flexibility, I must first point out that the material, the vials did not allow to remove six doses. A problem would have arisen if there were insufficient amounts for a sixth injection. This could have resulted in a suboptimal dose, which would have been even greater in the elderly. This information has been captured by both the pharmaceutical industry Pfizer and the European Medicines Agency. As far as flexibility is concerned, we have been working on it all day long on a European scale. We have received information that, from a very technical point of view, syringes could be used for the extraction of this sixth dose, provided that the dead volume in the needle and syringe is not greater than 35 microlitres. The result was a discussion last night in the Task Force. Today, at 12 noon, the European Medicines Agency published this technical information, recommending a thoughtful use of a sixth dose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u68	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u69	I fully agree with you, Mrs Fonck: it remains a classic syringe. It's the media; it's not me! It was only to justify that a sixth dose, a suboptimal dose should require the use of an appropriate syringe and needle. As you know, it is not the company that supplies the bulb and the injection equipment. It's very subtle. In any case, it is crucial that the European countries and the FDA have identified this important volume, which would justify the equipment. With regard to anaphylactic risk, adverse reactions of this type – relatively rare – appear little in clinical studies. Moreover, they were not seen in the Pfizer vaccine. For influenza vaccines, they are estimated at a frequency of one case per million. During its use in the United Kingdom, a few cases were detected. In response, these data have been integrated into an international system. It is important to remember that we are part of an international pharmacovigilance system. In this way, countries that have used vaccines in advance have provided us with a wide range of information on these risks of adverse events. The ECDC released a report yesterday on anaphylactic shocks and found that more anaphylactic shocks could be seen than the number expected with the influenza vaccine. But this remains very rare: about one in every 100,000 cases. Surprisingly, this occurs much more frequently in women than in men. We're understanding why. They find that most cases occur in people who have had allergic reactions in the past and in whom events occur within 15 minutes. Hence the recommendations that had already been proposed: to follow people with at least 15 minutes of monitoring. That was mentioned. This certainly means 30 minutes in the most at-risk populations. Pierre Van Damme will surely talk about some of the initiatives that we are thinking about. We had this report yesterday. You were also able to see the transparency; this report was published yesterday. The European Agency will also publish a report. We stay in very rare events. What is important is that these events have two interests: in terms of transparency and how they are reported. First, AFMPS has also developed a somewhat larger surveillance system, with recommendations for reporting these adverse reactions, whatever they may be, either using the Vaccinnet platform that brings back to the AFMPS site, where both health care professionals and patients can report adverse reactions. Today, I would be a little unhappy to find a health professional who is not aware that he can report adverse reactions, including on the basis of the Medicines and Health Products Agency. That has been recalled here. There are webinars every time. We're in the news. From a practical point of view, this is also the responsibility of health professionals to use these platforms that are available. Patients have been able to report these side effects since July 2012. It's not new. This information is also reported in SOPs and on patient cards that can also be distributed according to vaccines. The second important point concerns Vaccinnet. We'll take the term Vaccinnet off, if you don't mind. It is a request from the WHO, the European Medicines Agency, to ensure the traceability of the vaccine in patients or in vaccinees. Why? We need this famous denominator, the number of people who are vaccinated, to calculate the incidence of adverse events. I just talked to you about it, it's one in every 100,000 cases. If you don't know the number of people vaccinated, you can't find that number. Second, there was a question about what should be mentioned in this database. It is obviously the name of the vaccine, the dose and the lot number. Indeed, one can have clusters of adverse events that come from a defective batch, hence the importance of reporting this batch number. As far as I am concerned, traceability is primarily a safety tool and not at all a tool to track people who are vaccinated. We're working on anonymous databases. I wanted to mention it. I will conclude on the transparency of this information. In the case of adverse events, the transparency is complete. The sites are also available free of charge for anyone who wants to search for this information, both at European and Belgian level. Reports will be proactively published by the Belgian Agency. The Commission has just published its first weekly report on events reported at the national level. She published it yesterday. Every week, she will publish the adverse events reported to her. The European Agency and ECDC also do so. Of course, we are very interested in transparency about these undesirable events, since we know that this is the first reason why people can be hesitant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u70	In particular, I can add that, on the basis of the report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, following the anaphylactic reactions we were allowed to read yesterday, we are considering reviewing our standard operating procedures, not so much in the sense of contraindications, but above all with a view to more targeted monitoring of people after vaccination. It may well be that we are going to discuss this with the task force, and people who have an allergic history in the sense of severe anaphylaxis, for example on elements other than components of a vaccine, will not watch for 15 minutes but 30 minutes. It is now also a bit the recommendation of the CDC in the United States to keep an eye on that particular profile of people for longer. It was also very striking that it is more women than men in this report, so we will also be paying attention to that. That is the first point. Secondly, a fair question concerns people in society who are walking around with an adrenaline pen or EpiPen. Those people are very concerned about these kinds of interventions. It might be an idea, too, that we should discuss this with the task force, because that idea dates from today to give these people a separate place to give vaccination in a very cautious, in-house way, so that they do not fall out of the boat and have all the guarantees that we do so in a cautious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Van Damme. I thought it was important that we took the time to get all the answers from the task force. Are there any questions for the members of the task force now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u72	Mr President, first of all I would like to comment on the way in which we work. It was not ideal for us to reply before we received an answer, but we should discuss this in the course of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u73	I agree it wasn't ideal, but the Minister at least heard you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u74	It was not a criticism of you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u75	I'll do it the way I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u76	I think that the link between Vaccine Network and the GMD is absolutely a good thing, because that will really be necessary for the follow-up. Of course, I also agree with the prioritisation of care providers. As far as the vaccinators are concerned, I still have a concern about the less mobile patients received from the general practitioners. You talked about the vaccination villages, but it is important that fewer mobile patients can be vaccinated at a later stage with the GP itself. We have to think about that, but also about the doubters, people who really want to join their personal GP in order to be persuaded and thus reach 70%. With regard to the EEA's statement, please reassure me. I thought it was a bit contradictory. Politicians say that we will use different standards, but you actually had a different standard from what the EEA had said. That has now been corrected. I didn't get an answer to the question as to why no unique barcode is being used. Professor Dogné mentioned the lottery numbers, which is indeed already a piste, but we work in pharmacy with unique barcodes, so a unique barcode system can be even more close. When each vial has a unique barcode, the risks are even more limited. In connection with the anaphylactic shock, I think it's a good plan to vaccinate the really concerned patients separately. I also read a study by the KUL on the effects on blood pressure. Have you also provided special treatments for those patients? Finally, in connection with the call-in letter, did I understand correctly that a link is being made to the general practitioner? (Confirmation) Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u77	Mr President, I have not yet heard an answer to the question as to whether the timing now before us can be maintained if a third wave breaks out. That is why there is some concern. Is there a plan B, if any? I had also asked a question about the vulnerable target group, for example people without a national register number. I don't know if that question can be answered now, but I'm still concerned about that group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u78	Mr President, I would like to return very briefly to the choice of vaccine. As the presentation showed, each vaccine obviously has different side effects as well as a different rate of effectiveness. AstraZeneca has a significantly lower rate than the other two currently validated vaccines. The point was to say earlier that this remains a very high rate. Without a doubt, but between 70% and 94%... How will the choices be made when vaccines are on the market at the same time? Who will benefit from what vaccine and on what basis? Will there be criteria related to vulnerability or side effects? Will this be done at the choice of the citizen? If I place myself as a citizen and if I have to choose today, naively, I obviously prefer the one that has the highest efficiency. How can we ensure that there is no problem when we have this choice of vaccine, that we hope at some point, and that there is no competition between citizens or between vaccination centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in an interview Professor Dr. Theo Schetters said that vaccination with a mRNA vaccine could give rise to autoimmune diseases. What's your opinion on that? Do you think this is bullshit? Or is it something that you do take into account? Did you include this in your risk analysis? Then I have an invention in connection with the vaccinators. You have thought about it, of course, that is very good. The care experts who now work in the test villages will continue to work there, I hope. So we must have a very large quota of people, apart from the testers, who can also put syringes. I assume the testers will stay. With the third wave in advance, if we can believe Professor Snoeck, they will certainly be necessary. In addition, a quota of vaccine injectors, perhaps the same size, will be needed. Perhaps I should have asked the Minister another question, but I would like to throw them here in the group. How come the start of vaccination in Wallonia went faster than in Flanders? According to Bart De Wever, it was because Wallonia didn't keep the agreements. I would have liked to have thought of that. Mr Ramaekers, the following was not really clear to me. You say that you have a vision of the number of needles you will need, but that at some point you will need to switch to larger needles. (Mr Ramaekers says no, no larger needles)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u80	Is that about bigger doses? I don't understand. I'm not medically trained. I would like to have a little more explanation on that, to make sure that the problem is certainly not there. The political vision was always not to force the vaccine. I have once again heard that we are going for a 70% vaccination rate. Are we going to continue not to require vaccination, even if we do not achieve 70%?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u81	The members of the task force can stay for a while, so all questions can still be asked and answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u82	Mr President, I had a question about the psychiatric patients, a target group of about 150,000 patients, who also live together in psychiatric hospitals. We know that it is much harder for them to understand the corona rules. Are they also a priority group in the first phase? After all, I also see them as a vulnerable target group. If not, when will it be time for them in stages 1 or 2, to be eligible for a possible vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank the experts for being able to stay a little longer. After all, I would like to comment on the question of whether my criticism has just been made. Of course, you are not making the political decisions. However, it concerns the search for ways to vaccinate as many people as possible as quickly as possible, especially those who belong to the risk groups, not only in the residential care centres but also all 80-plussers who still live at home. I did not receive an answer to my question as to why we do not apply that 42-day period, although it was included in the package leaflet. That question has not been answered. Why is it not proposed to people who have developed antibodies not to be vaccinated as a priority? I have another question that does not deal with this problem, but with the possible effectiveness of the vaccination campaign. Is the vaccine effective or not for the new English variant? I did not receive an answer to that question either. You are not making the political decisions, but I would nevertheless like to stress the inconvenience of the general practitioners. I read yesterday in the newspaper that the first-line zones will have to realise this in concrete terms. I'm holding my heart. I'm a doctor myself. A lot of general practitioners have already been required. In particular, it is necessary for general practitioners to be able to properly inform their patients and to ensure that they can effectively report to the government the names of the patients they know, who belong to the risk groups and should be able to receive the vaccine, who can then ensure that those persons are vaccinated. Once again, with the failure of the flu vaccine in mind, where we were completely powerless towards our patients who did not get that flu vaccine. I would also like to emphasise the following. There was no response to the fact that the test centres and vaccination centres would be physically in the same place. If there were a third wave or an increase in the number of infections, I am not reassured. Thus it is possible that people come along with the car, one to be vaccinated and the other to do a test. I just want to say that I see a danger there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u84	Mr. President, gentlemen, thank you. I would like to stress the importance of having local immunization capabilities when we immunize more widely, in particular to reach people in difficulty. I think there's really a way to integrate general practitioners, especially when we have unidoses. It seems more complicated to me with multidoses. On the issue of vaccine providers, I believe that medical-infirmary tandems should be considered now. We know that it will have to be optimal when we have local immunization centres. We could already start setting up tandems of doctors and nurses to have a good capacity of teams of vaccinators. This trail should be explored. On the sixth dose, this is not a political position. Indeed, several countries have made this decision and have been implementing it for several weeks. I admit that I disappoint when we see that several thousand doses have not been used in our home. I confess that it hurt my guts yesterday, because they were so many people who could have been vaccinated in addition. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has already validated it for several weeks, as has Switzerland and Denmark, to take just a few examples. So, above all, let's go! 2.2 ml: there is no photo! Sometimes there will even be a seventh dose. But I think it is safe to stick to six doses. On the anaphylactic shock, I saw yesterday this study with 21 anaphylaxis in 1.8 million doses. This represents 11 people per 1 million injections in the USA. I'd like to make a suggestion. I realize that on the part of the vaccinators, we sometimes find ourselves facing people – since we also vaccinate the staff – who have an allergic history, who have already made an oedema of Quincke, for example. Couldn't have a decision help? Not for anything, not for three hives. We know these people have to be monitored for 30 minutes. But could we have help with the decision-making of an allergy specialist, including on the vaccine components, who takes into account all the published data? This would allow vaccinators to benefit from assistance in deciding whether to vaccinate, in the event of an allergic history, including angioedema of Quincke – today, it is completely contraindicated – or anaphylactic shock. Among other things, there is the question of polyethylene glycol. I think that in the coming weeks, this could be additional support. I allow myself this very concrete suggestion. I am still waiting to be able to examine the routes to immunize nonimmunized people first, especially when there are not many vaccines available. Yesterday's study of antibodies acquired with a duration of eight months is still appealing as the possibility of using the second dose within 42 days and not within 21 days, at least in younger people; in fact, older people probably need both doses because they have more difficulty obtaining immunity. As for the plan to increase our production capacity for the whole of Europe from our Belgian sites, whether it is Puurs or in collaboration with another pharmaceutical company, I do not know whether it is up to you or to policies. Finally, is it the task force that has to validate the use of 60,000 doses in freezers or is it a policy decision? If it's in your hands, can you consider this question, even this weekend? Starting to immunize at-risk caregivers in hospitals would be quite feasible. Teams can quickly be set up or, in any case, at the very beginning of next week. You know, with the sixth dose, next week, we won't have 83,000 doses but a capacity of about a hundred thousand doses. Let's go! I don't know if this decision is up to you or politics. I wish we could clarify that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u85	Mr President, I would like to return to a few points. With regard to delaying administration of the second dose, as allowed by the WHO in its last recommendation, while specifying that it would only cover exceptional circumstances, I would like to say that if we move towards this strategy, we remain in exceptional circumstances and that this does not become the norm. I hear that this strategy is not being adopted at the moment because too many unknowns surround it. But could we not call on the European Union to combine the various studies on this subject in order to have an overall and clearer view? I believe that the European Union can have its role to play. Finally, with regard to communication, Mr Englert, during his visit to the RTBF on Wednesday, explained that for the moment, the communication is more focused on health care staff and doctors because people are instinctively going to their doctor to ask questions. Next to that, we must not forget the general public. Many people prefer, for example, to search for information on social networks; these channels should not be neglected. This is in particular what Israel has done, which has invested heavily in communication via social networks for its people. In addition, a chilling effect has been observed due to the fact that well-known personalities have been vaccinated. Could information not be disseminated about the number of people immunizing around the world and the small number of side effects? This could help reassure people. Furthermore, could the dossiers for the approval of vaccines by the European Medicines Agency not be made public? Indeed, opacity is not used in this vaccination campaign. The more transparency is ensured, the easier it is to reach the required vaccination rate, knowing that this rate will have to be higher if it turns out that the famous British variant of the virus is more virulent. We must therefore be vigilant about this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u86	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this while the professors are still present. I thought a number of questions had not yet been answered. We want to reach a 70 percent vaccination rate. Is that counted on the whole population or just on the 18-plussers? If it is for the whole population and we do not vaccinate the -18-year-olds, then we should have few denyers of vaccination to reach 70%. Do we have a strategy in mind for the -18-year-olds if we have more studies on it? With regard to the persons at risk, I did not receive an answer as to which conditions involve an increased risk. I understand that it will only be clarified later how to reach these people. There have been a number of samples on natural immunity, the results of which we know through Sciensano. However, epidemiological models indicate that there could be a natural immunity of 29 %. Do you think that's realistic? Can we not use it to speed up, at least for the time being, to 70% on immunity? I also did not see my last question answered. Was the event sector addressed to contribute or assist in the organisation of mass vaccinations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u87	Does anyone else still want to ask questions? [[No]] I give the floor to the members of the Task Force in thanking them for being present again. We are indeed seeing the Minister on Tuesday, as Mrs Rohonyi repeated. This is true of the more political questions. I leave that choice to you, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u88	Maybe just stress that the three of us are already eager to answer a number of questions. I'll try to be quick. Pierre and Jean-Michel will undoubtedly complement me. As far as the less mobile patients are concerned, that's what we're thinking. That's a smaller group, but an important group. I believe that we will develop mobile teams from the vaccination centres as a function of the specificity of the vaccine. That's already under consideration. Brussels, an important partner of our task force, has made the most progress. We'll take care of that. I have also quite clearly noted Tristan's question, a number of younger people with serious diseases. Of course, the task force understands this and it is obvious that this attracts our attention. At the start of the vaccination strategy, the main aim was to achieve the greatest profit. You know that mortality in COVID-19 increases with age. The High Health Council has also emphasised that age remains the most important risk factor. In addition, there are patients at risk, which is described in their advice and our comprehensive report. This concerns chronic patients, in the first instance between 45 and 65 years of age. These are diabetics, people with kidney disease, liver disease and so on. It is therefore a rather large group and it was clear to us in December that the age limit of 45 years was arbitrary. At the moment, the High Health Council, a very important partner of the task force, is therefore preparing an update of the advice. There will be an update in the coming weeks, but there will undoubtedly have to be more. The additional risk groups will be determined and, of course, the risk groups that have not yet been appointed will not have to join behind. That aspect has absolutely the task force's attention and work is under way. I have already explained that we believe that the general practitioners are best placed to identify the groups at risk, in order to be able to give the signal from their medical records. The suggestion has been made to look at other data as well and I haven't had time to explain it. However, this is already provided for in our methodology. It concerns health insurance data, for example on medicines, but also the cancer register. Those cases will also be used to identify the risk groups. We will contact these people at the right stage to make an appointment for vaccination if we wish. With regard to the discussion about the barcode, the lottery number and the CNK-code, that certainly needs to be looked at further. There are also agreements between the pharmaceutical agency and Pfizer. I will not give any further details on this because I do not have all the answers. However, I have noted it. Regarding the impact on blood pressure, it has been described that vaccination may affect blood pressure. Hence the waiting period of 15 to 20 minutes. When this happens, it happens quite quickly in principle. That is not a side effect that we are deeply concerned about. We've already gone into anaphylaxis extensively, and we're very vigilant about that. For the group of people with severe allergies, for example those who need to use an EpiPen, we absolutely need to find a solution. We already know in advance that they have a seriously higher risk of side effects. As far as the third wave is concerned, the task force has discussed it extensively and has already given a signal. Let us be clear, a successful vaccination strategy will go hand in hand with all the other measures that we can continue as disciplined as possible according to the incidence. You should not ask the three of us, because we would like to see some more discipline on a number of points, so that the figures get even better. At the moment, there is a fairly favourable evolution. The more favourable it becomes, the more capacity we will have in the vaccination centres. My personal opinion is that a full-blown third wave will flood our health system, as we have seen in some places in the first and second wave. I therefore continue to stress that the two will have to go hand in hand. So we must also try to limit the incidences. The Commissioner therefore wants us to coordinate the management strategy with, among other things, testing. There is a lot of interaction, but if there is a full-blown third wave, it will have an impact on our strategy, although we are already thinking about using more people, including other people under supervision of, quality in order. We therefore share that concern. You also had questions about people in collections. These are also included in our strategy. We are aware of the age element and the vulnerability. That's why the residential care centers were the first group. In the strategy, it is immediately followed by all other collective care institutions. A number of them have already been mentioned. I can also give you a list of others. We have received the first inventory of these institutions from the Länder. There was even communication about it this morning. They follow the available vaccines in a subsequent phase, after the residential care centres. I can absolutely reassure you on that. Certain other collections have also been mentioned here, such as asylum centres. We have had a first discussion on this too. We will also find a solution to this. The needles and the syringes, we may not have explained that enough. I did not say that larger or thicker syringes will have to be used. I would like to emphasise that, so that we do not have a particular image. The needles themselves are always small needles. If possible, we use tuberculin syringes, so very small and precise syringes. We have bought a lot of them, but because that market is under pressure worldwide, it is not excluded that, at some point, if we have to give more vaccines, we will also have to use other small syringes. That's what I meant. There's nothing wrong with those shots, but they're a little less easy to precisely dose and will therefore also have a potential impact on that exact quantity. So I did not mean that people would be vaccinated with a thick syringe. The obligation of 70% has indeed been a political decision. We started a campaign for voluntary vaccination because we believe that informed citizens can make the right choice. I don't know how that's gonna evolve. At some point it may be that the task force will look into this, but at the moment we are putting maximum effort on voluntary vaccination and trying to convince people of the added value of vaccines. In the long term, we will see how this evolves and, if necessary, formulate advice in one direction or another. It's hard to anticipate that. As far as the general practitioners are concerned, I would like to stress once again that the general practitioners have done a fantastic job. I now find that the general practitioners and their associations, together with other health care providers, once again take up their responsibilities. I would even characterize them as a driving force. Do we demand efforts from them? Yes, but we find that not only the general practitioners, but others are taking the lead again. It can't be without them. With all sympathy, including from our side. I think that they have already made enormous efforts and will continue to do so in the coming months and in the coming year, but it is not easy for them. I would like to emphasise that we are aware of this. The mental burden experienced by many of our caregivers is not less. However, there is the fact that we slowly see the light coming at the end of the tunnel for them as well as a heart under the belt. The combination of testing and vaccination centres is not really in our priority model for obvious reasons. However, it may be at some point that certain testing or vaccination centres would serve as a different centre. This could be infrastructure. Some centres may be able to be used for specific target groups. We're not ruling that out. With regard to the issue of unidosis, when one has unidoses, one is more likely to be part of the pattern of a conventional vaccination. We no longer have all these problems of distribution and thawing, etc. I would like to stress one more point about the freezers. Weekly doses are now on the increase. From the moment those doses started to arrive, they were transported to the hospital hubs. From there, they're going to the residential care centers. It is true that in the first week people started quite carefully. If we see how many tens of thousands of residents and staff are scheduled to be on the list in the next week, with an acceleration due to Pfizer's additional security, we have also looked at that in the task force last night, then those doses will be used if the additional vaccines and the Moderna vaccine are not added. There's always a time lag on that. The fact that there is now exponential work has had an extra impact on it. Next week they're at cruising speed. Then the doses will be used systematically. So we have a reverse concern for within a few weeks. What if it turns out soon, because we don't have a final report from AstraZeneca yet, that the efficacy figures would be different? It could be. I give the floor to Mr Dogné to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u89	Mr President, I will take up some questions and then Pierre Van Damme will follow with others. With regard to traceability, each vaccine is adapted to have a harmonized system between countries and between vaccines to ensure traceability. The European Agency recommends that both the name and batch number of the administered product be clearly recorded. But it is true, Mrs Depoorter, that the system is not mentioned. I fully agree with you. In Belgium, a 2D bar code system was proposed. What is interesting is that these discussions can be national. Now, a 2D barcode system must also be usable, used and brought into the database, where it will be encoded. Of course, pharmacies are used to it; vaccination centres do not have to. It's not just about having the gun to read the barcode. We also need to have the program that allows it. As mentioned by the President, it is being studied with the firms, both Pfizer and Moderna. That is something that we support, and I thank you for supporting it as well. With regard to the issue of mRNA vaccines, I have not understood very well whether it concerns the increased risk of autoimmune diseases or the problem of data in immunocompromised patients. I will therefore answer both aspects. Immunocompromised patients have been excluded from the studies but are not contraindicated, believing that they may be less effective. These patients are also – I mentioned the post-marketing studies that are ongoing and that are commitments, that is, that the firm is committed to carrying out – also the subject of studies, despite the fact that the product is on the market. We'll have data on immunocompromised patients. It should still be noted that a whole series of immunocompromised patients were indirectly included. In the Pfizer studies, there were a number of positive HIV patients with hepatitis C even if it is not immunodeficiency per se. On the other hand, with regard to the risk of increasing autoimmune diseases, this risk is linked to all vaccines because, by definition, it is known that this can happen. HPV vaccines have been studied in this and other vaccines. In this case, I spoke of preparation at both the national, international and WHO levels. A list of so-called adverse events of special interest which are not vaccine-related adverse events of current vaccines but which may possibly occur and for which the so-called "basic incidence rates" of these autoimmune diseases, in particular, need to be studied has been drawn up. This is not only true for autoimmune diseases. It's Guillain-Barré's syndrome. We also talked about a transverse myelitis for the Oxford vaccine. Pre-vaccination baseline incidence rates are studied – and they are available – and analyzed for an increase in these baseline incidence rates among the vaccinated population. This is being studied as the data appear. It's not just related to mRNA vaccine. It'll be for all the vaccines. I want to reassure you of the follow-up. These studies will not prevent risks. Let's be clear! If there is a risk of an increase, we will identify it as soon as possible – that is what we hope – and put it back in the context of the potential benefit-risk balance. This has been planned and is ongoing: both studies in immunocompromised patients and the risk of autoimmune diseases. Thirdly, before giving the floor to Peter, there was a question of making the assessments public. This is the case, I wanted to reassure you: the European Agency has made public the evaluation of the Pfizer vaccine. She had indicated that she would do so within three days of the authorisation of the Commission for Medicinal Products. On 21 December, the Commission delivered its opinion on the Pfizer vaccine. Three days later, the so-called "scientific public evaluation" was provided. It is a 140-page document available on the website of the European Medicines Agency. Maybe it's been on the line since today for the Moderna vaccine, but I'll check it out. In short, the European Agency has committed itself to full transparency of the data for the assessment in general and for the monthly evaluation of adverse events, or even more. We have access to it every day. Dashboard refers to the general public's information on the number of vaccines administered around the world. It's not for nothing that you saw us, with Yvon Englert, at RTBF. Indeed, we try to reach the general public as much as possible through debates. The global dashboard is available on different sites, which is why I told you about 15/16 million vaccines. An important public campaign is being prepared with Yvon Englert. We make every effort to communicate such presentations. You may have seen some up-to-date presentations available on the Internet. Finally, thank you for your suggestions for adverse events in case of anaphylaxis. We have just discussed it with Pierre, last night and this morning, in order to make available the best information, which is as suitable as possible. Questions have been asked in this regard. As you suggested, we want to provide a suitable decision tree. I have already identified interesting specificities. More than 90% are women, without us knowing the exact reason. More than 80% had allergic reactions. By vaccinating, we learn too. The United Kingdom was the first to approve the memory vaccine on 8 December. Two days later, the authorities "contraindicated" it for people with a history of allergic reactions to food, for example. And then, they went back and adapted to what was done to the FDA and EMA. Now, the ECDC also proposes, as you have pointed out, to limit the use of vaccine in patients with polyethylene glycol allergies. So we have to adapt to day-to-day. This is an important aspect, and I thank you for emphasizing this need to provide an adequate and optimal document for decision-makers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the task force, as my colleagues have said, I would like to thank you for the interesting input you have provided, including from the ground up. We are very pleased with that. Thinking about, for example, an algorithm to help people who are allergic decide, I think is a wonderful idea to bring with me right away. Maybe we can apply that to a number of other risk populations as well. The fact that we are here and that we are working on this day and night, you heard it: last night's discussions this morning show that we believe in it too. If we hear today that Belgium has started too slow, we must correct it. I'm here to assist our chairman. We could have started everything, with more residential care centers, but then we could have done less at the end of the month. Then we'd be out of everything we have now. We need to realize that too. The start-up phase was calculated. I take the example of Flanders: we start with 5 centers in a week, 41 centers in a week, 400 centers in a week. You can only do that if you have those doses. If you turn that around, you end up at a certain point with a week with five centers. These are things that you have to understand somewhere: you prefer to have the advantage of starting in a cautious, organized way. I would like to emphasise that. As far as priorities are concerned, I think it is quite clear why we did so in the residential care centres. Don't forget the pressure at the first wave and at the second wave on the patients of that age in such a collectivity where the epidemic rages the highest. The incidence is highest there, for those people and for the staff, let's not forget that. So you tackle an epidemic where the incidence is highest. Mortality is very high there, as is the burden of disease. So that also exerts pressure on our healthcare system, so that the non-covid patient doesn't actually get a place in our healthcare system anymore. So it's to the advantage of society as a whole to put that population first. The advantage that we have now is that we can also include health professionals, thanks to just increasing the speed and the elements that have been cited here. The concern about what if there is a third wave is important. Do we have enough hands? In the meantime, our chairman knows, our mailbox is full of retired health professionals who are keen to work. We bring them into contact with the first-line zones in Flanders. Perhaps the same will also happen on the French-speaking side. Why? We cannot use these pensioners in covid care so easily, just because of age. We can all use them in preventive care, in vaccination care. That's a huge advantage. Nursing students can also be used. This is already at the level of the vaccination centres and at the level of the first-line zones. What I certainly want to come back to is that I had not understood the rules of the committee correctly, which is why I just added to them on the adrenaline, but I wanted to answer a lot of the questions asked, namely the question of obligation or not. I can say that Belgium is doing very well with vaccination in general. With regard to infant vaccination and juvenile vaccination, we are among the top in Europe. That is what we want to continue, of course through awareness campaigns, which Jean-Michel Dogné has already mentioned, and through reaching out to pharmacists and general practitioners, who are our trusted people from the field. So we need to provide these people with information so that they feel comfortable answering their patients' questions. This is what we are doing, through numerous webinars, to ensure that the population is ready for a high vaccination rate. A vaccination rate of 70 % is a minimum. We want to go for more, because we will not be able to reach the population under 18 immediately, although sooner or later we will be able to go to the youth population as soon as the results of the paediatric studies are obtained. This means that we initially draw attention to 18-plussers, but probably by the summer holidays we will also get the dates of the studies in young people and we will also have to continue our vaccination among young people. It is also intended to reach at least 70% in the group of young people, otherwise the virus will continue to circulate in part of the population, which is certainly not the intention. Reference has been made to a study of antibody titres remaining up to eight months after a patient has experienced the infection. However, we do not know what its protective value is. The correlat of protection against COVID-19 is unknown to us. However, we do know that there are breakthrough infections or re-infections. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has calculated and estimated that the average duration of protection after infection is 12 weeks, i.e. three months, which is a short period. That has yet to be confirmed, because it is only an estimate, although from the CDC, so we want to take that into account. Suppose, when we choose not to vaccinate people who have been through the disease, that all those people become susceptible by September-October, then we have no group immunity. It is therefore an important choice to also offer these people the vaccine. The 21 days/42 days offers us opportunities for some residential care centers now, but also purely from a logistical point of view. Where those 21 days are not reached and where it is more practical to give the second vaccine after 28 days, for example, that flexibility can be built in. So we don't have to pin ourselves on those 21 days, which is a huge advantage. Our plan is dynamic and flexible and that helps. A very fair question from Mrs Merckx was whether vaccination against the variants helps. There are a lot of variants in circulation. Firstly, we must not forget that a large part of the phase 3 studies have been carried out in the presence of a number of variants. The efficacy of 94 % and of 95 % in Moderna and Pfizer occurred in South Africa, among others in Brazil and, among others, in Europe, where a number of variants were already circulating. Secondly, what is the specific efficacy against the variant that is now mainly present in the United Kingdom and South Africa? We do not have any data on this at the moment. This is being developed on the basis of different models, not only purely in the lab, but also on the basis of the identification of the infections that people have experienced in phase 3. Were those random variants or not? That's under investigation. We had a public hearing yesterday, including Pfizer. That point is on his research agenda and, of course, is a very important one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u91	Mr Van Damme, could you please close up? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u92	Mr President, I'm almost there. Can the event sector be enabled? It is up to the local authorities and the first-line zones to do so. This is part of their mandate or tasks. A brief discussion has been made on production capacity. That's a very logical idea. However, Mr Dogné will confirm that it will easily take one or two years to approve a production plant at all levels of the production of a vaccine. This cannot simply serve as a quick solution; the idea is certainly worth considering. Finally, regarding the comparison between disease and antibodies and the duration of protection, you should know that the disease affects part of our immunity. The germinal centers in the lymph nodes are affected by the virus, affecting the quality of the antibodies but especially the memory of the antibodies of our memory system of our immunity. This also explains why immunity from the disease is temporary, while the purpose of the immunity generated by vaccination is long-term. That must of course be demonstrated. Of course, the antibodies generated by vaccination can always be given a booster vaccination after one year, if necessary. However, I would like to emphasise that there is a very large difference in the effectiveness of the two types of antibodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u93	Thank you, Mr Van Damme. We have to finish now. I thank the experts very much for their presence and their expertise. Their explanation was very useful and interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic325x.u94	Mr President, we in turn thank the members of the committee very much. The meeting was very useful. We also thank Members for their suggestions.
