ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Denis Ducarme, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Friart, Philippe Pivin, Nathalie Gilson.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Vanden Burre, Mr Freilich and Mrs Houtmeyers, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this covid context, we know how much our self-employed, our SMEs, pushed for a significant part of them, by the closures linked to health measures, are at risk or in difficulty. We also know that the greater the number of bankruptcies, the more the community will pay the social mark, with the loss of jobs that it can generate, but also the psychological note in relation to the people, the self-employed who have been crushed by the covid, who have not been able to go through this crisis. And then, very cynically without a doubt, but this is extremely important for the state budget, we will also collectively pay the note with a lack of tax revenues. In view of these elements, it is important to save as many businesses as possible. Together with our colleague, Mr Geens, under the former government, we had taken steps to put in place a moratorium on bankruptcies. The new government re-edited it at the end of the year. But, as we know, these moratoria on bankruptcies are not sufficient tools, given our CRP, which is still very weak. I will come back to that later. Madam President, I have spoken about the moratorium on bankruptcies because we had had at the time, and we have still had a number of opponents in this area in recent times, telling us that the moratorium on bankruptcies should not always be recommended and should not last too long because it could, in turn, lead to other independents and other companies in the infernal spiral of lack of cash flow. We have therefore agreed with Minister M. Van Quickenborne, on the occasion of the rich, long and intense debates that we have had in the Committee on the Economy, the need for the government to put in place a tacit moratorium on bankruptcies, as far as the federal level is concerned, and more specifically as regards tax services, VAT and ONSS. Today, I hope that we will be able to vote for this reform of the PRJ (judicial reorganization procedure). But at the outset, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like to inform you that we are going to table a motion for a resolution next week calling on the government to continue this tacit moratorium on the federal level (VAT, ONSS, etc.). For the state, which today helps these independents and businesses, is often the first to assign those even in bankruptcy. As we alluded to with my group leader, Benoît Piedboeuf, it would not be a matter of seeing the state take back with one hand what it gave with the other. We will therefore, on behalf of the MR Group, ask the government to extend this. Madam President, has it been a combatant's journey to this text, as I was able to read in an article in La Libre Belgique today? I don't know. In any case, it is a rather original formula, since the government relied on a text from the Reform Movement that I tabled last year, with Benoît Piedboeuf, to reform the PRJ. Throughout, and since November in particular, we have had round trips between Parliament and the government on this subject, to give birth, after a second reading in committee, to the text proposed to you here today. I think this has been a very beneficial collaboration between Parliament and the government. The driving force behind this text is, of course, Parliament. The government has come to add a number of amendments and fuel which, I believe, make this text very satisfactory, also from the point of view of the insolvency experts on bankruptcy law that we have been able to question about the final text that we are submitting today. It is a good collaboration to be reissued within the majority, even though we have had tense moments in committee with the opposition. That being said, Madam President, I must say that this collaboration has proved to be extremely beneficial in trying to get the best out of this text. In addition to the colleagues of the majority whom I sincerely want to thank, in particular Minister Van Quickenborne, I will also thank those of the opposition, namely Maxime Prévot, of the CDH, who made very concrete arguments, but also those of the N-VA, who were able to make a useful contribution to this long discussion. I hope that we will be able, on the occasion of the vote which it has enabled us to obtain, to see support for this text, which goes beyond the majority-opposition divide. Indeed, at some point, I believe that common sense is law. And that is what we have tried to develop around this text. As such, I would like to reiterate my thanks to Minister Van Quickenborne for his flexibility and willingness to engage in dialogue with Parliament throughout the proceedings. Indeed, the PRJ – as we have known it so far – has not been able to respond to what it was intended for. The reason is to find in its character far too strict. We have therefore made several relaxations to the new legislation, so that the judicial reorganization procedure can be much more practical for economic operators and their representatives. Let us remember: it was enough for one piece of evidence to be missing from the case file for the judge of the company court to consider an application by PRJ to be inadmissible. In the present case, one of the crucial aspects of the original text is to offer operators the possibility of gradually entering new parts without taking the risk of the PRJ sinking – as was very often the case in the past. I will not go back to the cost of a PRJ in the old system. I would also like to point out that it was not adapted in terms of the digital possibilities now provided for in the reform. A government amendment provides an important element of this new JRP, a preparatory phase unlike the previous JRP. The entrepreneur, the self-employed person, will be more accompanied in the preparation phase of the file to be filed in the company court. That's what was missing. This preparation was arranged between the contractor and his representative, a lawyer, in court. This period was not set. It will now be organized by the project that we are putting forward. Beyond organising and giving insolvency practitioners the opportunity to already have a certain number of contacts with creditors, this will also give the possibility – and this has been at stake in the debate in recent weeks – to see, including in the preparatory phase, suspended claims. Indeed, this preparatory phase is important and confidential. We are aware of the problem in the PRJs of the old model of advertising. This is, of course, a factor which increases negotiations which are possible in the preparatory and confidential phase with certain creditors. We will now have the opportunity – this has been at stake in the intra-majority debate, with the opposition, with Minister Van Quickenborne – to finally foresee, thanks to a last amendment that we have tabled, the possibility that the legal representative can, on a number of claims, already activate the company judge to ask him for coverage and suspension in the preparatory phase. It is a central element that will really give us the opportunity, I hope, to give more perspectives and more opportunities to save companies through these two mechanisms, namely the preparatory phase and the procedure before the company court. What else can we say, except that it was time for us to activate this reform? We were, at European level, below what is proposed elsewhere in Europe. Today, in the context of the covid crisis, a number of neighbouring countries are active in business insolvency and bankruptcy schemes, as recently seen in the Netherlands but also in England. It is clear that the political level, beyond the aid it intends to provide to our economy, must now, as in the future, in relation to the plans of Minister Van Quickenborne in this area, ensure that our small economic operators are more protected. Indeed, this PRJ, is finally human-sized. That wasn't the case. Accompaniment by the legal representative, and the preparatory phase, meet current needs. Today, our self-employed, our SMEs, are partly exsangued financially and morally. We might have wished to link the vote on this reform of the PRJ with the end of the moratorium provided for by the government. We have worked as quickly as possible without artificially accelerating the debates either. I said from the start, there was a second reading; so this text is mature. I think that he will meet his objective, given a form of concord that we may have had with the parties beyond the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u5	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a corporate debt moratorium is a blunt instrument that undermines the precarious balance between creditors and debtors. This threatens creditors to become tomorrow's debtors and could effectively create a negative spiral of bankruptcies. Our group has already called for a government initiative on the temporary relaxation of the rules on judicial reorganisation as a better alternative in setting up the first corporate debt Moratorium. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that the previous but also the current government did not play the ball faster, because for many companies this is really a matter of life and death. We note that the Wilmès II Government has failed to implement the measures, and the Vivaldire agreement does not actually show any sign of agreements during the formation of the government on the subject. We do not suspect and therefore think that you have only been shot into action, when the second wave of hospitalizations had to be set up. When we discussed this, we once again called for a number of relaxations to be made in the procedures of judicial reorganisation. Minister, you promised me that you would do your best in December in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to have such a package of measures ready by 31 January when the debt Moratorium was to be terminated. Today we are already six weeks later and that second moratorium has already passed smoothly. Many companies have been in uncertainty since then. That uncertainty hangs them above their heads like a sword of Damocles. After all, some of these companies are still not allowed to start their activities or may only be partially restarted by the infamous ministerial decisions of your colleague, Mr Verlinden. Since 31 January, there is also the possibility that one of their unpaid creditors will subpoena them in bankruptcy. Although the government states that it will not do so as a creditor, the government is not usually the only creditor. We are thinking, for example, of the banks. Even though solidarity in society and other companies is high and a summons to bankruptcy may not occur very often in practice, the highly uncertain situation makes many entrepreneurs fear today. It feels like the barrel of a gun to their sleep, while they're not allowed to do anything right now. It is a bit of good news that there is now finally a politically feasible proposal on the table, which seeks to adapt the procedures of judicial reorganisation. Better late than never, we may say. The bill contains a number of acceptable, temporary relaxations and also a few good, final adjustments to our insolvency proceedings. We will therefore fully support these relaxations and adjustments. However, we have some reservations. During the discussion in committee, however, the opinions obtained showed criticism. In addition, the opinion of the Council of State and the legislative opinion of the Legal Service of the Chamber gave rise to a number of amendments, which were often pushed under our noses by the majority. So there is no doubt that the text will still not be carried out. It is fortunate that the most far-reaching measures are only temporary and that the law provides for an evaluation, in addition to the possibility of extending a number of measures. It is, of course, very unfortunate, Minister, that the evaluation and its extension are unilaterally delegated to you in the legislative text. So you are taking Parliament out of the picture. Okay, better one bird in the hand than ten in the air for our businesses. It is also in that light that we from the opposition have worked constructively on the legislative proposal and have ensured that it can also be dealt with quickly. The new possibility of the preparatory agreement is the N-VA's affection, but we believe that the potential pitfalls must be considered. This new way for companies to get out of solvency problems must not lead to abuse or disadvantage for certain creditors. For example, the tacit nature of the preparatory agreement can be questioned. Is there not, after all, a risk that an approached creditor would not want to join in a solution and at the same time opt for his money by carrying out his claims? Such manoeuvres can seriously harm ignorant creditors and sometimes put companies in difficulty in tight shoes. Will the preparatory agreement not lead to more procedures for judicial organisation? Are there enough judges in company cases to deal with those files? With the modest remuneration they receive, do they have time to deal with those very labour-intensive dossiers on preparatory agreements? Among other things, the Institute of Business Revisors and Febelfin clearly warn that flexible conditions around the preparatory agreement can lead to more abuse and even fraud. So here's the message. In addition, will the proposed measures have such a high impact that bankruptcies are avoided? In the coming months and years, however, it is mainly the attitude of banks as lenders and, in the event of solvency problems, also the attitude of the public authorities and banks as creditors, which will be decisive in this respect. The future will tell you that. The N-VA will therefore abstain from the legislative proposal. We are certainly giving the preparatory agreement an opportunity, looking forward to how it will be applied in practice in the coming months, and we certainly hope that you will use the delegation granted to you with the legislative proposal to adjust, where necessary, and to extend the measures only if they really prove to be an added value for the survival of our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group. As has been pointed out, we are in an exceptional context. We are facing extremely serious difficulties. We are facing the greatest external economic shock since the Second World War. Some economists even think it goes back a long way before it. The most fragile economic structures of our economy, i.e. small structures, are hit with full force and in the first place. I am thinking of SMEs, TPEs, self-employed people, sectors that have had to close down and some of which have been able to resume their activities, unlike others. The situation on the ground is quite dramatic. This is why, for many months, a range of emergency measures have been taken. They were necessary. They were set up by the previous government and taken over by that government. Most of these measures are now extended until the end of June. One of these measures concerns the reform of the judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ), which has been explained in detail by our colleague Ducrame, whom I thank for his initiative and for being the first signatory of this bill. In general, flexibility was needed, in particular for SMEs, to make this PRJ simpler, more accessible and therefore more efficient, by allowing companies in great difficulty to reorganize rather than have to declare bankruptcy. In fact, a bankruptcy is always a human and personal failure, but it also has a negative impact in terms of employment and therefore social. The text under consideration provides for an emergency mechanism since it is still in the context of the covid crisis. But structurally, we will also have to move towards a simpler PRJ. I would like to take this opportunity to say a word about the discussions, the context around the moratorium on bankruptcies. As has been pointed out by several colleagues, a moratorium had been put in place by the previous government, was taken over by that government and was stopped for a while. It stopped on 31 January last year and had as its obviously commendable objective to avoid cascading bankruptcies, in particular companies that were healthy before the covid crisis. But such a general moratorium, as was the case, could also – it was the risk – put other companies in difficulty, typically suppliers, which of course was not the objective. It could therefore be understood that there was a need to reorient to a different range of measures, since no measure was the panacea in this type of context. This text comes a few weeks after the end of the moratorium on bankruptcies. Minister Van Quickenborne, but also yesterday in the parliamentary committee, Finance Minister Vincent Van Peteghem, pledged that the state, through the ONSS and VAT administrations, would not mention bankrupt companies in court. This commitment is made until the end of this month. That's what the Minister of Finance told me. This is a good thing, especially since today about 80% of bankrupt quotes come from the state. Therefore, if the de facto State does not cite before the court, there is a "partial" moratorium which is still very important and which remains very broad. In my view, this is an important complementary measure in this case. All these measures are positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u7	Mr Vanden Burre, you point out a fundamental point: the question of the public moratorium. If it is to see this government and its tax administration, VAT or ONSS, even after the end of the month, start again assigning independents, companies, who will still be on their knees, that is not the case. We know how much our economy is hit by this crisis. Mr. Van Peteghem explained that this moratorium would be limited at the end of the month. It will probably be up to us to ask the government that this tacit moratorium go beyond the end of the month. It's fundamental. I hope that in the coming days we will be able to speak on this subject in order to join us on this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u8	I exchanged on this with Minister Van Peteghem yesterday in committee. Our request is to be able to reassess things and not to set March 31 as an absolute deadline. The situation is dramatic and needs to be evaluated month by month. This moratorium on the fact that the state does not cite bankruptcy is indeed a complementary measure that we support. For us, we must give ourselves the opportunity to evaluate it and, if necessary, extend it. The situation must, of course, be analysed very closely and we will pay attention to it. I welcome the fact that this complementarity has been created between all the measures. This is fundamental in the current context. Our group will continue to support initiatives to avoid as many business and SME failures as possible that were healthy before the covid crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, not easy to find a suitable instrument in these difficult times with a particularly severe economic crisis that is raging over our country and many companies that are in difficult papers. As we all know, the bankruptcy Moratorium ended on 31 January and the government decided not to extend it. I understand it wasn't a good instrument. Better than nothing, it was then. However, we must ensure that a creditor does not become a debtor himself tomorrow. This legislation is primarily intended to be more low-threshold, yet I remain critical of the time span between the end of the last bankruptcy Moratorium and the start of this new legislation which has put us in some sort of vacuum. I believe that this is also due to the fact that this legislation has remained in place for too long. I'll tell you why. Last year, on 11 June, the urgency of this bill was given in plenary, but we left it behind for months. I understand the Minister when he says that his colleagues have worked hard on the amendments needed to improve the text, but we believe that this has wasted a great deal of time. This means that we are now in a vacuum and that there is nothing at all now. It is then said that the FPS Finance will not proceed to subpoenas in failure. That may well be, that's very noble, but as we all know, any interested party can sue for bankruptcy. I am thinking, among other things, of banks and suppliers. I've had conversations with several company auditors in the past period. They all say that this vacuum is irresponsible in times when a lot of companies are in difficulty and are even obliged to close down until today. That is certainly a necessity which must of course be laid down by law. It is said that not all documents should initially be present in order to obtain an admissibility of the file. That's a good thing. For small businesses, the threshold may still be too high, because in any case, a company must consult financial experts to file a case before the court, even if certain documents can only be submitted later. My concern remains, however, until today, that some entrepreneurs may wait too long before they submit the dossier, which will eventually drown the calf. Mr Ducarme has just said that the opposition has cooperated constructively. He didn't mention us, but we certainly did. We have tried very constructively to contribute to the debate in committee. We did not even make it difficult when the translation of the text of the Council of State was not there because, in the end, we understood the need for legislation in this area. We approved the text at that time, and we will, of course, do so today, although with the concerns I have just expressed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u10	Madam President, the purpose of the bill is to facilitate access to the judicial reorganization procedure for small businesses. This is an objective that the PTB can obviously adhere to. So there is a whole series of provisions in this bill that we can support. I will briefly mention a few of them: - Simplification of formal requirements for access to the judicial reorganization procedure, which will make it more accessible to small businesses. - The new preparatory agreement procedure, with the intervention of a judicial representative, to facilitate the conclusion of an amicable agreement or to draw up a reorganization plan. This procedure takes place at some discretion, as the procedure is not published. During this procedure, the president of the court may grant terms and time limits to the debtor, for the payment of all or part of the debts. - The possibility of shifting from the new preparatory agreement procedure to a shorter judicial reorganization procedure. However, it is necessary to take into account the context in which the vote on this bill takes place. The moratorium on bankruptcy ended on January 31, 2021. The government believes that the bill is a sufficient response to the end of the moratorium on bankruptcies. The PTB absolutely does not share this view. The small independents on the ground don't share it either. At the end of January and the beginning of February, we held hearings, and we heard representatives of the independents and sectors who are still under arrest because of the health measures. They told us that the moratorium on bankruptcies should be extended, at least for companies that are still closed. For the UCM, as long as the restrictive measures last, the support of the public authorities must be prolonged; and the moratorium is an essential element. That is why the PTB had tabled an amendment to extend the moratorium on bankruptcy by three months, but no other party supported it. On this issue of the extension of the moratorium, a dividing line emerged between, on the one hand, the large companies, rather represented by the FEB, and, on the other, the small independents, particularly defended by the Union of the Middle Classes. For Pierre-Frédéric Nyst, president of the UCM, the theory defended by large companies, which is a macroeconomic theory that says that a form of sanitation is, from time to time, not bad, is inconceivable and incomprehensible for independents and small structures. When a big company breaks its face, you don't have to sell the CEO's house. Today, the crisis clearly shows the divergence of interests between, on the one hand, independents and SMEs, and, on the other hand, large companies. But on this issue of extending the moratorium on bankruptcies, it must be noted that the majority, but also the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u11	Madam President, I would like to point out to Mr D'Amico that we have effectively supported his amendment on the bankruptcy Moratorium. I believe that the truth has its rights, and I would like to make that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u12	Excuse me for this mistake. I therefore remove the Vlaams Belang from the list of parties that had not supported the text. With regard to the extension of the moratorium on bankruptcies, it should be noted that the majority and the N-VA preferred to align themselves with the position of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) and to let the independents down. DéFI also defended the extension of the moratorium. In fact, you want to defend the independents, as long as their interests are not in contradiction with those of the sacrosanct FEB. At the moment of the decisive choice, you all obey the FEB. Only the PTB resists and defends the independents. Although we find that the bill contains positive elements, we will abstain from voting because we believe that this bill does not provide a satisfactory response to the context, which is characterized by the end of the moratorium on bankruptcy on January 31. In addition, some companies – particularly in the horeca and culture sectors – are still shutting down due to health measures. In practice, the reform of the judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ) will not be sufficient to enable small independents to overcome difficulties. Indeed, to be able to use the PRJ or the new preparatory agreement procedure, there must be a minimum of perspective. However, what are the prospects for a coffee maker whose establishment is closed? More action is needed. We need more help. The independents stressed this during the hearings: the aid is insufficient and does not cover fixed costs. A new testimony was published in the press last week: for a horeca establishment, direct aids - all levels of power - represent barely 30% of the costs. We recognize that the bill contains positive elements, but it does not meet the challenges. Therefore, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u13	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text which is being put to the vote today and which is intended to broaden support for the judicial reorganization procedure is in the right direction. However, the cdH group, if it votes the text, keeps a little bitterness. How can we fully support a text which, in its intentions, is good but which, in our view, does not go far enough in its implementation? Let us take the chronology of the facts of this bill! On June 10, nine months ago now, the bill that is being put to the vote today is being tabled in the House. The emergency is requested and it is obtained the next day. Subsequently, on 15 June, the Chamber sought an urgent opinion from the Council of State within 30 days. Meanwhile, on 17 June, Mr Friart, co-author of the bill, read out the developments of the proposal in committee. On 8 July, the Council of State, clearly aware of the importance and urgency of the text, delivered an opinion on the text. Then nothing. How long? Until November 10, when Mr. Ducrame exhumed the bill, which fell into oblivion so quickly. Finally, the law returns to commission at the end of January. I would remind you that this is a text for which urgent action was requested in June. It was then held in February and March with adoptions at first and second reading in committee. So far there's nothing amazing, you might think. We are finally in the normal process of passing a bill. I would like to clarify a bill. In the blink of an eye, out of parliamentary solidarity, I dare say, it is good to remind him because at today's reading of La Libre Belgique, one would almost tend to think that it is a bill. It was by parliamentarians that this text was put forward, and not by the ministers who used it! However, there is also a need to consider the reasons for the urgency put forward by the MR last June. The first moratorium on bankruptcy ended on 17 June. This is probably not the fruit of a coincidence – and that is normal. In short, the bill as introduced in June was first of all intended to reassure businesses on the mode "don't be afraid!'. Mr Ducrame, then Minister for SMEs and the Middle Classes, put an end to the moratorium on bankruptcies. At the same time, we are presenting a bill to strengthen the protection of companies in difficulty under the CRP. CQFD. The fact that this proposal came out of the January backlog was also irrelevant, in the light of a text for which the urgency had been requested in June. The reason was that we were coming to the end of the second moratorium put in place by the government. The proposal originally introduced, I would like to say, was intended to be extremely strong and equipped with a powerful engine: its Article 5. It creates a genuine system of protection for the debtor by allowing the company in difficulty a genuine break to solve its liquidity problems. The objective was clear: to ensure that the debtor, under the supervision of the court and, if necessary, with the assistance of a business mediator, would benefit from the temporary facilities. The obligation to pay – that is to say to meet its commitments – remained whole, but suspended without a sanction being imposed. There were, however, also protections for the creditor. Indeed, it was possible for the president of the court to modulate this suspension in order to safeguard certain interests such as those of a supplier who was himself in great difficulty because of the suspension, for example. In short, what was originally proposed was a real shield, although it was probably not infallible to protect the thousands of companies that will have to deal with difficulties related to the covid crisis in the coming weeks and months. In this regard, according to the Graydon study office, it is no less than 50,000 companies that are at risk of bankruptcy in 2021, compared to 10,000 in normal times, a figure that can only make us shudder. However, it was not our surprise, through Amendment No 6 of the majority, to see the majority move back on its own text. Indeed, it was proposed by Mrs Verhelst and Mr Ducarme that article 5 should be withdrawn no more or less from the original draft law. Why? They still do not seem very clear to us today, despite the more or less convincing argumentation efforts tinted with some Coué method. According to the Minister of Justice, this section was deleted as a result of the advice of the Council of State on the matter. However, while it is true that the opinion of the Council of State led to the need to rework this article, it should not be deleted. Then the problem of the chronology of facts remains. The Council of State had delivered its opinion on 8 July, while the various bodies consulted had all already submitted their opinions. Therefore, why such a late adaptation of the text? In short, the explanation of the reference to the Council of State is not valid. We believe – this is the polite formula – that, thanks to the noises of the corridor, this is more the result of a divergence of opinion within the majority about the basic text, even if, of course, out of loyalty, the Minister of Justice will have taken great care not to confirm this dissension. That is why, through amendments tabled at first reading, I proposed, among other things, the reintroduction of Article 5. While this article had shortcomings, it offered at least the prospect of avoiding an avalanche of bankruptcies. Finally, the opposition came to the aid of the majority's own text. If he didn't have his mask to hide it, I'm sure even Mr. Ducrame would be laughing at it. But the minister, aware that the law could not have an engine to propose through a majority amendment, was also unable to put back the powerful engine removed by the amendment of Mrs Verhelst and Mr Ducarme. So something had to be done to be able, despite everything, to put an engine in the vehicle, less powerful, certainly, in the end but at last an engine still. All right. It was not the power of the engine that we had originally hoped for and that you yourself proposed. We deplore him. But it's better than nothing and we'll support it. However, the law remains perfectable. That is why, beyond this debate on Article 5, we also proposed a number of additions to the text of the law with a view to strengthening the legal and economic security of the debtor, as well as that of the creditor in the context of the crisis of the covid-19 and its consequences for the Belgian economic fabric. First, we wanted the debtor in difficulty to have such extensive protection at the time of filing his application for judicial reorganization procedure (PRJ) as when the judicial reorganization procedure is initiated by the court. For the time being, article 44, § 1, of Book XX of the Code of Economic Law provides certain protections against the debtor, since an application for judicial reorganization proceedings has been lodged by him with the court. However, as soon as the judicial reorganization procedure has been initiated by the court, this protection is strengthened, in accordance with section 6, on the effects of the reorganization decision. Thus, for example, no seizure may be made of the charge of suspensory debts during the stay, in accordance with Article 51 § 1 of this book XX. If reference is made to article 46, § 1, of Book XX, "the court shall be responsible for examining the application for judicial reorganization within 15 days of its filing in the register". In fact, therefore, the extension of protection that we wanted only concerned an extremely limited period of 15 additional days, and prior to the opening of the PRJ by the court. It is also a practice that is applicable in other countries, such as the United States. But this tabled amendment has been wiped out with one turn of the way. Secondly, the second amendment tabled: we wanted to make legal changes to the principle of extra-security claims. While, in fact, between the filing of the application for judicial reorganization and the final judgment of the court, it appears that the list of suspensory claims is evolving, it also appears that the latter often only evolves at the margin in the normal period. However, in view of the particular economic crisis we are experiencing, the number of extra-survival claims that may arise as a result of this pandemic and the imposed confinement could explode. Therefore, for the purpose of legal protection of the debtor, it was also proposed by the CDH to legally ensure this mechanism. We proposed that the delegated judge appointed under the CRP could change the list of creditors. A new amendment, alas, swept away by the majority. Finally, we wanted to see a State-guaranteed lending mechanism in the framework of this PRJ. If in the course of the economic crisis we are going through, extensive protection must be provided to the debtor during the judicial reorganization procedure, it is not appropriate, on the other hand, to postpone the problem on creditors by domino effect. That is why, within the framework of the guarantees that could be provided by the State, we proposed that the government should be able to grant its guarantee on specific loans envisaged in the judicial reorganization procedure. These loans would be contracted by the debtor, allowing it to repay its creditors and thus reinject liquidity into the economic system. Of course, we were proposing a minimum framework for these loans, but we were explicitly planning that the federal government would be able to provide them at a minimum of 95%, otherwise the banks would not have played the game; and that the government would bear the interest charges associated with these loans up to an interest rate of up to 2%. The majority again refused this amendment, which was intended to be constructive, like the others, and whose aim was indeed to improve the original text. In short, you will have understood this, and I am sure that the author of the text is himself partially married for not having been able to validate our proposal, the cdH group will indeed vote for this text, with a little taste of too little. While opposition and majority could have found themselves on a constructive piece of legislation for the whole country, the opportunity was not fully seized. There has, of course, been attention to our proposals. Finally, and Mr Ducrame has had the correction to stress this, the return of Article 5, albeit atrophied, is largely rooted in the arguments that we have been able to develop. Thank you, Mr. Ducarme and the Minister of Justice, for being sensitive. We would have liked to go further, but we are measuring the interest and progress of this text. For the rest, let us beware that this text must finally apply as little as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was recalled at length that the moratorium on bankruptcies ended on 31 January. I wanted to remind you once again, because this decision had the effect of increasing the already too great anxieties of all those companies that were already going bankrupt, drowned by the debts to be paid and the fixed costs to be covered. I have had the opportunity to question on several occasions in committee both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Employment about the concrete solutions that the government intended to propose to companies to enable them to keep their heads out of the water, despite everything. It was at that time that the government issued the agreement that had just been sealed with the ONSS and the tax authorities, by which they undertook not to mention the bankrupt companies. It was therefore a tacit moratorium - which had the merit of existence, that is true. I am delighted, moreover, to hear from Mr Vanden Burre that he will be extended until the end of the month - at the earliest. However, this tacit moratorium does not bind other creditors except the State or the Public Prosecutor's Office. They can therefore continue to cite bankrupt companies. In addition, it does not take into account debtors, who are legally obliged to apply for bankruptcy from the Registry of the Commercial Court within one month of their termination of payment. All this to say that the reform of the judicial reorganization procedure, which had been announced by the government, was expected. The aim of the project was to extend the conditions for access, thus enabling more firms in difficulty to benefit from it. Moreover, this reform was well received by professionals, since this procedure is still unknown, but also too complex and often traumatic and stressful for traders. It was also time to give the judge greater discretion as to how to dissolve a business. As some of us have already pointed out, the bill that was finally introduced by the majority colleagues has different objectives. First, the reform aims to facilitate access by small and medium-sized enterprises to the judicial reorganization procedure. Previously, one of the major pitfalls to be raised by managers was that the PRJ was often used by large companies, but not by SMEs. In this regard, I would like to point out that the current legislation on the PRJ is relatively binding, as it requires the filing of numerous documents with the competent court. The proposal for a reform thus suggests that this procedure should be reduced and made more accessible, on the one hand, by allowing companies to submit the necessary documents during the proceedings - up to 48 hours before the creditors vote - and, on the other hand, by abandoning the penalty of inadmissibility if the documents are not finally filed by the debtor. A second major change in this text is the possibility of resorting to mediation without publication of the procedure in the Belgian Monitor. This means that, in practice, the PRJ will allow companies in difficulty to negotiate discreetly with creditors before any public proceeding. Finally, the reform intends to extend the tax exemption for creditors, with the aim of encouraging amicable agreements. As I said, these flexibilities were indispensable. Nevertheless, several areas of shadow remain. First, there is still a risk that some companies will start a PRJ while they have very little hope for recovery. Secondly, one may also wonder whether the flexibilities provided for in the reform are ultimately at the service of the debtors or the company in difficulty. Indeed, if the debtor is no longer able to draw up the documents essential to the survival of his company, such as the balance sheets, the accounting situation of the company, his budget, the list of his creditors or the reorganization plan, the judicial reorganization might not succeed and thus not proceed with the reorganization of the company which would then benefit all the parties. Finally, the question is also whether the easing of the judicial reorganization procedure will really, as the government has repeatedly told us, make up for the lifting of the moratorium on bankruptcies. The tacit moratorium does not apply to all creditors. It therefore does not respond to all the debtors' situations today in difficulty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we would have preferred that the moratorium on bankruptcies, the real one, be maintained for as long as necessary, as long as the sectors are halted or at least until the entry into force of this reform, because only this moratorium is capable of providing genuine legal certainty to the independents affected by the crisis. On the other hand, we are responsible, and we know very well that this moratorium could not last indefinitely, in particular in order to avoid a domino effect harmful to other companies, as Mr Ducrame rightly pointed out. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this reform of the judicial reorganization procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u15	Very briefly, after all these good words and rallies to this project, I thank Mr Prévot for reminding us of the history of the parliamentary work which, it is true, has been long and laborious. Today, we can do it and we can't do it too late, because some companies are already in trouble, but others are going to be in trouble soon. So this project is really good at it. With regard to some of the points raised by my colleagues, as the Prime Minister pointed out earlier in answering questions, supplementary federal aid will be proposed. In particular, we mentioned earlier the problems of hedging capital defaults. The government will make proposals, also for the horeca sector. Other colleagues such as Denis Ducrame recalled the need for a moratorium on public creditors. Of course, we are going to do it. There is still a small area of shadow which needs to be clarified and which my colleague, Mr Prévot, has mentioned. This is, of course, the period between the introduction of the procedure and the decision of the judge. This period is not covered by this bill because there are no real risks, but I would like you to confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interventions. Thanks also for the work that has been done. In particular, I wanted to thank you and explain how it worked. I think it is unique for the government to focus on a bill in Parliament. This shows respect for the trias politica (separation of powers), in the sense that the first power is Parliament and the second, the government. I say this without any cynicism because a bill was introduced last summer by colleagues Piedboeuf, Friart and Pivin, as well as by the first author, Mr Ducrame. As soon as I arrived in the government on 1 October, my collaborators and I found that preparatory work had already been done, and we began to do so. I would like to thank these colleagues for introducing this proposal. I would like to thank these colleagues, since this important proposal gives a perspective, in particular, to those sectors that have problems at the moment. Secondly, I would like to thank all my fellow Members, in particular all the colleagues from the opposition who have contributed to this. Mrs Houtmeyers, you have worked very constructively, for which I would like to thank you. Moreover, the second reading requested by you has proved very useful and I think we have accepted most of the comments. I am also thinking of the attitude of the members of the majority and the opposition who did not wait for the Council of State to be translated. Madam President, I would like to say that the Council of State needed nineteen days for the urgent opinion, for which the deadline is normally five days. I have a great deal of respect and estem for the Council of State, who am I to question that authority? In this case, it's not a pandemic-related law. But if we have to wait nineteen days before we can take a measure, when it has to be done quickly, then there may be some reflections. I thank Mr Vanden Burre, who has asked relevant questions about the moratorium. I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Verhelst for the amendments that have been tabled. It was the merit of the committee that it was able to deal with an important piece of work rather quickly. The most important thing is that we want to respond with this proposal to an economic situation that is currently dramatic. An unprecedented crisis has affected our companies and the turnover of many companies has been hit hard. Sectors are still closed and some will be for a long time to come. I am thinking, among other things, of the event sector, which is going through very heavy weather. I believe that there is a great deal of support from the government and also from the Länder for these sectors, whether willingly or unwillingly. We are trying to do what we have always promised, in particular to ensure that companies that were healthy before the crisis can survive even after the crisis. Everyone asks whether it is the silence before the storm and when the storm will come. When will we see the wave of bankruptcy before the various corporate courts? I cannot answer that question at the moment. You are all aware of the figures presented by Graydon and the VBO, which indicate serious economic damage to tens of thousands of companies. Will this initiative be late? Mr Prévot made the history of this proposal and stressed the urgency of the situation. Mrs Houtmeyers pointed out that it took some time before the proposal was discussed here, even though I had promised to do so quickly. But colleagues, the current government has acted very quickly. We took office on 1 October 2020 and were very quickly confronted with a second wave, which struck everywhere. We immediately decided to declare a second moratorium. We discussed this in Parliament, and it came into force in December 2020 after it had been approved here and lasted until the end of January 2021. We then put all the good-looking heads and stakeholders around the table in order to work out an alternative. We have taken the necessary time to do so. Our specialists, including the great experts on insolvency... I will not mention names.. have even worked during the Christmas holidays. We needed that time. I recall that as an ambitant minister I harassed my cabinet in response to a remark in Parliament on the extent to which the insolvency regime was in place, before, during and after Christmas holidays. You may ask my cabinet how much I complained about it. I was promised that the text could be submitted before 31 January 2021. We did that. The text was submitted on 29 January 2021. Madam President, we then moved on very quickly to the debate. It is remarkable that at six weeks' time, thanks to your services and good cooperation, we in Parliament have managed to put such an important piece of work to the vote. The question that persists is: is it too late? Is it too late? If we look back, we have to note that today there is de facto a moratorium on bankruptcies. Mr Van Lommel, you pointed out that not only the public authorities can sue for bankruptcy, but that there are also private actors. The reality is, according to the figures on the ground, that there is a moratorium. That's right on the side of the government, at the Treasury, the RSZ, the parquet. There is also a moratorium on the side of the banks. We can see that today's bankruptcy rates are very low, namely at December and January when the moratorium was still in force. Of course, that's the silence before the storm. It is, of course, always easy to say, looking back, that a formal moratorium in the first and second stages was not necessary, given the responsible attitude of the government and of the banks. All in all, I think that this text comes in time, that is my answer. The underlying idea of the bill is that we want to better protect companies from bankruptcy, firstly, by relaxing the existing judicial reorganisation and lowering the thresholds. This certainly has advantages, especially for SMEs. In particular, the cost of formalities in the traditional judicial reorganisation is too high for SMEs, for small businesses. The mandatory prior intervention of the auditor, which required a cash payment, is now being relaxed. As a result, the judicial reorganisation has become more accessible to small businesses, as called in the Netherlands, SMEs, and SMEs in our country. That is an important step. Secondly, without publicity, a preliminary agreement along the lines of the American example, the pre-packaged banking, will be possible. This is crucial in order to give the negotiations every opportunity. Mrs Houtmeyers, the tacit nature will certainly not allow creditors to choose eggs for their money by impounding them quickly, because, following Mr Ducarme's amendment, Article 39/1 (3) gives just the possibility to the right-holder to keep creditors at bay by imposing payment deadlines. I listened very carefully, particularly to Mr Prévot's remarks on the urgency. I answered it. The question is, are we going far enough? Is the engine in the machine, in the car, strong? You referred in particular to the famous Article 5 on what I would call the mini-suspense, which was, it is true, introduced in the original proposal by Mr Ducrame et al. We have studied all the opinions that have been given, in particular by the Council of State, but also, and this is even more important to me, by the presidents of the corporate courts, Febelfin and lawyers.be. You greatly appreciate lawyers.be, since I have often seen that you have introduced amendments following interventions by lawyers.be What did they say? The substance of the criticism is the risk of abuse with Article 5 as drafted at that time, i.e. no maximum time limit and no clear criteria. From this came the fear of abuse, in addition, of course, to the many remarks made by the Council of State. Have we been deaf to the idea of mini-suspense? No. Mr Ducrame introduced an amendment to include the idea of a mini-suspense in the preliminary agreement. Finally, we have found a good balance, which also protects, at the request of the judicial officer, these companies. Mr Prévot, I am not going to go back to other proposals, such as the guarantee rules. You have already developed them in the committee. I believe that this government, in particular in agreement with the banking sector, through the "bazooka" measures, provides for a system. But of course it is up to you to discuss it in the Finance Committee. I would also like to address the question raised by the group leader, my friend Mr Piedboeuf, particularly on the famous eight days. I will read a little text to explain my answer: "The preparatory agreement procedure, the pre-pack, is a procedure designed to facilitate negotiations between the debtor and its creditors, as well as to speed up the subsequent judicial reorganization procedure. However, this procedure does not provide an automatic stay and therefore does not constitute automatic protection against creditors. When the implementation of a seizure-execution is already well advanced and the sale by the bailiff is already fixed, the procedure of judicial reorganization which gives full protection from the filing of the application is more appropriate. But for all other situations, the preparatory agreement procedure is well suited. Indeed, the court agent has the opportunity to request that terms and/or time limits be granted commensurate with the needs of the debtor. Normally, the eight-day period, between the application and his appointment, does not pose a problem in practice, because the period for the implementation of a seizure-execution and therefore the sale of the seized property is at least one month, in accordance with article 15.124 of the Judicial Code." Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is this the end? Of course not. The evaluation's coming up. It is true, Mrs Houtmeyers, that that evaluation sensu stricto must be made by the Minister, but I would be happy to do so in consultation with the Committee on Economic Affairs. I think it is good to have a debate on this in committee before the date expires. The date is now fixed in June, but let us be honest, we may still be in the same situation, with de facto a kind of moratorium. I can imagine that we may not yet see much use of this system, as long as the economy is not really getting back on track and there are still many covid measures. I don't know how long that'll take. We must make the evaluation at that time. I will not do that alone, we will do that with specialists. I am committed to doing the same with you, with the Economics Committee. You rightly asked the question about the company courts. Will they be able to cope with the influx of records? We will soon have budgetary control. I have committed myself to releasing part of the EUR 125 million additional resources for Justice to strengthen the corporate courts, both for the judiciary, the support, and the judges in business cases, so that we have sufficient capacity to deal with the influx of files. Finally, of course, there is also European legislation, such as the 2019 Restructuring Directive, to be transposed by this summer. We are also preparing for this transposition. Of course, we will have to take that into account. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interesting debate we have had in a relatively short time. Thank you for the openness of the majority versus the opposition and vice versa. Thank you for the initiative, which the government has fully supported. I hope, together with you, that the new instruments will protect our companies better in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u17	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u18	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1337/13) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1337/13) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending Book XX of the Code of Economic Law and the Income Tax Code 1992". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending Book XX of the Economic Law Code and the Income Tax Code 1992." The bill has 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u19	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u20	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Ben Accour, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today there is yet another draft law on the capacity compensation mechanism. We have already discussed very extensively in committee the various elements of the whole story and I will not repeat everything. My objection to the activation of pieces of legislation that enable the government to take almost every possible measure against the communist, without too much control, is one aspect that I will not go into again. The fact that there is still no approval from Europe, which means that certain things will have to be moved around and perhaps reversed along the way, can also be read in the Committee's undoubtedly excellent report. I would like to comment on the concept itself. We held an extensive debate on the original CRM law in 2019 and the now almost famous CRM resolution was also discussed here. In addition, we have asked the follow-up committee to give more explanation. However, we are still very concerned about the basis for this. I believe that everyone, across all groups, will be talking today about the security of supply, the sustainability and affordability of the whole system. Of course, every party in this hemisphere fills that in a different way. I am not necessarily talking only about Elijah and the CREG, where the water is still deep, but also about the fact that every group here today will take the floor on various elements. I have to say that we have not yet reached a very high level of acceptance. According to a number of parties, nuclear power stations must be completely shut down and we must build other capacity in return. The main focus is on gas capacity, although sometimes with some reluctance. For other parties, the nuclear power plants can simply close and there is no need to replace them at all. At the same time, the CREG's proposals to make all this possible should remain in the closet. For others, it is my party that should not close down all nuclear power stations in 2025, so that we can limit the number of gas plants for electricity production in our country to the strict minimum. I believe that all the groups believe that security of supply should be first and foremost, but I believe a lot less that any proposal we have heard in committee will be equally successful in achieving that. I am sure that, given the current situation, we will have a debate later on on the elimination of windmills and negative prices. I suspect that this will already be in the preparation of the Minister, so I will anticipate this all of a sudden: that does not really concern the problem we have been debating all along when it comes to nuclear power plants. We all heard in the hearing that Elijah indicated that keeping two gigawatts open to nuclear power stations is not a problem at all for flexibility in that area and that there will be no problem in that regard. Speaking of which, however, it seems interesting to me that the Minister should also comment on the situation of interconnection today. After all, I noticed that the interconnection, for which you plugged in a few months ago, to Germany stood a whole day at zero. It has not been used for a whole day, although at that time in Germany lignite was still being deprived. At that time we could not carry power to Germany. The same applies to a piece for France, let me say, in the sense that more than 2 gigawatts of the capacity of the interconnection have not been used there. If you would like to address the problem of negative prices and wind energy, Madam Minister, I would also like you to shed some light on the problem of transmission capacity, which could not be used. I'm going back to CRM. The government has chosen to take the slopes to shut down nuclear power plants and, among other things, build gas plants. There is an agreement within the government on this for the time being. There are also parties within the government that say something else. I understand we have to wait to see which way that goes. I wonder whether the piste chosen by the government has a strong support for the citizen. Is this what the citizen has chosen, what he is waiting for? The last time a poll or a survey was conducted by Kantar TNS turned out to be a small minority of the population supporting that vision. About 12% of respondents thought it was a good idea to replace nuclear power plants with gas plants. The government has therefore listened mainly to this 12%. The question is, what about everyone else? We have already discussed in committee the CO2 impact of that choice, knowing that today we have an emissions trading system with surplus allowances, about 2.7 billion tonnes of CO2, of which about half is in the market stability reserve. As it now seems, the current system makes that there will be no compensation at all for what these gas plants will emit. That will undoubtedly run out of surpluses, but it does not oblige anyone to emit less at the end of the journey. We also discussed this in committee. It is then said that the system must be adjusted so that it is compensated. We shall see what this whole exercise brings about, especially in view of the fact that there will be additional surpluses in that system as a result of the corona crisis. The question then is where that goes. I wonder whether it is not easier simply to avoid these emissions instead of doing a whole round to get them compensated somewhere. Moreover, this revision will lead to an increase in CO2 emissions, which will of course be incorporated into the electricity price. For this purpose, the International Energy Agency has made a nice tool for calculating the cost of electricity on the basis of the CO2 price. This brings us seamlessly to the aspect of affordability of energy. Many parties, both the majority and the opposition, have taken the floor and expressed concern about the affordability of the system. There was a fear that the costs could increase. This had to be closely monitored and controlled. After all, the way in which this will happen is the big question. We heard a while ago the almost triumphant reports from the government that even organised a press conference about the fact that the costs for the whole system would be almost halved. However, we have to note that the CREG has put its finger on the wound and has indicated that some of the assumptions of Haulology are very unlikely. If I read the disclaimer put forward by the Minister himself in that study and which she pointed out, namely that neither the Minister nor the Government has any responsibility for determining the assumptions made by the consultant, then I do not know 100 percent or anyone else believes in the outcome of that study. I understand they were allowed to be explained on French-language television today. That does not change the fact that there are very big questions about this. The committee was very concerned about these costs. They were largely the reason for adopting a resolution in the summer of 2020 in which a broad majority called for the CRM system not only to be cheaper, but also to ensure that it did not end up in the electricity bill. We have discussed for a long time whether the costs should not rise, or whether they should decrease. Each party that is in the government today has also adopted that resolution in this area. Everyone has asked to ensure that by the end of 2020 the proposals on the implementation of compensation will be on the table. How will we ensure that the federal additional costs are reduced in the invoice? At that time, the Minister, albeit in a different capacity, specifically pointed out that Parliament should be able to debate the cost of these investments. It also stated that it was essential for Parliament to have these proposals at its disposal. This commitment to putting these proposals on the table is not being respected today. That deadline has been exceeded. The government has also indicated that these proposals will be worked on from September to November. This means that we will only be able to see the compensation at that stage and that the current draft law actually shifts the costs completely into the invoice. That is how it is foreseen at the moment. The costs of the CRM will be passed on to the final customer in full and per kilowatt hour via the Eliafature. That is, of course, not in line with the way it was formulated in the resolution. We must therefore note that there is a lack of progress here. I suspect that this has to do with the fact that the date of September-October-November is crazy enough to correspond to the time when the auction must be organised effectively. I will be accused of going through a process of intent, but it almost seems as if at least it should not be known how the compensation would happen before the auction becomes inevitable. This also means that no longer can be adjusted to the cost side of the mechanism. The resolution at the time stipulated that proposals for compensation should be put forward, but also that methods should be examined to reduce the cost of the CRM. If that is only done in September-October-November 2021, when the auction will be over, there is not much room left to make the system cheaper. We do have the biggest questions. I note that some of the commitments in the resolution are being worked on, but also that a number of others are not being dealt with. The proposal to work on degressivity has also not arrived. In my view, Mr Verduyckt's proposal to analyse the impact on the market is not on the table today, despite the fact that we all agreed on this, except for two groups which did not support it. I think that is absolutely a flaw. This brings me back to the way we looked at this dossier under the first CRM law. One of the elements at that time was not the overall, but one of them was the unclear financing of the whole. It was not clear whether the way of financing was digestible. Today, only a transfer to the electricity bill is registered in the law. The existing agreement to bring other matters to the table has not been implemented for the time being. So, in a sense, I am left with the same problems as in 2019. The funding, with what the government is presenting today, is at least as unclear as it was in 2019. Today, a broken promise comes up. The adoption of this text is therefore not a matter for our group. In my view, this text represents a number of steps backwards compared to what we agreed on in July 2020. That's the only way I can look at this case. My group will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very important piece of legislation that we are about to vote on tonight. It is crucial for the energy transition that we urgently need to begin in this country. It is urgent to ensure the security of supply of Belgium. I assure you, I will speak very briefly. But I would just like to recall four important points of our discussions which, I believe, lasted for more than 12 hours in the Energy Committee. First, why is it important to adopt this legal framework? Simply to ensure the security of energy supply in our country. It is our political responsibility to guarantee this security of supply. This CRM is, in a way, a form of life insurance, a form of assurance that light will not be extinguished in 2025. As has been pointed out on several occasions, during the debates in committee, it would be very dangerous to let the market go, to let the invisible hand of the market invest where it wants according to the profits of the sale of electricity, which is called scarcity pricing in English, without providing for a mechanism to support capacity. This is what we are going to do tonight as we are going to set the legal framework that will ensure a basic capacity to ensure the security of energy supply in our country. It is important to ensure, now, a certain demand management, the electricity storage solutions that are increasingly needed with the expanding renewable energy. The same is true for the latest generation pilotage plants. It is also important to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that in the end no one here is in the opinion of any party to do nothing for our security of supply. Secondly, there is the issue of urgency. It's important to remember that it's midnight minus one. Finally, this text should have been adopted twenty years ago. We have lost far too much time in recent years. It would be dangerous, in my view, to delay again. We are now in a race against the clock. This is a collective challenge that we must win collectively. I come to my third consideration. Is that really necessary? That's such a good question. Is that really relevant? Yes! Whether we extend Tihange 3 and Doel 4 or not, it's necessary anyway. This is known and no party represented in the House of Representatives advocates the extension of other nuclear reactors. No one here! Not one party! For technical and safety reasons, whatever happens with Tihange 3 and Doel 4, this CRM will be indispensable anyway. The fourth important point I would like to raise tonight is "why make such an energy transition?" Why is it important – Mr Wollants, you talked about it – to move on to more flexibility? Why today, in the 21st century, do we need much more flexibility to get out of a 20th century that was, by essence, carbonized and nuclearized? I would like to illustrate this need for flexibility with a simple example that comes from Elias' figures that were published this evening on renewable energy production in our country. We have just experienced a record, an absolute record in Belgium: 4 GW produced by wind energy, by wind. It's a record wind. It's a great record: 4 GW, it's the equivalent of what 4 nuclear reactors produce. The result is that wholesale electricity prices were close to zero and fell below zero. We've seen negative prices in the electricity market today and last night. We could think it's great. It's kind of like, today, you have an electric car and you're totally paid to consume electricity. But I think it is important to say frankly, here in the House, the absurdity in the current energy system in Belgium, with nuclear power plants which, by definition, are not very flexible. We can't modulate them. We can't do "on"/"off" with a nuclear reactor. It would be far too dangerous. We can't do it in Belgium. What is ridiculous is that today, renewable energy producers, some wind power producers have had to stop wind turbines, for example in the North Sea. It's important to say so. It is important to me as an environmentalist. I think it's the world upside down. In the world of tomorrow, in the 21st century, I believe that we must all agree that the highest priority must be given to the production of renewable energy, to the production of wind energy. How can we do this in practice? In fact, by giving the maximum chance to a much more flexible market, to much more flexibility in energy production. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the procrastination of the past must end today. Of course, this will be complicated. Of course, it's going to take some more time. We know that we will still have many debates in the Committee on Energy. We know that there will be the decision of the European Commission. We know that we need to make an energy shift. But I don't think we have time to wait anymore. We need to get out of this 20th century carbonized and nuclearised and invest resolutely in the energy of the future, in renewable energies and give the greatest chance to this deployment of renewable energies in our country. This is an ambitious goal. This is the objective that this Vivaldi government has set itself. That is the objective that Minister Van der Straeten is precisely in the process of achieving for the future. Very sincerely, I am grateful to him, because I realize the work that has been done in recent months, during hours of discussions with specialists and sometimes very technical discussions. Clearly, today it is this creativity, this mobilization, this seriousness for tomorrow, that we need. So we will be 100 per cent behind this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague Malik Ben Achour would have liked to speak on this matter, but to his great regret he cannot do so. He asked me to express the point of view of the Socialist Group. This allows me to go back into the debates on energy and nuclear which I had the great honour of presiding under the previous legislature, with some of the colleagues present and some others who are no longer with us. Well, here we are! We will be able to vote, at the end of this debate, in some time, perhaps at midnight minus one, or a little later, once and for all, this CRM bill and put in place this capacity compensation mechanism to ensure the security of supply of our country and also to ensure the exit of nuclear power in 2025, as provided for in the law. This project is all the more essential because 2025 is tomorrow – we all know it. The infrastructure to be implemented and developed to remedy this exit from nuclear power will not be done in a snap of fingers. This is a preparation for which we cannot afford to be late. Indeed, it would be unacceptable to plunge our security of supply into uncertainty. You must always be able to light up, warm up, avoid blackouts, it is in everyone's interest. This is a challenge for Parliament as a whole, and no one would dare to disagree with it. We must therefore be able to allow the government to move forward as quickly as possible on this very important issue. Madam Minister, you can count on the support of the Socialist Group. I hope that this bill will win as many votes as possible, why not unanimity. Finally, there is the question of household and small business bills. It has been put on the table in the debates – notably with a motion for a resolution – and this CRM project cannot be done at the expense of consumers. The bill cannot therefore be increased, but this has been widely explained and debated in committee. We fully support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law seeks to amend the 2019 CRM Act on several points. These changes are, of course, necessary in the logic of the preparation of the first auction and the roll-out of the mechanism and can even be described as urgent in that logic and phase. In order to complete the CRM design, seven Royal Decrees must also be formally adopted, and they must also be submitted to the Council of State, where the urgency procedure is not directly appropriate, given its importance. At the same time, the draft law introduces the CRM into the Electricity Act, with periodic auctions. Madam Minister, a common thread in your approach to the dossier, which you have, of course, inherited in part from your predecessor, is that the mechanism should be designed in such a way that costs remain as low as possible, however it is financed. That method of financing, Mr Wollants, has already said that it has yet to be established and is therefore not really clear today. You, as a Member of Parliament in June last year, together with Mr Wollants, among other things, have also had other points of concern: a kind of temporary and ad hoc alliance for the adoption of the well-known CRM resolution of 16 July. Mr Marghem, who was then Minister, was taken out of a good night's sleep and had to come from Tournai to take note that the parliamentary community had a fairly tight straitjacket on the CRM ready for her. By the way, Mr Marghem, the Pano reportage on the solar panels shows that you are a bit of a naughty girl and it really deserves to be kept in check, in a tight corset, a resolution. Colleagues, a number of aspects, some aspects of this straitjacket, we also liked, inter alia, the transparency obligations for the government in terms of volume and parameters, the control of costs and a number of measures to be taken by the government with regard to the method of financing and the date of 31 December 2020. That is why we abstained at the time, as a form of appreciation for the indeed meritorious and very necessary adjustment of the CRM. Colleagues, I'll make the bridge to our attitude right away today. Of course, that abstinence did not imply that we are in favour of the CRM in itself. That's what I emphasized during that summer night. C'est simple comme bonjour, we voted against the CRM Framework Act in April 2019, just like the N-VA and the PVDA. Even sp.a wasn't thrilled, Mrs. Depraetere. On 12 March 2019, a few weeks before the votes, the following could be read everywhere. I quote: 'According to opposition party sp.a it is possible to maintain the nuclear exit without new subsidised gas plants being added'. In any case, we believe that the necessity of the mechanism was created in itself by a number of political decisions and, of course, non-decisions of the past nearly 20 years. I am therefore stunned by the mantra that appears to be being held, both in committee and in opinion papers, by both Mr Cogolati and the Minister, and would not be a political dossier, but an expression of common sense, which should actually be shared by everyone, over majority and minority. Colleagues, why do we need a CRM today and why will the Minister have to decide in a few weeks' time, through her auction instruction, on the final fixing of the auction parameters, the demand curve and the required volume? Why is it a political decision, which in no way exceeds majority and minority? That is already apparent from the vote in committee. That too is actually simple comme bonjour. The Minister stressed that in its preferred scenario, Plan A, 6 gigawattuur of capacity will close in 2025, and that, in order to ensure security of supply and security policy it intends to implement in all scenarios, even in the case of a possible and realistic decision, according to the government, to keep two nuclear power stations, Plan B, which we will know in November whether it will become reality, a CRM is also necessary. For plan B, included in the coalition agreement, the operator is already in a fantastic comfortable seat. Whether consumers and businesses will be equally comfortable is another question. Yes, it is true, the need for a CRM is supported by decisions in neighbouring countries. Also east of us a number of options for reducing steering capacity were taken and implemented or they will be implemented. Moreover, uncertainty remains as to the exact degree of availability of the nuclear park south of Belgium. But almost all of these options are political decisions, right? The fact that neither the Verhofstadt governments, - Leterme, - Di Rupo and - Michael, have ever returned to the basis of the nuclear trip, is a political decision, is it not? The fact that there has been no supply policy in the last 15 years, and even no real research worthy of the name of the government for new nuclear power stations, is a political decision, is it not? One was willingly entwined with the current operator and that was it; remember the different pax electronics. Although we, as the responsible party, have, of course, supported a number of agreements with the quasi-monopolist nuclear operator in the Chamber for the sake of security of supply, that was never the ideal scenario for us. Colleagues of the N-VA, remember that in 2009 you launched the Flemish Energy Company at Flemish level with the original, initial intention to create a Flemish competitor of the operator I will not mention the name "Offer," which would be concerned with production and attracting production. That was the road map for us, but of course it was only for the gallery, because the Bourgeois government soon decided to turn it into a subsidiary of PMV with the task of purchasing and reselling energy to Flemish agencies and local authorities. That's why I find the persistent statements of the tandem De Wever-Wollants through numerous opinion papers and press releases a little bit of keeping up appearances. What has the N-VA done in the Michael administration to make what we are getting on our plate today redundant, the CRM, which you will be voting against later? The N-VA has never expressed itself explicitly, not even in its programme, which Mr Wollants said last year in response to the resolution itself, to a CRM an sich, so the vote against it will be somewhat reluctant, because it has been tried with firm amendments to make it into a CRM à la N-VA. It is therefore nonsense to say that there are no political decisions and therefore no ideological principles on the basis of the fact that a CRM has become necessary in the Belgian context. That brings me, Madam Secretary, excuse me, to your sales talk about the CRM with the example of the almost apocalyptic scenes and the lack of security of supply in the Texas hit by a cold wave. I wasn't the only one to get annoyed about it, even in the majority not everyone was thrilled about it. I can only endorse what Mr Marghem said in committee. I found it almost tragic during the committee's discussion that the ecologists defended the need for the CRM with the element climate disruption and therefore possible supply problems in extreme winters, listen carefully, while the PVDA-PTB is about to argue that the general climate warming and the increasing occurrence of extremely soft winters justify precisely that there is no need for a CRM. Yes, Mr Warmoes, the PVDA absolutely wants climate change to be taken into account in determining the reliability standard and the volume to be auctioned, in the sense of global warming. So Elia overestimates the supply problem. Would Anuna De Wever have looked at it in such a way that the climate is disturbed and doesn't warm up? On Monday, however, at the court of first instance, the meetings of Climate Court versus, among other things, the federal government about the lack of ambition in relation to the Paris agreements. I thought the Paris climate agreement was about global warming and its consequences. Would Anuna De Wever have looked at it in such a way that, according to the PVDA, climate warming doesn't mean we need CO2 power plants? Would Anuna De Wever and the whole climate movement be convinced that emissions from additional and/or reactivated gas plants will not contribute to CO2 emissions? Are they also convinced that the gas plants are needed because of the climate disruption there can still be Texas winters here? Would a man or woman in the street or one of the climate protesters place eggs in the basket of the European ETS system with great enthusiasm? Madam Minister, will you be able to explain to the public how sales, emissions trading are going and convince the public that a new gas plant in Belgium, which is more efficient and less CO2 emissions than older plants, will effectively replace a less efficient unit elsewhere in the EU? In this context, Mr Wollants has asked some very valid questions today and put valid arguments which show that compensation for additional emissions can be prevented. Nota bene, the population is feeling through the debacle around the solar panels. I hope you have seen that Pano broadcast seriously deceived in its green commitment. Flemish Interest is curious whether you will be able to determine the right thing in the next few weeks, as I describe it, through your auction instruction. Too large a volume drives up the cost price, too small a volume can lead to deficits. Indeed, Mrs Dierick, the volume will have to be assessed very correctly, not too high, to avoid oversubsidisation, but also not too low, so that the politically-created debt instrument, which I repeat, does not compromise security of supply. The nervousness is great. Last week, FEBEG stated that according to its calculations, only 2.2 to 2.5 gigawattuur will be auctioned to new power stations and that this would, in its view, compromise security of supply. Economics deceives wisdom, FEBEG says. Okay, maybe that nervousness is a good signal that indicates that a CRM light is expected. I hope so for you, together with consumers and businesses. What exceeds majority and minority today is the fact that we all share a great concern about the great order of that investment and therefore investment costs. Madam Secretary, we are curious whether you will succeed in preventing bidders from asking for more than their missing money in the coming weeks. That is the question of the derogation or derogation from the intermediate price limit. It has already been mentioned here, the conclusions of the CREG on the study of Haulology were clear. In essence, the CREG considered that the scenario, which the consultant considered to provide a reliable estimate of the costs of the CRM, did not take sufficient or even no account, inter alia, of bids above the missing money and the mechanism of the deviation from the IPC. Madam Minister, the CREG offers you various possibilities to reduce costs, including the setting of strict rules for deviations from the IPC or price limit, as well as to ensure that the investment thresholds, which give access to multi-annual contracts and price ceilings, limit the possibilities of strategic bidding behaviour. I know you're aware of that and you're asking for trust. That is at the heart of your answer, namely trust. You ask for confidence in handling the methodology, which will ensure that you succeed. You'll take care of that through KB. We also know that Mr Wollants has doubts about this. I have also given him the benefit of the doubt by supporting his amendment. Madam Minister, the challenge is immense. Recent figures from the VREG show that public service charges and surcharges have been raised once again. The support for the magical wind farms at sea is not surprising. The decline in network tariffs at Flemish level, which has been around for a few years, is reversed by the increase in funding of green electricity certificates at federal level. Families therefore pay the same amount for all network costs together as in 2020. That's a flashing light. You are therefore also in terms of the size of the CRM investment costs, as in terms of the method of financing, as in terms of perception of a very heavy task. This week you tweeted cheerfully about the signing, apparently on the initiative of you and Mr Gilkinet, of a call to the European Commission to introduce an end date for the sale of new cars with combustion engines, as this could, in the context of investment security, just eliminate the problems of battery life and price. I am very curious whether you will be able to put the family cars on the electric transition track in a socially affordable way. What does the general transition mean in terms of mass electrification for the cost of the distribution network? Just think of the debate on the strongly declining basis of support for the digital meter. Madam Minister, Mr De Vriendt, Mr Cogolati, be very careful what you are doing during this green grip on power. You still have time, but pay attention and remember the 2003 elections. Colleagues, Mrs Marghem's attitude on the CRM's file was somewhat sulky and muggy. I would just like to quote what Mr Borsus said about this: "It is strictly impossible to close the last two nuclear power plants if we are to meet our environmental and energy ambitions." If one hears that here, I think there is some doubt and hesitation at MR to approve this CRM. I've already talked about the pirouettes of the sp.a. All these pirouettes, later on also from MR, will lead to that, as long as we do not live in the green realm of God, with an almost exclusive production of renewable energy, we will end up under the guidance of the apostles De Croo and Van der Straeten in a kind of green-blue advent period prior to the arrival of the Lord, colleague Verherstraeten, and the green realm of God. In our parts, the kingdom of God, perhaps with the blessing of the high priest Frans Timmermans, will be preceded by a long, but temporary advent period, consisting of renewable energy, interconnection, etc. My party doesn't get involved in this advent scenario. At a time when the International Energy Agency says that at the end of last year we were back above the level of 2019 in terms of CO2 emissions, that China last year emitted almost 1% more CO2 than in 2019 and that, from September onwards, India and Brazil also released more emissions than a year before, I will not sell to the population that we will exchange the nuclear power plants for gas plants and ask the same people to pay out a few billion euros in the long term for this. I'll leave that to you. We will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking another important step in the journey - if I believe previous speakers - of the almost already legendary CRM, which we have been working on for months and months, and again over the last few hours. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, what is this about? That has already been said, but I like to repeat it. This is an insurance against the lack of electricity, since this mechanism is intended to question suppliers of electricity production capacity on the market. We know that a developed country like ours has to be constantly supplied with electricity, sometimes up to 12,000 MW in winter, for many hours, many days or many weeks - and not for a few hours when there is wind or sun for several days and then there is much less. We need a constant supply. And how do we get a constant supply? Through a variety of capacities, ranging from renewables to gas, storage, demand management, nuclear power, biomass and many other things, which together meet this need of our people. The government agreement that I have already mentioned to you in committee and which you all certainly know by heart - at least the majority - reminds us that it is crucial that, in our energy transition and in the context of our ambitious climate policy, we consider security of supply, sustainability and affordability of costs to ensure all these elements for our citizens and our businesses. In order to ensure future procurement, we support, says the government in its agreement, the further development of the MRC. Today, we are launching a legal framework that has undergone an evolution according to the various elements that have enamelled and enriched its course. This legal framework will soon be supplemented by a series of royal decrees designed to operationalize it. This framework will not be fully achieved until the European Commission has put its print on it. All this, although it gives the impetus and the lines of law for the creation of a CRM, remains theoretical and forward-looking as long as we do not dive into the reality of the choice of volume, of the launch of the market, of the receipt of tenders, of their analysis, of the acceptable balance of tenders, of the conclusion of contracts, of the management of possible appeals, of the actual implementation of existing, rejuvenated or new capacities with all the necessary administrative steps, of stages in permitting, of financial steps and of construction and maintenance, all in reality in an extremely short time. So the path is still very long and sown with trials. In essence, our best guide through all these uncertainties and difficulties is and must remain the cost to our businesses and citizens. I have said this on several occasions in committee. I repeat. I will say that again and again. It is by calibrating as precisely as possible the volumes we need that we will be able to regulate as strictly as possible the additional costs which will be generated by this mechanism for the citizen, because indeed there will be an extra cost, as every time a new support mechanism is launched and a new means of providing us with and guaranteeing our security of supply in Belgium. A show on the public channel last night showed us how much the citizen must be in the light of our reasoning. It has shown how a support system, in this case for onshore wind turbines in Wallonia, which was originally designed to support new technology that was not yet mature and to launch it, becomes, after 15 years, an unfair system that is too burdensome to pay for the services it provides, which are intermittent services and whose percentage in our electricity mix is insufficient to date. It is for this reason that we have, under the previous government, as one speaker pointed out, greatly diminished support for the offshore in the North Sea. Of course, this reduction of EUR 4 billion is a large amount in absolute terms, representing between EUR 6 and about 10 on the bill of our fellow citizens throughout the time of operation of these wind turbines, and that is not nothing. But it may still be insufficient in terms of everything we need to do, including in the regions, I can hear it well, in terms of technical progress in order to succeed in the energy transition. It is also a question that we must ask ourselves. It is for this reason that we cannot repeat enough that we must be very vigilant when launching the next offshore public procurement, which will also generate - even if it will result in rather harsh competition - an extra cost on the consumer's bill. Therefore, all these additions that will appear in it must be anticipated and reflected in their entirety. As representatives of our fellow citizens, we are here to discuss an essential issue and to make choices. However, they must be trained with the greatest humility, clarity and transparency. With such qualities, we will be able to better share these choices with the public, so that they make sense to her and we will show her that we are listening to her environmental and financial needs. Our citizens aspire to a quality environment, but at an affordable price. In other words, an impeccable transition will be a failed transition. That is our specification, our duty and our sole objective. My group will therefore support this text - that goes without saying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many of us look at the CRM legislative proposal with mixed feelings. We all want our security of supply not to be compromised. Shutdown plans and a blackout must be avoided at all costs. A blackout is actually an uncontrolled and brutal lockdown of the entire society and economy. No power means no internet, no working computers, no production in companies, chaos in hospitals, no train traffic and so on. The economic and social damage in such a scenario is unseen and can, according to the Federal Planning Bureau, amount to 126 million euros per hour. Costs and an embarrassment for the whole country that we absolutely must avoid. We need a capacity compensation system anyway, because we need more capacity. It does not matter whether the core exit is respected or not. There's got to be a CRM. Of course, we are also concerned about the feasibility and affordability of the CRM. From the outset, we knew that this procedure would be a very great challenge. The feasibility of introducing the CRM largely depends on the decisions of the European Commission. A very strict timing was established and the tasks of the different players were clearly defined. Many responsibilities were also clearly laid down and set up. Yeah, a lot of steps have been taken. The ambition was very high, but there are still many steps to be taken. Above all, there must be no missteps. That is why the urgency of this draft law was called for. There is absolutely no time to lose. If we want decent bids, the project promoters must obviously have sufficient time to submit a sound and quality project. The more high-quality projects can be submitted, the better the competition between them, and that is ultimately better for the cost. A second concern that we all share is the feasibility and affordability of this mechanism. A lot of calculations have already been made for the cost. This will also depend to a large extent on the volume that will eventually be auctioned. Here too, great caution is needed. I have already been quoted here by colleagues. Too large a volume auction would increase the cost and too small a volume would once again compromise our security of supply. There will certainly have to be a very balanced choice here in determining the volume. This will continue to be determined by the CSOs, but here too Parliament wants to be able to keep its finger on the wrist and keep its finger on the wrist. Affordability is a very important focus and a concern, but we still have some hold-ups. In order to control the costs and therefore the impact on the energy bill, we, as a Parliament, took over the dossier last summer and produced a resolution in committee with a number of choices to reduce these costs. The recent study also shows that the cost would be lower than previously estimated. That is a positive signal, but that does not mean that we should sit back and do nothing more. We still have to work hard on affordability. The resolution therefore expressed a clear commitment that the federal share of the energy bill should either decrease or not increase. That was a very long discussion, but that is a very clear commitment. Madam Secretary, that is a heavy commitment, and that will certainly not be a walk in the park. We will have to work hard on this, but we are pleased that you have taken on board this commitment and that you will also make a promise that you will come forward with proposals on this by September. Of course, it would have been even better if we had made that clear now, but at the same time you also gave your word that you are working hard on an energy standard. That's something CD&V has been advocating for years. We shall certainly be following this very closely. It is essential for us that the energy standard for companies and families is introduced and that the cost of the CRM is not passed on to the energy bill. The CRM is an important element in our energy policy. The energy players follow this very closely. The CRM is very far-reaching, and this also causes concern for the energy players. It is also important for them to be clear quickly, so that they know where they stand. In addition to the energy players, our citizens follow this closely. There's got to be a new capacity. New permits are already being applied for here and there. It therefore seems very important to me that good information is also provided to our citizens and that methods are sought to create more support for the new capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the CRM very often in the Committee on Energy. We have already held a lot of hearings and many studies have already been presented. In fact, together we have produced an important resolution which has laid down the foundations and framework for the CRM. We have shown that, as Members of this House, we dare to stick our necks out and accept our responsibilities. The draft law now before us is actually a result of our resolution. Madam Secretary, now it is up to you to work this out and follow up. However, we are counting on us as MEPs to be involved in the further steps of the CRM at regular intervals, and that you are transparent to Parliament. Madam Minister, we are certainly allies to ensure our security of supply, but of course with a critical look at the cost price. Our group will support this bill with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have been opposed from the outset to the introduction of the CRM, the subsidy mechanism for large energy producers. So we are also opposed to this bill. We still find it incomprehensible that a green minister of fossil gas plants, which we do not even need, wants to subsidise with hundreds of millions of euros. You have already heard that we are not the only ones in this House who oppose the CRM, but it is clear that we have other reasons. The right-wing nationalist block is against it because it is against the nuclear exit. This has been demonstrated by the interventions today. N-VA and Flemish Interest are therefore opposed to the core step and are also supported by the government, especially the MR, although Mrs Marghem today was a bit more cautious in her wording than certain members of her party in the press. That position is, of course, awesome because nuclear energy has been blocking a vigorous energy and climate policy in this country for years. Whatever the supporters of nuclear energy say, it is not a solution to the climate and is incredibly expensive. Delaying the core step will not reduce the energy bill, investing massively in renewable energy and taking all hidden taxes out of the energy bill. Nuclear energy also prevents the transition to an energy system with 100 % renewable energy. Maintaining our obsolete nuclear power plants only prevents additional and necessary investments in renewable energy and thus perpetuates the status quo. We therefore urge the government to carry out the full core step. At the same time, we are strongly opposed to the construction of new gas plants with massive subsidies. The calculations of the energy watchdog CREG clearly show that despite the core exit, our energy supply remains guaranteed. We can achieve the core exit perfectly without additional gas plants. Network operator Elia overestimates our energy needs systematically and significantly, because one refuses to take into account the latest climatic data that today look very different under climate change, with much softer winters than in the 1980s. Mr Ravyts, allow me to repeat what you just said, because I do not think you have understood this correctly. Is there global warming? Yeah, there's no doubt about that. Measurements of the average temperature on Earth show global warming. That doesn't mean that global warming is manifesting or happening in the same way everywhere. According to the models, the temperature drops even in some areas. After all, climate is a complex fact. Changes in ocean and air flows do not reflect global warming in the same way everywhere. Does this mean that we will no longer have severe winters? No, but there will be less severe winters. Everything is a matter of opportunity and risk and a matter of statistics. The CRM itself also takes this into account, since the volume to be auctioned is based on a volume or looses load, a VOLL, of three hours. This is also an opportunity issue: three hours a year there is a risk that production will not be able to meet demand. That risk is considered acceptable. Does this mean that the electricity supply in our country will have an overall outage of three hours a year? No, not at all, it's just a risk. One of the numerous hearings cited the example of a meteorite. There is a chance that a meteorite might fall on your house, Mr Ravyts, but that is why you will not build a bunker in your garden of two metres of reinforced concrete, because the cost of that bunker is far too high compared to the need to protect you from this risk. So, the chance of severe winters is decreasing, but just in the harsh winters the demand for electricity is highest. Since the opportunity is decreasing, this has an impact on the capacity needed for our security of supply. The less chance of severe winters, the less we have to assess that chance to meet them. Okay, let's get this over with. Mrs Marghem has also rightly made the comparison with insurance. So Elijah systematically overestimates our energy needs because it doesn't take into account the trend of less severe winters. Elia does that, of course, under pressure from the energy lobby, which preys on billions of subsidies. Madam Minister, you have repeated on several occasions that you want to take into account climate change in the future, it would still be a problem for a green minister, but you refuse to do so in the first crucial round of subsidies, which will take place in October this year, and which will determine how many new gas plants will be built. The problem is, of course, that in March you will determine the volume to be auctioned and that in June Elijah will launch a new survey, in which, as you said in committee, it will take into account as much as possible the trend towards climate warming and less severe winters. However, that will be too late because the volume to be auctioned will be fixed at that time. In this sense, we are, of course, very little that you will take into account climate change in the future, because the first auction is, of course, decisive and makes us stick to it for a long time. That both the N-VA and you always come up with scare images of the light that goes out today, Mrs Dierick did that today, each his turn is very cynical. Hospitals and rural areas would run out of electricity and trains would stop. Even today movies of the N-VA are still circulating on the social media that want us to believe that the light will go out. My colleague from the N-VA did not repeat it today, but those videos still exist. However, that is total nonsense. You too, Madam Minister, are no further than not taking any risks, and everyone knows that the needs are deliberately overestimated. The worst thing is that the weather will be the working people, the taxpayers who will pay for the profits of ENGIE Electrabel and other major energy multinationals. Madam Secretary, the Haulology study you ordered would cover at least EUR 3.6 billion in ten years' time. That too appears to be a serious understatement. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the CREG, producers' income is systematically underestimated and the need for subsidies is greatly overestimated. The citizens are therefore responsible for the costs, while the profits go to the multinationals. In its opinion, the CREG was also very clear about this: "Observers will abuse the CRM mechanism to make usury profits." That is the fundamental problem of a market mechanism, the aim is always to make as much profit as possible, not to achieve social objectives, in this case ensuring security of supply and accelerating energy transition. So the debate is being falsified: it is not whether to postpone the core exit or to subsidise new gas plants. There is a third alternative: massive public investment in the energy transition itself. This subsidy mechanism threatens our climate objectives because new fossil gas plants will make us dependent on fossil fuels for decades to come. The CRM does not allow the evolution towards a CO2-neutral energy system. The market principle of technology neutrality means that we cannot favour sustainable technologies, such as renewable energy or demand management, and therefore we must not discriminate against fossil fuels. That too is a fundamental problem of this market mechanism. Colleagues, I suspect that you have all received an e-mail from the civil campaign Countergas/Dé-gaze, which calls for 'not to invest in fossil energy, but to work on an energy system that reduces energy demand and sustains the energy we need'. All I can do is join them with all my heart. These citizens are asking us to step out of the false dilemma of nuclear energy versus gas and invest in an alternative. Instead of subsidising fossil fuels with taxpayers' money, we use that money better for public investment in the energy transition to accelerate it and reduce energy bills at the same time. We have therefore long been calling for this money to be released to invest in a public climate bank. With this bank, the government can invest in energy savings, energy storage and renewable energy and thus accelerate the much-needed energy transition. Thus the fruits of the energy transition also flow back to society. In conclusion, as you said, Mr Cogolati, we must invest in tomorrow's energies. But unfortunately, for us, CRM is not taking us in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the proverbial last kilometers have been deployed before the CRM train leads towards the instruction of the first auctions. That happens at his Belgian. When we talk about tracks, this happens with the necessary delay. Now it's happening a little hasty. With the tracks, we are also always concerned whether it will not cost us excessive public subsidies. However, the adjustment is necessary in order to meet a number of comments made by the European Commission. It is also in line with the resolution we have adopted here in Parliament. It concerns a funding basis, the use of the pay-as-bid method and the admission of the amount of unproven capacity. These last two elements are very important, because they will help to determine the cost. Let's be honest. The models and their design are the subject of discussion. I have already informed the Minister in committee that I was somewhat concerned that she and her cabinet gave the impression that they were listening to Elijah more than the CREG. I also noted that the CREG is an independent government institution and Elijah is a beautiful listed company, which is now in the Bel-20, but which has fixed margins on its business model. You know that a stock exchange listing is also based on the degree of risk. It is human and understandable that Elijah will always be somewhat more cautious and conservative in assessing the risks. Madam Minister, I hope you will be vigilant and have the right critical approach to what you have presented. After all, the next generations will have to pay the bill, which is a concern that I hear here on all the banks. The account will have to be financed. That will not happen until the next legislature. Does this happen via taxes, through the invoice or through a debit? They're all fine words, but we have to be careful. Belgium and Flanders have a bond with solar panels. Other regions also have good experiences with it or, rather, have bad experiences with shifting the invoice. It has rightly been said here that it is actually about insurance against a blackout. As is the case with all insurance, one can take out the most expensive insurance or take out double insurance, but one can also think about how to better manage one's risk. This is not about everything going to collapse, but about what is going to be done at peak times. Madam Minister, I would like to point out to you that today there are technology, but also business models, to eliminate part of the consumption when such a peak is coming. It's called demand and supply aggregation. There are a number of companies, including Belgian ones, which have acquired a position in it and where they are sometimes even paid to use energy. There are companies that receive a fee in those systems of demand and supply aggregation to temporarily stop their energy consumption. This is possible when it comes to pumps in water basins or cooling systems. They jump at a certain point in time and one can program or even control it without being dramatic. Consumers can also decide at some point not to turn on all the equipment. Madam Minister, I know you mean well, but like everyone else, I am concerned that this symbol file of the core exit would give the impression that this is more important than controlling CO2 emissions. Whether with certificates or with other systems, it is important that we manage this energy in a meaningful way. Our group is not dogmatic, not even in the nuclear issue. It is clear that the present nuclear power stations are end of life, but technology will bring us new things and we must also bear in mind that. I conclude my speech. Our group will approve this amendment. Like all colleagues, we will monitor this very closely and, if necessary, intervene in order to ensure that the best decision is taken, that the risk is controlled and that the cost of insurance becomes as low as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after 2003 2021 may be another crucial year in our country's energy policy. We will adopt this bill as one of the building blocks to ensure that the CRM will enter into force by the end of this year and ensure greater energy security in this country. It could be said that today is a very festive moment, but that is not the case for me, despite the important step we are taking. I'm declaring myself. When I talk about 2003, I am, of course, talking about the key step that was adopted in that year. That is perhaps one of the longest decisions taken in this country. Since 2003, 20 years later, we already know that we need an alternative production capacity to cope with the closure of those plants. The result today is that we will adopt a law here that will ensure that the government will have to go deep into its pocket to ensure that we have energy security in the future, after the closure of those power stations. For me, that proves two things. Firstly, it proves that the past governments have failed to turn the long-term vision into policy actions. An investment climate was not sufficiently created in which producers felt comfortable enough to invest in new energy production. However, there was no shortage of new technologies. The reason is well known: the inexhaustible reopening of the endless discussions on nuclear energy has created uncertainty. Mr Wollants began his speech by asking whether we still had to keep the 2 gigawatt nuclear power open or not. That is not the essential question, that was not what the market needed. What the market needed was clarity and certainty. We have not succeeded in this. A second conclusion I draw today is that our market has not worked either. 2003 was not only the year of the key trip, ladies and gentlemen, but also the year in which the energy market in our country was released. The Liberal colleagues then shouted: now you will see! A free energy market, a lot of competition, prices would fall. Well, I don't know if we dare to draw that conclusion today. We must say that there is a good deal of supply today in the field of energy suppliers. Madam Secretary of State has a lot of work to do, but we seem to be able to compete in the market. However, when it comes to the production market, there is only one conclusion to be drawn, and that is that the market is not sufficiently freed up today. The company has been referred to a number of times today, but no one has mentioned the name. One company has a heavy impact on the production market. As a result, not only the rates for our residents are quite expensive, but our energy-intensive companies also pay the highest invoices in Europe. One should not be an economist to realize that this has an impact. Moreover, there was little or no investment in new production capacity from the market. After all, it was assumed that politics would turn. What's the effect today? We must come up with a solution, an insurance that is going to cost us quite a lot of money, because we do not want to put society into uncertainty, we do not want to take a gamble. That is why CRM is needed. After all, what is the alternative? I listened to Mr Ravyts' history lesson. He's spoken for a long time. I have heard a lot of questions, and I have heard a lot of difficulties. It is not an easy dossier, but I have heard no solutions and no proposals. Our colleague from the PVDA does offer an alternative. He called for the renationalisation of this country's energy production market. We must remain serious. It's 2021. It should be there in four years. If we have to do all that in four years, that is an impossible task. Moreover, I believe that Europe will put us at the door immediately when we begin to do so. In short, that is unrealistic. We do need an alternative that will ensure that we do not plunge our society into uncertainty. Hence the CRM. Are we signing a blank cheque today? Of course we do not. Madam Secretary, now I'm addressing you. For the failure of politics and the market in recent years, I do not think you are guilty at all. You must now bring this complex dossier to a successful conclusion in the short term. You do that with a lot of fire, and I appreciate that very much, but of course that does not relieve you of the responsibility of keeping the finger on us. You must have been very pleased when you saw Haulology's study. This study indicated that the cost of CRM is significantly lower than initial estimates. You were also so honest to say that that is a study and therefore only an estimate. That's right. I also added two reservations to that study. The company assumes that investors will bid their missing money in a well-functioning market, regardless of strategic considerations. After nearly twenty years of free market in this country, apart from strategic considerations, I do not see that as the case may be. The system of derogations, i.e. the fact that investors are allowed to ask for even more than the limits that we have agreed here together in a resolution, is today Pandora's real box. That's what we're really afraid of because we don't know exactly what that extra cost will be. You have heard from various statements that several colleagues share this concern. For the sake of clarity, I have great confidence in the CREG. They have shown in the CRM file that they do not fold so quickly, so I am really convinced that those who ask for additional costs from those suppliers will look seriously at them. The time is short, of course, and the files are extremely complex. I therefore expect you to give them all the support you can to punish these abuses. It would be good if you included that concern in the implementing decisions that you will have to take as Minister. Today we are laying a foundation for the CRM, but it is mainly up to you to give impact in those implementing decisions that will have an interest in the final invoice. For this reason, on behalf of the sp.a Group, I will give you three further points of interest. For the sp.a, the CRM is primarily a transition to a production market where renewable energy is central. That's the ultimate goal we have to go to, and this is the intermediate step we're taking. However, we must avoid committing ourselves too long to possible fossil production. We will undoubtedly need the flexibility of these gas plants in order to reach the end. We can understand that. For us, however, long-term contracts of 15 years are only justifiable in the initial period of the system. Fifteen years is an eternity in the energy sector. We must, of course, be very careful with long-term contracts. Hopefully you will also ensure a proper balance in the law. We will soon pay companies to provide capacity. It doesn't really warm me up, but it does. That does not mean, however, that there are no limits. The payback system, which will enter into force when prices are very high, is a fundamental element of CRM design for us. I assume that you agree with me that it cannot be the intention that, if these prices are very high, the electricity producers can simply collect profits without paying back some of those excess profits to the company. We therefore call for a fair limit in that system, so that we can still explain it to the people on the street. Finally, Madam Minister, all implementing decisions are thoroughly scanned for their impact on market forces. It is absolutely essential that we open up the production market more in our country. I think this was also a bit of a common thread in my speech. That market is one of the reasons why we are where we are today. We are prepared to contribute to the cost of the CRM, provided that it does not give us an even stronger concentration of the market. That would be a particularly unpleasant finding. Madam Minister, the CRM is a complex mechanism for many people, but it is actually very simple. On the one hand, it is an assurance that energy producers will invest back in production and that they know that their investments will not cause major problems. On the other hand, it is an insurance for our society, which protects us from energy scarcity, with all the consequences. This is not only about high prices, but also about greater insecurity, about large costs for companies, IT problems and much more. That's good. We will therefore support you today, because we believe that our society absolutely needs that insurance. It is up to us and you to limit the cost of this insurance, because the citizens of this country are entitled not only to electricity supply but also to low energy bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u30	Mr Verduyckt, I must make things right. Firstly, I did not speak of nationalisation as an alternative, I was talking about a public investment company. This already exists with us, namely the Federal Investment and Participation Society and its counterparts in the regions. You said that this is not possible in Europe, but it already exists in Germany. The Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau bank has a capital of EUR 4 billion, with which it finances social and environmental projects. Since 2001, it has isolated more than two million houses, creating jobs for 200,000 people a year. So something like this is possible in Europe. By the way, there is also a public energy company in Copenhagen, and such a thing also exists in many German cities. You said we only have four more years. It is a fact that 2025 is not far away, but I would like to point out, although this is less a responsibility of the current government, that the core exit was already approved in 2003. By the way, it was confirmed in 2015. The fact that the previous governments have not done much to prepare us for the core step is a fact. It is indeed possible to invest public money in the energy transition. The capital of the quoted bank amounts to EUR 4 billion, which happens to be about the amount that we are now giving to the large energy groups. It will be at least 3.6 billion for the multinationals. Here in Belgium there is a constant reference to the market, the government simply does not want to take an initiative or at least far too little. One prefers to rely on the market, which of course does not work. If the market were to work perfectly, the CRM would not be necessary. They therefore rely on the market, see that it does not work and try to mess with it. Eventually, this still does not work and it is the taxpayer who has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u31	Mr Verduyckt, I think you're a joker. You blame us for not offering solutions or making any alternative. Should we, however, come up with a solution to a political context that we ourselves have not created or wish for? Your proposal is absurd, isn't it? You created that context, as your party was part of the Verhofstadt Government in 2003, which approved the core exit. You referred to it and made it inseparable between today's and 2003's decisions. But now you are blaming us for not coming up with a solution but an analysis. Of course I come up with an analysis, I'm in the bleachers. You need to solve your case. It is up to you to explain to the people what that will cost, not me. You chose the scenario, not us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u32	Mr Ravyts, it may be nice to sit in the gallery, that is absolutely not forbidden, but that is not how I stand in politics. We are in politics to come up with solutions. We were not fond of CRM at first either, but at some point a solution has to be found. We cannot just stand by while our society may be faced with uncertainty. Soon there will be 6 gigawatts of nuclear power gone and even with 2 gigawatts we won't make it. So there must be a solution. It is your right to sit in the gallery, but that is not how we stand in politics. We want solutions; we are now trying to achieve this by means of the legislation before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, the question is indeed whether we need to put in place a mechanism to avoid an electric blackout in our country. The answer is, of course, yes: a mechanism must be put in place to pay for capacity. There is little doubt in this regard. The second question is whether to put your CRM in place. On that question, on behalf of the cdH group, I answer no. We do not believe that, first of all, for a very simple reason which Mr Verduyckt has just recalled and which is also one of the fears which I hear on the side of the MR and the Open Vld. This is the starting point of your CRM, which has nothing to do with security of supply and which, for us, is even the opposite of this essential objective, it is the closure, at all costs, of all nuclear power plants, including those of Doel 4 and Tihange 3. This is your obsession, Mrs. Van der Straeten. Ecolo-Groen remains traumatized by the fact that 18 years after Olivier Deleuze's law of exit from nuclear power plants, we are still discussing the possibility of closing the last two nuclear power plants. You do not want this appointment clause set for November of this year, and you have managed to get ENGIE to draw a line on nuclear power. The company formalized its decision a few days ago. What you want, Madam Minister, is to be able to say that you have finished the work, as Mr Verduyckt has just pointed out, twenty years after it was started by Olivier Deleuze. It's a form of ideological trophy. I imagine that each of the parties of the Vivaldi coalition has this trophy, and it is not I who say it, but your colleague from Groen, Freya Piryns, who declared it again last December, and who said that if you did not get out of nuclear power, you would be "killed". I suppose that was a political image. Indeed, Ms. Piryns said out loud what is whispering down in the ecologist ranks. Because of this ideological starting point, because of this mantra, it will be necessary to build a giga-CRM to compensate for the brutal shutdown in 2025 of six gigawatts out of twelve – you have quoted this figure. It will therefore be necessary to rely heavily on gas, and certainly on TGV power stations. I must tell you that I would never have expected an environmental minister, in the midst of a climate emergency, to put in place a mechanism that will be, de facto, oversized, for ideological reasons rather than for security of supply reasons, which are part of our concerns. I have to remind you here a few numbers. In a 2018 report, the IPCC estimated that nuclear power plants emit 12 grams of carbon per kilowatt-hour compared to 490 grams for gas-fired power plants. The Federal Bureau of the Plan stated that the extension of Doel 4 and Tihange 3 would avoid the emission of 4.4 million tonnes of carbon in 2030 in Belgium. Their hasty closure in 2025 is an ecological aberration for us. I have the impression that you're a bit of a late war on this nuclear issue. I take up a few examples that some have already mentioned. Even the German environmentalists who are purists in anti-nuclear combat – they were the first at European level – opened the debate. Mrs Wendland, Mr Moormann, two figures you probably know about German ecology, once great anti-nuclear activists, have changed their minds in the face of the climate emergency. In Germany, their view in this respect is a real bomb, but in the Netherlands, there is also a climate salvation in the construction of new nuclear power plants. The Netherlands could build between three and ten new power plants in the coming years. France has just extended thirty-two of its nuclear reactors to a life of more than fifty years. Japan also believes that it will not be able to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050 without nuclear power. As for Great Britain, it is thinking about that. Yes, Mr. Cogolati, the world is changing. The world is moving. Technologies are changing. It is indeed time that in Belgium too, your government can take account of this climate emergency, this indispensable reduction in carbon emissions. We have the impression that through the way you drew this CRM, we will not succeed. In fact, it is two prominent Walloon leaders who, both in the PS and in the MR, are saying loudly what some members of this assembly doubtless think. I would like to quote Mr Borsus: "It is strictly impossible to close our last two nuclear power plants in 2025 if we are to guarantee our ambitions in terms of energy transition, energy accessible to citizens and businesses, and stability of supply without dependent on energy imports." That's what Mr. Borsus says. That is certainly what Mr Leysen, Mrs Marghem, thinks. What does Mr. Collignon, a prominent member of the Walloon government, say? "I share this view of pragmatism and common sense." I think that we can give further thought to the development of recent technologies in the nuclear field. The Netherlands is developing so-called small modular reactors, which are a very interesting technological development. We agree: the current nuclear power is not free of reproach and is not the panacea for tomorrow's energy. But it can evolve technologically and help ensure that we can better fight climate change. Minister, this bill also raises many questions and leaves too much uncertainty about the real cost of your capacity compensation mechanism. We still do not know what the cost per household, for businesses, will be. It is essential that your government provide assurances on the financial impact of CRM on the energy bill. As a reminder, the Vivaldi agreement provides that in order to neutralize the additional cost of CRM to consumers, the federal share of the invoice will be reduced. But the CRM price will still have to be paid at some point. Will it be tax, will it be on the bill, will it be by the citizens, will it be by the companies? What about this? Nothing is stated in the Act, the Statement of Reasons or the Comments. Minister, you have repeatedly indicated your willingness not to impact the citizens' bills. We are not reassured in this regard, because there will obviously be an extra cost, either through taxation or on the invoice. In this respect, the CREG recalled, it is feared that the cost of the capacity compensation mechanism will far exceed EUR 238 to 253 million per year. If the cost derails, again, who will pay the bill? In the end, it is consumers and businesses who are at risk of paying the high price. Whatever you say, the impact on energy costs will not be negligible. Finally, Madam Minister, I would have liked to hear from you on energy efficiency. The best energy is the energy you don't consume. I would have liked to hear your creative leads in this debate on CRM. I am surprised to see nothing about the need to develop a generalised differentiated tariff, to speed up the connection to smart meters and, in the long run, to link the impact of CRM on the energy bill according to consumption habits. For ideally, tomorrow, we must be able to have a real signal taken by warning consumers that when they consume at the wrong time and this involves the activation of fossil power plants, it will have an impact on the bill. Your bill offers us certainties, unfortunately, Madam Minister: increase in carbon emissions in Belgium, increase in costs. And uncertainties: the opinion of the European Commission, the volume, the cost, the offers sufficient to meet the demand. Anyway, we feel like we're being sold a cat in a bag. I have heard several of my colleagues from the majority. I heard Mrs Dierick talking about mixed feelings; Mr Verduyckt talking about Pandora's box; Mrs Marghem calling for transparency; Mr Leysen warning against nuclear dogmatism. For all these reasons, we will not vote on your MRC bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u34	Mr Dallemagne, I have the impression that you are a little bit of a debate wrong. I would just like to remind you that even the nuclear operator in Belgium, ENGIE Electrabel, today closes five of the seven reactors. So the debate we are discussing tonight is anything but ideological. Anyway, we'll need this CRM, whether we extend Tihange 3 and Doel 4 or not. Then you say the world changes. She's still the best! Today we are ten years to the day after the Fukushima accident. And indeed, since Fukushima, Mr. Dallemagne, the world has changed. What did we see? The nuclear's collapsed. On the other hand, renewable energy today represents three times as much as nuclear energy in terms of global capacity. This is the future we want to invest in!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u35	Mr. Cogolati, you're not listening well. I didn't plead against a CRM. I said that your CRM has as its primary objective the reduction of carbon emissions. And it was not I who recalled it, it was Mr Verduyckt who put me on the pole, who made the link between Mr Deleuze's 2003 law and Mrs Van der Straeten's current law. It is he who made this connection, and it is indeed the starting point of your reasoning and that of the government. That's what I'm challenging. Of course, you will have us by your side on renewable energies. We made an effort when we were in power in Wallonia or Brussels on these issues. Of course, it's a part of the future, but by brutally closing all of Belgium's nuclear capabilities, you automatically open production with steam-gas turbines, with an increase in carbon, and you do the opposite of what you claim to do. You're not fighting the climate emergency, you're increasing carbon emissions. That's what I'm denouncing in your CRM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, replacing this famous capacity compensation mechanism provided for by the Act of April 23, 1999 was a necessity in response to your obligation to shut down the last nuclear power plants. In fact, it is through this new capacity compensation mechanism that your government intends to ensure that sufficient energy is produced by the time that nuclear power is released in 2025. Let's be clear, this release from nuclear power in 2025 has been defended for a very long time by my party. This is a debate that I have always known and grown up with. But this exit from nuclear power can only be achieved by ensuring the security of energy supply – which is the raison d'être of this CRM – and compliance with European rules on energy supply. In this regard, the bill continues to raise questions. Minister, your ambition is to move forward with a clear and effective capacity compensation mechanism. Of course, we can only support you for this purpose. The problem is that an investigation for breach of state aid rules was opened by the European Commission on 21 September 2020 against the new Belgian capacity compensation mechanism. This investigation could put him in the closet! In addition, such a mechanism is based on an auction that is intended to ensure security of supply under section 4, paragraph 3, of this bill. However, even if the European Commission would give its green light for the new CRM, you would still have to set up the one-off auction procedure on time, i.e. before 2025. Even though you would be able to pass in time the royal decrees issuing a more detailed budget, the bill will not, however, ensure the effectiveness of the law and therefore of the capacity compensation mechanism, especially in view of the budget to be devoted to a mechanism that could then exceed your initial budget by 120 million euros. In other words, in the situation where such a mechanism would be regarded as contrary to the rules of European law, could a plan B be launched with a view to the disengagement of undertakings in nuclear energy in Belgium? Of course, such a possibility is legally enshrined, but will the company ENGIE Electrabel then want to turn on two of its reactors, knowing that all companies legitimately hope to respect the exit of nuclear power? Despite lengthy and intense debates in committee, but also here in plenary, these issues are still pending, or I really expect clarification from you on the fundamental issue of the cost to households. I have the impression that today we are more in a poker game with the European Commission. That is why, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group will abstain from this bill. We will also pay close attention to the European Commission's opinion on the subject and to the implementation of the CRM budget by your upcoming royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I answer, I would first like to say something completely different. We can differ among ourselves, and certainly in this House, and we can differ in depth. That is why we have this House. However, I believe that we must remain respectful at all times. It is about the way in which my predecessor, Mrs Marghem, was discussed here and the metaphor that was used. I don't need to speak for her, but I want to distance myself from that. I don't think that's appropriate. Words matter, even in this House, even if we have freedom or speech. We must remain respectful of each other at all times. Colleagues, I will come to what brings us here at this hour. It is certainly less nightly than in the previous discussion in this hemisphere on the CRM. We have been meeting in committee for a long time, not only since the new government arrived, but also under the previous government. Of course we do not shy away from the technical terms: LOLE, VOLL, T-4, T-1, missing money; some have passed here today. It might give the impression that we are gathered here tonight with the various groups to talk about something very technical. However, it is not technical. It's not technical at all, it's a reality. This evening we are discussing the security of supply of our country. It is about establishing that thermal capacity will in any case close down, in particular nuclear reactors. Five out of seven will have to close anyway. No one, no political party represented here but also the operator and the industry, is asking for an extension. That is to say, and we know this for a long time, we know that this closure has been coming since several legislative hours ago. This also means that this closure must be prepared and implemented in an orderly manner, not only in technical terms but also in human terms. We must ensure that we have in our country a system of replacement capacity that continues to provide our country, our economy, our citizens with energy. After all, energy is the lifeblood of our economy. We cannot take risks with that. That is why today we have a draft law on the CRM before us, but of course it also applies to a much wider European framework and debate, because today we are not the only country that has a CRM. Some of my colleagues talked about my CRM. No, several European Member States, including our neighbouring countries, have a system in place today. After all, not only Belgium, but all the European Member States are today facing the great energy transition that is taking place. One just needs to look outside, read the news or listen to announcements from energy producers to know that the energy transition is a fact. Today was a day with exceptional wind. Another record has been lost, partly thanks to the efforts of the previous government to make the most of it. As a result, today we were faced with a large nuclear capacity of 6 gigawatts, but also a capacity of 4 gigawatts of wind energy and a part of other steerable capacity. At the same time, we have seen that our market coupling was not available: ALEGrO, the connector referred to, was in maintenance, which is a shame. It is a great shame that the green electricity generated today cannot be on the grid. This illustrates the challenge we face: our electricity supply will increasingly be green, decentralised, renewable and variable. This means that we face a huge challenge with the massive integration of renewable energy and that we must build our energy system on it. We need flexibility and storage, so that we can guarantee our security of supply. That is why we are gathered here tonight. It is not really about what happens now or not with a few of our units, it is about building a robust system that guarantees that both our citizens and our companies have the electricity they need every day, every hour, every millisecond. That is security of supply, and it is true that it is cost-effective, but doing nothing, sitting back and saying that we will see what is coming is a much higher cost. There are companies in our country that need every millisecond of electricity. There are also companies that need electricity every 20 minutes. There are also mommies and daddies who pick up their kids at 6:00 when the IBO or the shelter closes. Those kids need food and homework. So they need that energy, too. Whether one votes for or against or abstains, whatever the intervention, no one has disputed it here. That is a shared concern of this Parliament and the government. Several challenges were shared here which each of you has pointed out separately and which confirm for me that doing nothing is not an option. If we don't do something, those challenges can't be tackled. I would like to repeat and support what many of you have said: we must be vigilant about affordability. Affordability has been a problem for a long time. One in five people can't pay his electricity or gas bill today. Many companies say that the prices they pay are not in line with the prices paid abroad. That is why this government is also working on the energy standard and the affordability of the federal share of the invoice. This government has stipulated in the government agreement that the new policy cannot simply be thrown on the tax or energy bill. We're picking up that glove and working on it. As has already been said here, we will come forward with proposals in September and October. Another challenge is to manage risks. I liked the expression of the colleague. He was talking about flexibility and peak. He's right. There is certainly a risk that we can manage and for which there are solutions today. That is also included in the CRM. What makes the Belgian system unique is that we are the only country in Europe that opts for a system where managing demand, i.e. innovative solutions and not massive support of large capacity, has been reserved for the C-1. I was not there, but it was a parliamentary majority that made that specific choice. Thirdly, on the transition, I would point out that the whole of Europe has opted for climate neutrality by 2050. This objective is endorsed by Parliament and by the current government. As has already been mentioned by many Members, the CRM system should enable us to shape this transition, just by bringing flexibility into the system and by giving renewable energy, which everyone here is convinced we need, every opportunity. Last year around this time, about eleven months ago, windmills were switched off just because the available nuclear capacity could not modulate. We must choose and invest in the future. We must not subsidise the past. The challenge is also the security of supply, by ensuring that the volume is certainly not too large and not too small for me to mention Mrs Dierick. That is precisely what security of supply is about. Finally, as Mr Verduyckt said, there is competition. We have a highly concentrated market, where assets are held by a limited number of players. The liberalisation, which we have seen in the supplier market with many suppliers, we would also like, if possible, to see on the production market. That is why we try to take this into account in the design, so that everyone can have all the opportunities and we can further open up the production market. In order to meet and overcome these challenges, we need focus, clarity and certainty. We must not dwell too much on the problems of the past. We must look ahead and at the same time keep the course. Time is short. That is why it is all the more important to be transparent, which is why I welcome debates such as the current debate, and to provide certainty and to continue. The work is not complete today, not for Parliament and not for the government. For example, the government still has a number of important implementing decisions to take. Three of them have already been discussed at the Council of Ministers. The rest will normally be presented tomorrow. I cannot, of course, anticipate the decisions of the government. In any case, the set of implementing decisions is ready and, if the government is approved tomorrow, can be consulted by the Council of State. We will ask for that advice within 30 days. Even if it is a major technical issue, it also has a major impact, and that is why proper legislative work is needed. Afterwards, the royal decisions will be resubmitted to the government at second reading in order to be able to take the volume decision afterwards. In the meantime, here, in the hemisphere or in a committee room, we also have a number of other discussions with the committee on the basis of the resolution adopted. For example, it is necessary to clarify the committee's explicit request for transparency by giving access to the documents relating to the demand curve. I have already said in committee debates that I am honoring them. After the vote on the proposed text here we will have those debates over the next few weeks, but of course it is up to the committee to organise its work. Afterwards, we will see each other again to discuss, among other things, the reports that are still in preparation, and legislative work on affordability, the federal share of the invoice and the energy standard in September or October. So both the government and Parliament still have a lot of work to do. The elaboration of the CRM remains a shared exercise, for which I would like to thank everyone here today. That would not have been possible today without the many work done by many teams, by many people. I am talking about Parliament itself and the various political groups, which, in June last year, created the framework for the government's work, and which has set the balance, inter alia, in terms of transparency, information and affordability. Every group in Parliament has taken up the same challenge here today. Without Parliament, without its initiatives at various times, such as the organisation of hearings last year, it would not have been possible to discuss this text today. It wouldn't have been possible without the government. The government with full authority has been able to bring the same strength to the team. It has been able to bring the same strength to bear in order to bring the matter to a successful conclusion by converting into this draft law, on the one hand, and into the implementing decisions, on the other hand, contained in the government agreement. I would like to thank all the coalition partners and all the teams that have worked on this. Parliament and the government have only been able to do the work through the excellent expertise and support of the administration, the network manager and the regulator, Elia and the CREG, gathered in the follow-up committee, set up at the time to pool and distribute the roles, tasks and powers. It is they who feed both Parliament and the government with figures, reports and analyses. Then there is the European Commission, which will look over our shoulder. Some of you have said that's annoying. I don't mind. It is clear that we are intervening here and that we are providing support from the government. Then the question of state aid must always be resolved. The European Commission's investigation will contribute to the legal certainty of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud and especially grateful for this text, which will be voted on shortly. It's an important step. Our energy policy, which has been a bit comatose in recent years, we awaken with a defibrillator. Caution and vigilance must be maintained. Doing nothing is not an option. If we can continue along the same path and get our hands together, I am convinced that we can bring the challenge to a successful conclusion, which we can be proud of together, that we will create the necessary certainty and clarity for the market and, more importantly, that we will take the road towards climate neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u38	Madam Minister, it is clear that there is still work to be done to align with what we agreed in the resolution. I cannot say that I am a little disappointed because Parliament had given the government a good five months to ensure that it would get the financing story through and come up with proposals. In this way, Parliament would be able to consider for a sufficiently long time what that would give and whether the funding proposed is proportionate to any auction of capacity later in the year. Now that order is reversed. You said you needed nine to ten months more than Parliament gave you. Well, that's problematic. I will continue to ask you questions about it so that this dossier will come to Parliament, because now it is a bit delirious. At one point, when Mr Leysen started discussing how we are going to deal with financing, he suddenly spoke about the next legislature. Then I get all suspicious on that plane. You didn't say that. He said that. So it's on him. However, I believe that our citizens and businesses should know where they stand. We have indeed ensured that it does not go on the electricity bill, but that does not exclude that it ends up on another citizen's invoice. We absolutely want to ensure that this does not happen. That's important to us. Just now it was about records that were broken today by wind energy at sea and on land. Colleagues, I think I should also stress that there are records on low-carbon energy. Actually, we all do. We are going for renewable energy to ensure that we can produce electricity without having an impact on the climate, or have a very small impact on the climate. Our region should be proud to have delivered 12 gigawatts of low-carbon electricity this afternoon, which we and the surrounding countries have benefited from. In this way, fossil energy production could be switched as low as possible. I know that the government occasionally postulates that it only counts if it is renewable, but it doesn't matter for the climate. You said a while ago that you agreed with Bill Gates. For the sake of completeness, I have just reread the book and he clearly indicates that it is ultimately about the climate. If we make a distinction between renewable energy and nuclear energy in order to determine the impact on the climate, we will always be too late. That is an important aspect. You have just referred to our very specific mechanism in which we also give way to demand management. We even reserve separate capacity for that. That too is something that Parliament has invented. At the time, I did not expect the majority to follow my amendment. Besides, it was not the very majority who followed me, but some crucial people. Important decisions have been taken in this area, but this must be extended to the end. Because I'm still a little worried. If the consultant comes here with calculation work saying that 70 % of the new capacity will be CITY, 5 % open cycle gas plant and 25 % CHP, then we don't go to the point where we need to get out. You have seen today that a certain gas capacity in this country did not switch back, in particular the capacity of CHP. If that capacity is going to double within a few years, and there is something to be said for that, then we must also be careful not to get that gas capacity sick in the same bed as the nuclear sector in that area. I therefore believe that steps need to be taken in this area. I also welcome your proposal to come to the committee with the follow-up to the story. I have already raised this question within our committee. Given the support for it within your government and your repeated third offer, I think it can be put on the agenda in this way. I suspect that Mrs De Block, present here, will be able to present it to Mr Dewael, chairman of the Energy Committee, who should take the initiative in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u39	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u40	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1779/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1779/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u41	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u42	Transmitted by the Senate Submitted by the Senate
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u43	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Guillaume Defossé, referred to the written report. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u44	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1444/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1444/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u45	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u46	Draft transmitted by the Senate Draft submitted by the Senate Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nahima Lanjri, Jan Briers, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u47	In accordance with Rule 85(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion of the single rule. (1445/1) Pursuant to Rule 85 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is taken as the basis for the discussion of the sole Rule. (1445/1) The discussion of the single article is open. The discussion of the single article has been opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u48	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u49	Thank you very much for giving the rapporteur extra time for the debate in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an important and difficult debate. It's about how we can best protect people who are struggling in society, people with disabilities. These are typical files that are intrinsically interesting, but also very complex and difficult. This is where three areas always come together. There is a legal dimension, in addition to a political dimension, but above all a very human dimension. It is about very concrete people who sometimes have to organise their lives in non-evident circumstances. I would like to address these three areas. First of all, the legal dimension. It is interesting for the general picture of the debate to briefly map where we stand today in the field of rights protection. I would like to briefly remind you of a number of legal and constitutional provisions. The 2007 anti-discrimination law also prohibits discrimination based on disability. This law also applies to employment relationships or other relationships between individuals, for example a company and an employee. There are also a number of conventions, including in particular the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It includes a wide range of human rights protections. This concerns mainly political protection, civil rights, but also economic, social and cultural rights. That treaty has direct effect for several articles, but it has a very broad impact. For example, it is used by judges to shape case law. There is therefore legislation in this area. There is also ground legislation. It contains two important provisions. Articles 10 and 11 are the general provisions on non-discrimination and equal treatment and are used in the legal world, both by the legislator and by the judiciary. These also apply, by definition, to people with disabilities. Article 23 of the Constitution is very important. This clearly states that people are entitled to a decent life, including economic, social and cultural rights. Point 2 of that article refers to the right to social security and the right to health protection, but also to the protection of social, medical and legal assistance. Point 5 of that article mentions cultural and social development. Article 23 is very close to my heart personally, because it is an interesting article for a lawyer, but also because part of the article carries a family history. My father used to be a Member of Parliament and was at the time leading the way to the entry of Article 23 in the Constitution. I've heard that story several times at the kitchen table. Rightly so, because it is an important article of the Constitution that goes very wide in scope and guarantees social development for all. In addition to the legal framework, there is the human dimension. There is indeed protection through a number of legal provisions, but the question is whether this protection should be strengthened. Everyone will agree that the daily obstacles faced by people with disabilities are still too great. Those people have concerns that they should not really have, and we must do everything we can to move forward step by step, even with great strides, at all levels. Measures are also being taken at Flemish level to provide people with disabilities with what they need. The road is long and the resources are unfortunately not unlimited. We must therefore provide for this additional protection, but the question is how it is best done. Finally, we come to the combination of both dimensions: on the one hand there is the legal one and on the other hand there is the human one. It is up to politics to bring both together and to see how this protection can be organised in the best way possible. I'm a lawyer, but I've been a Member of Parliament for a while. The question that arises is whether it is best to introduce an additional article into the Constitution. Unfortunately, I am not convinced, not as a lawyer either as a politician or as a human being, for two reasons. Firstly, in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, judges can already act today. It has just been mentioned, but it has been reaffirmed and even strengthened in a number of opinions, in particular the opinion of Professor Uyttendaele, constitutional specialist. He clearly indicated that even the Constitutional Court says that Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitutional Treaty provide for equal treatment and non-discrimination to be followed by a positive obligation for the legislator to take action in this area. Several lawyers said at the Senate hearings and reiterated in the Chamber that adding an article to Articles 10 and 11 would risk going in the opposite direction, in particular that the freedom of interpretation that exists today and which judges use de facto does not broaden, but narrows. That would be a de facto step backwards in this matter. I do not think that this would benefit people with disabilities. I am afraid that this also applies to the article that is close to my heart, Article 23 of the Constitution. If one were to make a separate article for people with disabilities, they would be taken out of the protection of Article 23. Then we risk getting a number of legal questions to which it is difficult to answer. We all know that under Article 23 there is a standstill clause. Here one could take a sort of symbolic step forward by anchoring that nomination in the Constitution, which I do understand, symbols are important, but at the same time one could legally weaken the position of people with disabilities, just because one separates them from the general protection provision that is currently contained in Article 23 of the Constitution. If all this is taken together, it translates into a abstention for our group. That is not an obvious consideration that is being made, but it is a very reasoned one. After all, we believe that the signal should be given that it is important to anchor symbols and that the Constitution does indeed have a role to play in this, but we, as politicians, should also be attentive to the question of whether this would not be potentially counterproductive rather than productive. With our abstention, we want to give that signal. With our abstention, we also want to send another message. This is the final point of my speech. It's a long meeting today, but I see strange things happening. We are debating today how to organise additional protection for people with disabilities, but we have just discussed a government bill laying down provisions on family taxation. You may have heard our very expert colleague from N-VA, Joy Donné, who explained that what is being sold in that bill as a tax reduction actually amounts to a tax increase for many people. It is rather strange that there should be a debate here on additional protection and lowering thresholds for people with disabilities, which is very symbolically enshrined in the Constitution, and that a draft law should be adopted on the same afternoon, which would raise that threshold just for people with disabilities. Mr Joy Donné explained this expertly. Undoubtedly, Mr Donné has also referred to Jef Wellens, a fiscalist at Wolters Kluwer, whom I quote about this bill: 'What is being sold as an additional budget issue', it is an additional concession, 'in the long term appears to be turning into a saving measure. About ninety thousand resident 65-plussers are reported as dependents in the tax bill today, eleven thousand of whom are severely disabled." The fiscalist of Wolters Kluwer, not N-VA, says that the bill of the purple-green government, which was discussed here this afternoon and is likely to be adopted later, will actually represent a step backwards for 11 000 people with disabilities. You must forgive me, but if I put both dossiers together, I wonder what message you would like to send to people with disabilities. Is it a symbolic signal, an article in the Constitution, or is it a very real signal, that from the moment the bill is adopted, gradually rising and certainly from 2024, de facto for 11 000 people with severe disabilities, a tax increase means an additional obstacle rather than anything else? That is why I think Parliament is looking very deeply at itself and thinking about what exactly is before us for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not every day that we amend the Constitution. Discussions on the Constitution are important and profound. I believe that we have every interest in making informed amendments to the Constitution. That is an appeal to all of you and at the same time to the government. This government has the ambition to change the Constitution in different ways in this legislature, but also in the future. There is, of course, a reference to state reform, but also to fundamental rights. The government had announced that it would submit a proposal to Parliament from the beginning of the legislature so that the debate could be opened. It is not just about state reform, it is also about fundamental rights. The coalition agreement said this would happen at the start of the reigning period. In the meantime, we are waiting five months for the text, which is still not there. In mid-February 2021, there was also Mrs Barbara Pas' question, on which Minister Verlinden's reply was that she would receive the text the following week. I asked again a week or two ago because we had still not seen the text. The answer was then that we would get the text in the short term. Even later, she said that we would be given the text at the time when the dialogue platform would be announced. We are talking here about amending the Constitution. Such dossiers are, as I have already indicated, legally, humanly and politically very sensitive dossiers. It would therefore be a good thing if Parliament could take all the time and space to do so. This starts with the government, which honours its own promises and therefore also provides the list of articles which are subject to revision, as soon as possible. When the government took office, it did not succeed, but I assume that the list can be delivered to Parliament without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u50	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today we have the opportunity, thanks to our colleagues in the Senate who have forwarded this draft revision to us, to take a decision on this important step forward. The purpose of this new article is to include in the Constitution the right of every person with disabilities to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. I have listened to my colleague Loones, who has just expressed the reservations of the N-VA Group which I do not share. The Ecolo-Groen Group believes, on the contrary, that there are many reasons to welcome this text. Belgium is already bound by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which dates from 2006. Does this mean that this new article of the Constitution has no added value, and that, as my colleague says, it weakens the protection available to persons with disabilities? We don't think so. Of course, we do not have new legal commitments as such here, but we have the opportunity to reaffirm Belgium's commitments. We have an opportunity to show how seriously we take them, by offering them a constitutional anchor. We will thus be able to mobilise what the professor of law, Isabelle Hachez, a constitutionalist specializing in issues related to the rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities, calls the toolbox which ensures the effectiveness of fundamental rights, in particular the principle of standstill, the combination with the principle of equality and non-discrimination which is enshrined in articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. In this regard, the preparatory work that has been carried out in the Senate is very rich. I am therefore pleased that, as a result of our colleagues in the Senate, we can highlight and raise awareness of the specificities of persons with disabilities through this revision project. I would like to point out that the interest and added value of a categorical approach is not to withdraw the general protection, but to put forward, to raise awareness of an issue that affects a specific minority, a category that is insufficiently protected by universal rights precisely because they are not fully adapted to the needs of the minority in question. It is therefore a matter of guaranteeing access to and substantial enjoyment of these rights, beyond their recognition on paper. In order to ensure full access and enjoyment of rights, a dual dimension must be taken into account and articulated. It seems to me that this is very well elaborated in the article as it is formulated: on the one hand, a vision of inclusion and universal accessibility, which is the horizon, the compass, the red thread that crosses the entire UN convention; on the other hand, reasonable accommodation, which allows us to stick as closely as possible to the individual needs of persons with disabilities, precisely to give substance to these rights and to guarantee substantial equality in all fields. So you will understand that environmentalists support this important step forward. However, it would not be a matter of thinking that our work is going to stop there. On the contrary, this is where it all begins. In the words of the European Court of Human Rights, since its jurisprudence in Airey v. Ireland in 1979, it is a matter of "protecting and implementing rights that are not theoretical and illusory, but concrete and effective". Of course, if we stopped here, it would be purely symbolic. That said, if there is a place where we can afford to put symbols, it seems to me, it is in the Constitution. On the other hand, it is up to us to act so that it does not just remain symbolic. It is up to us to ensure that this does not end there. After the constitutional cap, it is up to us to put on the legislative cap to extend these constitutional commitments by means of legislative advances that give substance to this framework. Much work needs to be done, particularly on the deeply social dimension of disability. Yes, disability is also built by society. The look taken can be stigmatizing, while the environment in which the person is living can be a source of disability. It is all these aspects that will have to be the subject of ambitious legislation in the wake of this change. In doing so, we will have to remain attentive to the participation of persons with disabilities in the drafting of legislation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am done. The ecologists are delighted to be able to support this beautiful advance by their vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, given the late hour, I will greatly reduce what I had planned to say to you. Unlike previous speakers, I will not have a sophisticated legal approach but rather a humane approach to this issue. I feel that people with disabilities will welcome with satisfaction and emotion the fact that we are going to vote in favour of including this article in our country's Constitution. It is certainly a recognition of the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities, as it is for all other citizens. As legislators, we express a strong political will to affirm both the equal rights of citizens and to advocate the solidarity of all in order to make this equality and these rights effective. People with disabilities, parents, families, educators, accompanying them are aware of the difficulties experienced in everyday life, the galleys, the combatant's journeys. The world of disability also knows where we come from. Madam Minister, I would like to speak to you about Diderot's letter on the blind and his letter on the deaf and dumb, but it will be another time. People have awakened the consciences so that society can take another look. In 2006, all this invisible outreach work led to the vote on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It was a very important moment, a victory for these people, a recognition of their rights in full equality with other citizens and in an approach that is no longer medical but in relation to human rights. At the time, there were voices in the debate at the United Nations, before and after the vote on the text, to say that, in the end, it did not bring new rights, that there was no added value, that it had no interest... I believe that the sector is well aware that this Convention was an engine for all States parties, which have made efforts. Since then, for fourteen years, much has been achieved. It is true that there are no new rights. In fact, it is simply the assertion that all common rights must be fully exercised for persons with disabilities, who are hindered in their access to rights either by an inadequate environment or by inappropriate behaviour on the part of other citizens, prejudice, discrimination and others. I want to say that, for fourteen years since this text was voted (this was ratified in 2009), considerable work has been done within all levels of power, such as the Regions, the Communities or the federal government. All the necessary bodies had been set up, but the Unia report showed that, unfortunately, there were still many discriminations and many areas in which persons with disabilities did not have full access. We are aware of all these barriers, such as income, the high proportion - 40% - of people with disabilities living below the poverty line, accessibility to buildings and services, mobility and intellectual accessibility. Finally, I want to say that today we are putting an act in place by including this article in the Constitution, but that does not prevent us from carrying out concrete actions on a daily basis. Among these actions, I wanted to highlight two. The first is the abolition of the "price of love", which we have been talking about for twenty years, and which is contrary to the UN Convention, which recognizes the right to privacy and the right to parenthood, but not with a financial penalty. It is now an aspect that has been eliminated. The second action is that our work in plenary session is translated into sign language. I would like to congratulate you, Madam President, you and the Bureau, who made this decision, because it is really a pilot experiment. This can be called reasonable accommodation, which allows the information to be communicated to persons who are deaf and hard of hearing. I hope we will insert this article. It is not annoyance, as has been said. It is perhaps a symbolic act; it is also a political act, certainly. It also has legal significance. I can tell you that the disability sector will certainly use the fact that it is in the Constitution if, by chance, by negligence, some legislation proves to be contrary to the full integration of persons with disabilities. And that in no way prevents us, Parliament and government, from continuing to take concrete action to try to achieve the goal of full inclusion. With regard to reasonable accommodation, I believe that universal access to rights must be guaranteed to everyone. In the end, there is an obligation for the public authorities, at all levels, to achieve results. I conclude by welcoming the work of our fellow senators, Philippe Courard, Bert Ancials and Sabine de Bethune, who took the initiative of the debate and led it to a certain determination after hearings. I think they have done a very comprehensive job in the Senate, which is our responsibility today; I thank them and congratulate them. I would like to tell you in this brief speech that it is obviously with conviction and enthusiasm that the Socialist Group will approve this bill, which will guarantee full inclusion for all in our society. It's the shortest version I could do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u52	Madam President, a carelessness has crept into my speech. In view of the subject, I would like to correct it. I am talking about the draft bill that has just been discussed and which will be voted on shortly. I said that there were 90,000 carers and that 11,000 of them would decline. Mr Donné points out to me that this information is incomplete. There are indeed 90,000 carers, but 80,000 of them will decline, including 11,000 people with disabilities. That is what I wanted to say for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u53	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of the rights of people with disabilities, while ensuring full inclusion in society, is particularly important for our group. I have been a member of the Welfare Committee in the Flemish Parliament for 20 years and have been trying to defend the interests of those people throughout this period. I can testify that there is still a great deal of work to be done today in 2021. In order to recognise and ensure the rights of persons with disabilities, it is necessary to follow the right path and use the right instruments. The introduction of a new article into the Constitution alone is not enough and will not further support and recognise the rights of those people. There are still a lot of obstacles in our society for people with disabilities. I am thinking, for example, of the poor accessibility of public buildings. Recently, I asked the Minister of Justice about the accessibility of the courthouses and the answer was truly astonishing. If you are serious about making reasonable adjustments, as requested here, please do something about them. Make funds available to make those buildings accessible. There are many other examples. Public transport is still very difficult for wheelchair users to access. I am also thinking of the footpaths, the financial resources that are absolutely inadequate, the inadequate housing, the long waiting lists in the many amenities, and I can continue to list many poignant situations for a while. Several parties always make very nice promises as a result of the elections, but once in power, these beautiful promises are often forgotten. Colleagues, more resources for a tailor-made human care sector, finally getting rid of the waiting lists completely in the disability sector, developing a policy to ensure that these people are actually integrated into our society in practice too. For the record, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a matter of federal powers. The greatest of these powers, most of the bottlenecks, belong to the powers of the Communities. The corona crisis has also made it painfully clear how difficult it is for people with disabilities. I am thinking, for example, of the institutions where these people reside and where they were really cut off from ordinary society, without having any contact with family and friends. They felt, rightly, abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of legislation today that protects and supports people with disabilities. I am thinking, for example, of legislation prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability. I am thinking of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There are many others, Mr Loones has just given a complete overview of them. I have read this text carefully. He gives the impression that people with disabilities would not be able to avail themselves of existing fundamental rights and other rights today. We have to be honest, ladies and gentlemen: this is actually not right. The fundamental principles of equality and non-discrimination follow a positive obligation for the legislator in relation to persons with disabilities to organise adjustments and take positive discrimination measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the discussion of this proposal in the Constitutional Commission. Most of the groups have recognised that this is actually a code of symbolism. I acknowledge, symbols can be very important. We have had an interesting discussion and we have had the debate on the substance. I have been thinking about Mr Dewael's speech in committee, who has expressly said that both theses are perfectly compatible. After a long thought-out and discussion within our group, I have to say that this is indeed true. That is why our group wants to change its voting behaviour and support this proposal. I would like to give two very clear warnings. Firstly, this proposal must not open the door to extending the Constitution further with all possible rights in the future, because that should not be the intention. Secondly, and I think that is even more important, Mr Dewael has acknowledged that much remains to be done. Unfortunately, he is not here today, but you can read that in the report. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, if you really mean it, real changes are being made as a matter of urgency. Translate your beautiful and legitimate goals effectively into the right policies and this at the various levels. Ensure that a genuine inclusive society is implemented in this country by means of concrete measures. This can only be done by making sufficient financial resources available for this purpose. I hope that you will not betray the confidence of our group later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are dealing with an essential issue which aims to reaffirm, in our Constitution, in a clear and unequivocal manner, that it is under no circumstances justified that persons with disabilities should be discriminated against. They enjoy, like any person who is not in this situation, the rights and freedoms guaranteed by Title II of our Constitution and international law. We strongly defend, as Liberals, equal rights for all Belgians, as affirmed in Articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution. This necessarily implies equality in terms of accessibility and this accessibility requires that, in the organisation of our society, the situation of persons with disabilities, regardless of their disability, be adequately taken into account. They do not have to adapt to society, but rather to adapt and respond to their specific needs. This affects a wide range of circumstances (mobility, work, education, culture, housing, political participation, etc.) This requires that all public authorities with competences and responsibilities in this area take the necessary steps to ensure that full inclusion is achieved. I want simple examples. I had the opportunity to take part, some time ago, in a course in front of the station of Brussels-Central, an awareness of the malvoyance. You made this journey with a blindfold on your eyes and, at some point, walking on the "podotactile pads", the path stopped in the middle of nowhere or came to hit a wall. This was obviously unacceptable. This inclusion must therefore be done in collaboration with the persons concerned. All this is already within the scope of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2006, ratified by Belgium in 2009. This Convention is the reference instrument in this field. Belgium has already taken a large number of initiatives to comply. Nevertheless, it must be noted that people with disabilities still face certain material obstacles, such as the example I gave, or symbolic, or administrative, or virtual. It should also be noted that these obstacles can be particularly difficult to overcome in crisis situations such as today, where a large number of specific measures are taken. In this context, it is a question of taking into account the specificities and needs of persons with disabilities, always imagining that each of us can be in a situation of disability. By anchoring in the Constitution the right of persons with disabilities to full inclusion in society, we want to reiterate the political will to act on this important issue. We thus strengthen the legal basis for this right. We thus respond to the concern expressed in 2014 by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which noted, inter alia, that the Belgian legislative framework had not yet been harmonized in order to comply with the Convention. This draft revision of the Constitution, which we are dealing with today, is therefore a positive one, and we will, as the MR Group, give our full support to it. I thank our colleagues in the Senate for the work that has been done on this important issue. I would also like to point out that any amendment to the Constitution is a very strong and meaningful act with value and intent. Any change in our fundamental law is the result of a reflection that is intended to be pragmatic and not merely symbolic, at the risk, if we wish to remain merely symbolic and not give concrete consequences to the text that will be voted on, to strengthen the rights that are there. This exercise must not lead to vain promises. It must be a real added value for citizens. That is the condition that we have in mind when we vote on this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u55	Madam President, this is an important revision of the Constitution that the PTB will support because people with disabilities are, according to the UN, the largest minority on this planet with almost 15% of the population concerned. In these times of coronavirus, this population has suffered especially like everyone else but even more. The crisis of the covid left deep traces in the lives of persons with disabilities and their families. This is also apparent from an investigation by Unia, which points out, in particular, that they had the impression of being abandoned. They felt like they didn't really count. Their caregivers are exhausted. Social contacts have been put on hold. People with disabilities have been under severe psychological pressure and have often felt even more lonely than in the usual situation. Tensions have accumulated in the family environment. Containment has led to the postponement of many conventional health care. It has become even more difficult for people with disabilities to attend courses or training. Finally, the lack of clear information on corona measurements has led to additional stress for many people as it was not easy to know where everyone could reside during confinement. I want to give two short testimonies about this. First, a relative with a disabled child: "The lives of many families have been upset. Family members were exhausted because caring for a person with a disability was even heavier than usual. Sometimes it was heartbreaking to have to make certain choices: leave your child in the shelter or take him home and be alone in taking care of him." There is also another testimony from a person with a disability: "I feel that I have become increasingly invisible and unknown while regional and federal organizations have me as a beneficiary in their computers. There is an important dysfunction because it is not for the person himself to have to mobilise the few resources that he has, if he has any, to find help." It is therefore important to include this right in the Constitution. It is also important to ensure that this remains not just an additional article in the Constitution, such as the social rights of article 23, which guarantee the right to health, housing and work, but with the situations that are known in real life. I mentioned that earlier when we were looking at the government's tax bill. How can we not link the two facts? On the same day, at the same plenary session, this inclusion in the Constitution was discussed, and in the draft considered shortly before, there was a situation in which taxpayers who took dependants would be taxed. This will be a tax increase all the more serious as the person will be disabled. As I explained earlier, a person who takes a dependent parent will lose 521 euros in a year, but if that same parent is disabled, it is no longer 521 euros, but 1 264 euros in additional tax. It is obviously a sad coincidence that warns us against simply putting principles in the Constitution. It must also be taken into account. Compared to this, the PTB has a series of requests and points of attention to the government. We call on the government to pay particular attention, especially in this situation of health crisis. Provision must be made for domestic assistance and psychological support, continuity of care, and assistance in taking leave to care for a person in need at home. Child care must also be facilitated. Most persons with disabilities report that there has been no major progress in recent years and that there are many difficulties in the exercise of their rights. Access to a decent standard of living is one of their main concerns. I refer to a study by Unia in 2019. I will quote Patrick Charlier, director of Unia, who says: "Sixty percent of respondents say that their disability prevents them from having a decent standard of living that allows them to eat, dress, and live properly. They report that the additional costs associated with their disability are extremely high and that the benefits they receive only allow them to survive. In Belgium, the employment rate of persons with disabilities is very low. In addition, they often work in more precarious or part-time jobs." In our view, persons with disabilities are entitled to an unconditional income above the poverty line. However, in Belgium, 25 per cent of people with disabilities live below this threshold, compared with an average of 15 per cent for the population. Income is one of the determinants of the autonomy of persons with disabilities. The various formulae that improve the financial accessibility of health care provided for persons with disabilities or sick persons must also be automatically granted to beneficiaries who are entitled to it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, our vision of society is a vision of an inclusive, emancipating and democratic society, including persons with disabilities. We want them to have as much autonomy as possible and to be involved in decisions that affect them. Inclusion must take place from birth to old days in order to guarantee a dignified life, and this requires respect for the rights of persons with disabilities, with the necessary budgets, of course. In short, much work remains to be done to achieve a truly inclusive society in which everyone can find their place. Amending the Constitution is a strong gesture that we support but that is not enough if it is limited to this inclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u56	Madam President, some Members have rightly said that this is an important symbolic and political act. The amendment of a constitutional article is always a political act. However, it is also a legal act and the truth is being violated if it is said that the amendment is purely symbolic. Any legislative initiative adopted after the adoption of the proposed amendment can and will be assessed under the relevant constitutional article. The adoption of the amendment of the Constitution alone will impose positive obligations not only on the federal but also on the regional legislator. There will therefore be additional legal protection for disabled people, and we think that is an excellent thing. For any administrative measure taken by any government, let this future constitutional article be the test. I would like to thank all those who have supported the initiative, in particular senatrice de Bethune, who started it in the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u57	Madam President, I had planned a shorter speech in view of the late hour, but in view of the speech made by the first speaker and also out of respect for the people with disabilities, it is important to discuss the subject in greater detail today despite the late hour. I would like to say, first of all, that on Sunday 28 February 2021 in De Seventhe Dag, I was particularly hopeful that the call for an inclusive Flanders, of one of our fellow Members, would result in fewer abstentions. One political party has certainly responded to this. For the other parties, it is just a matter of waiting for the vote to take place. In any event, twelve years after the ratification of the UN Convention, this constitutional revision would be a heartfelt commitment to all associations representing people with disabilities and fighting for recognition for many years. Madam Minister, our parliamentary group in the Senate was the co-sponsor of the sp.a Group, which will, of course, fully support the present constitutional revision. It will do so for the following reasons, which I would like to repeat, given the importance of the proposal. Firstly, the text before us is a fine, sound text and a successful translation, which takes into account both the input of the hearings in the Senate and the legal advice provided. Secondly, every word was recited and weighed. For example, the word integration was deliberately replaced by inclusion, because it is not the person who has to adapt but is the society and the environment that needs to be adapted. For example, people with disabilities were also deliberately chosen, not disabled people, because this terminology is more in line with the definition and spirit of the UN Convention. Moreover, this does not so much put forward the restrictive medical approach for those who, as Mr Loones pointed out earlier, should be protected, but rather the restrictive social environmental factors, which often make the person concerned unjustly excluded. In addition, the opinion of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities deliberately opted for the addition of the additional provision "including reasonable adjustments" because it is necessary to obtain inclusion, but we also realise that unreasonable adjustments are not at issue. This is without prejudice to the general obligation of accessibility, in connection with which there is still a great deal of political work to be done. Thirdly, it is a realistic proposal, which takes into account the powers, responsibilities and the different speeds of the various authorities in order to achieve an inclusive society. It is no secret that, in our opinion, there had to be an article 11ter and not an article 22ter, but in the end we went for it. This choice shows an understanding of the fact that the various governments do not have to implement that inclusive society immediately from today to tomorrow, but it obliges them to achieve it gradually and systematically. What is more important is the standstill principle, which obliges them to maintain the progress that is being made. That progress has yet to be made. I was surprised by the accusation earlier on the evening when we discussed the draft law on family taxation, that we have little or no attention for people with disabilities. I've always learned at home that people don't put the cart in front of the horse. The horse here is the constitutional review. Let's get it over with first. Then it is also very important that we make sure that the carts are driving and that there is a change. The proposal meets our international obligations. The proposal also finally responds to these social aspirations and the long-standing demand of the entire disability sector and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities to anchor the right to full inclusion in the Constitution. There were also critical reservations, and we have to be honest about that. The criticism that the constitutional anchoring of the rights of persons with disabilities would undermine the general rights, which apply to all citizens, is, in our view, unjustified. There are indeed general rights that apply to everyone, including those with disabilities. However, we have all listened to Unia's reports. Someone referred to it, too. We can see that much remains to be done in reality. If these rights are to be made concrete and tangible for those specific target groups, they must also be specified. Therefore, Article 22b should not be regarded as a favorable article, but rather as a necessary additional article and a means of achieving that equality and inclusion. We're not standing there alone. Mrs Spinoy, who was a doctor at KU Leuven on anti-discrimination law, stated in an article in De Standaard that the addition of this article has absolute added value and also provides a constitutional basis for positive discrimination in favour of persons with disabilities. Also the criticism that the addition of that article is intended to put people in a separate booth makes absolutely no sense. This article will lead people to finally get out of that booth. The amendment of the Constitution is also more than merely symbolic. Mr Verherstraeten already referred to the legal added value of the amendment. This is also recognised by the lawyers. In preparing my presentation in the Chambers, I was caught by a speech by one of the co-sponsors who, as a former Secretary of State, testified to a meal in complete darkness. He managed to move there, eat and drink with the help of a visually impaired person. He discovered his own weaknesses, but above all the strengths of a person with disabilities. In my opinion, this is an all-enabled testimony that really reflects the essence of the constitutional reform and of Article 22b. Allow all governments to assume their responsibilities to set up this society inclusive, to create an environment in which people with disabilities can participate as full citizens, where they can develop and deploy their abilities and talents and where, yes, they can show their strengths in particular. After all, they have them, but they are not always seen or can not always be shown, because society is not inclusively furnished. What I am advocating therefore results in a win-win situation for people with disabilities, but also for our society I am convinced of this and for you and I, if we are ever faced with a disability ourselves. No, we're not naive. The problems of people with disabilities are not solved by a constitutional article. In that sense, I absolutely agree with those colleagues who have already said so. However, this article of the Constitution sends a clear message to all governments, in order to systematically and progressively pursue an inclusive society and, above all, to maintain the progress that has been made. It recognises persons with disabilities as full citizens, by registering the recognition of their right to full inclusion in the Constitution. Moreover, it also has a legal added value. It gives the courts and courts a leverage to apply the UN Convention correctly. As Mr Verherstraeten said, it also allows all the laws to be reviewed in the future in accordance with that provision in the Constitution. This constitutional review is therefore more than just a symbolic step forward. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to call once again on all fellow Members not to abstain in the vote. Finally, I would also like to thank those who tabled the original proposal in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u58	Madam President, like my colleagues, I would of course like to welcome, on behalf of my group, the inclusion in our Constitution today of the right to the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in our society. The vote on a new constitutional text is always an important moment in the political life of a country, especially if it relates to Title II of the Constitution, which, as you know, is devoted to rights and freedoms. This is probably even more true today, in the midst of a pandemic, when we realize that these rights and freedoms are fragile for all of us, and especially for people with disabilities. The vote on a new constitutional text that enshrines the rights of the weakest and most fragile of us is of particular importance to us. This is the third time that this House has been seized by the Senate of a proposed constitutional revision aimed at enshrining the right to inclusion or integration of persons with disabilities or disabilities. As early as 2009, Francis Delperée, along with Philippe Monfils, submitted a proposal for a revision to that effect, and had it passed by the Senate in 2010, without any action by the House. In 2010, he handed over the work on the trade, and his proposal for article 22ter guaranteeing the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from appropriate measures to ensure their autonomy and cultural, social and professional integration was again adopted by the Senate, without any action by the House. Far from discouraging himself, Francis Delperée, who had become a Member of Parliament, submitted to the House his text, which had been adopted by the Senate, with some adaptations. That is to say how pleased we are at the success of this fight, led long ago by the CDH and Francis Delperée in particular. We are deeply convinced that the quality of a society is measured by how it treats its weaker members. Persons with disabilities are among them. It is therefore essential that we ensure their full inclusion in society, that we make it a right and that we include it in our Constitution, and more particularly in its Title II, which enshrines our fundamental rights and freedoms. As Francis Delperée said, the Constitution is a legal instrument and even the first of them, not a declaration of political philosophy. The difference is that the Constitution gives rise to rights which I, as a citizen, must be able to claim the benefit and which, in the event of a dispute, I can ask for protection from a court. The text must therefore be as effective as possible. The new Article 22ter of the Constitution therefore has an important symbolic value, but that is not all. It is also legal in that it enshrines a right that the various legislators of our country must guarantee and to which they cannot infringe by withdrawing rights already enshrined. It's the effect of standstill. While today's vote is important, because it is a form of success, it must above all be understood as an encouragement to redouble efforts to better include persons with disabilities in our society. I am thinking in particular of the development of day-care or human-sized accommodation facilities for people in need of significant assistance. I am also thinking of supporting close caregivers and families of persons with disabilities. I would like to remind you of their lack of access to employment through support for suitable functions. I am also concerned about their access to mobility, whether it be individual mobility or the use of public transport. The same applies to access to education, training and, in particular, non-specialised education. Finally, I am thinking of access to sport and culture through appropriate infrastructure. On all these points, we do not do enough and we do not live up to our duties. I hope that the adoption of Article 22ter of the Constitution will encourage the various responsible governments to rise to the challenges and to be more sensitive to the call of the constituent than they have so far been to the call of the United Nations General Assembly when it adopted, in 2016, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional Protocol. With this in mind, I hope that under the standstill effect, which everyone agrees to give to a new constitutional article, setbacks such as that which the majority is about to commit with regard to the tax advantages, although modest, granted to citizens who receive dependent persons from their homes, will no longer be possible. Besides, it's not too late for you to give it up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u59	Madam President, I am particularly pleased to speak on such a fundamental issue. Change our Constitution, we don't do it every Thursday! To change it to include a fundamental right, it is even rarer. It changes us from the last reforms of the state and it feels good! It is good to finally see in our Constitution the right of persons with disabilities to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. As Unia pointed out during her hearing in the Senate, it is not only about respect for all those who are an integral part of our society, but also about respect for our international commitments. First, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by our Assembly in 2009, which clearly calls upon States parties, and thus Belgium, to promote the full enjoyment of all human rights to persons with disabilities and, to this end, to adopt all appropriate legislative, administrative or other measures to implement the rights recognized in the Convention. Secondly, the recommendations made by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2014 in its report on Belgium. The committee noted that our country still does not have a harmonized legislative framework in this area, asking us to finally adopt a human rights-based approach to disability. We can therefore only welcome the fact that the right of persons with disabilities, who account for almost 15 per cent of the population, to full inclusion in society is finally enshrined in our Constitution. This anchoring was all the more urgent as the number of reports of discrimination on the basis of disability registered by Unia continues to increase from year to year. In 2018, out of a total of 2,192 reports, there were 604 potential cases of discrimination on the basis of disability, equivalent to almost 24% of all complaints filed with Unia. In 2019, out of 2,343 cases, there were 614 potential cases of discrimination on the basis of disability. These figures clearly demonstrate, if still necessary, that people with disabilities continue to face enormous difficulties in integrating into the labour and housing market, public transport, public roads, public buildings, schools and daily life. Today, only 23% of people with disabilities are employed. Today, only 10 per cent of school buildings are accessible to persons with disabilities. Today, moving is like a true journey of the fighter, if one has the misfortune of not being valid. I think, for example, of the right to access a restaurant's toilets when they're tiny and we're in a wheelchair. I think of the right to be understood in an administration, when one is autistic. I think of the right to be accepted when you are blind and accompanied by your help dog. I am also thinking of the parents of children with disabilities who, for lack of inclusion, lack adequate accommodation for persons with disabilities, are much more affected by psychological and financial difficulties than other parents, particularly exacerbated by the health measures of recent months. All this must change, simply because we all have our place in society, because every person, whatever his or her disability, must be able to emancipate himself or herself, because everyone must have easy and safe access to the place where he or she goes. For this, it was essential to have a sound legal framework. For what better than our fundamental text, than our Constitution! Unfortunately, Mr Loones is no longer present in this Chamber. But I really want to answer him because I listened carefully to the arguments he put forward. I was particularly surprised, in the wrong sense. I want him to know that I absolutely disagree with him when he talks about the perverse effects of Article 22ter or the sufficiency of Articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution. I do not agree with him because to grant persons with disabilities a specific right to accommodation that favours their inclusion implies the duty of the State to ensure them. This is therefore neither symbolic nor counterproductive. Disability is a specificity that requires specific protection. We have done so for minors in the context of Article 22bis of the Constitution, without weakening the scope of Article 23 of the Constitution. I would also like to remind Mrs Dillen, in particular, that Title II of the Belgian Constitution and their rights, in which this new Article 22ter will therefore be found, is part of the standards of the controls of our Constitutional Court. This means that when a person with a disability will have his or her right to inclusion denied by a law, decree or order, he or she may bring an action for suspension or annulment of that standard. So this is absolutely nothing symbolic. It is therefore a political and legal act that empowers persons with disabilities to enjoy and assert their rights. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that my group will support this project. Disability is today the first criterion of discrimination in our country. It was therefore more than time for persons with disabilities to be protected by our Constitution, demonstrating our country's commitment to ensuring the full enjoyment of their rights by persons with disabilities, regardless of their level of dependency. I really hope that this legislative progress will be followed by other practical advances mainly, in other words, more and more proactive inclusion policies, at all levels of power because, as Stephen Hawking said, "disability cannot be a handicap".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in my turn, I would like to welcome, thank and congratulate those who have worked to bring this vital issue to a successful conclusion. I am thinking particularly of colleagues Philippe Courard, Bert Anciaux and Sabine de Bethune. I obviously had to be here with you tonight. It is a historic day for people with disabilities but also for their families and for society as a whole. Finally, the Belgian Constitution clearly enshrines an inclusive society for persons with disabilities. This revision is far from being anecdotal; it is fundamental, not only because it concerns many of our fellow citizens too long and unjustly invisibly, but above all because it induces a real paradigm shift. Indeed, it is no longer up to the person with disabilities to adapt to society, to make efforts, to overcome immeasurable obstacles, but it is up to society to adapt and provide the necessary accommodation, reasonable accommodation to guarantee inclusion and all the conditions for persons with disabilities to live in dignity. This is a collective responsibility rather than an individual responsibility. Many of us were already convinced of this. It was time for the founding text of our State to enshrine it. Words have a powerful symbolic value but we must go further than words and, as you have all pointed out, it is the responsibility of all policies, and at all levels of power, to guarantee the effectiveness of this right. It is our actions that will make it possible to change the situation and the daily lives of people with disabilities, a situation that is neither satisfying nor acceptable. Belgium is a very bad student in this field. Inclusion of persons with disabilities must become a reflex. Disability must no longer be added to injustice. Since the beginning of this legislature, with the government, with Parliament, I have been working on it. The replacement allowance was increased on 1 January last year and will also be increased in 2022, 2023 and 2024. Similarly, the "price of love" has been abolished with regard to the integration allowance. This is a fight, I repeat, initiated by my colleague Delizée. Without him, I don't think we could have done it today. I'm not going to stop there. In the coming days, the Council of Ministers, under my leadership, will embark on the work of an ambitious mandistreaming plan. The federal action plan that I am currently working on, together with the other members of the government, will ensure that the situation of disabled people in Belgium improves fundamentally. We focus on inclusion, improvement of quality of life, general accessibility and cooperation. It's just the beginning and you can count on me. I know that I can count on Parliament as a whole. I therefore wanted to be here today to support this proposal and to confirm the commitment of the entire government because each and every one counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u61	The discussion of the single article is closed. The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the draft revision is reserved. The vote on the draft revision shall be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u62	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof) concerning the Paul Rusesabagina case, No. 1842/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the case of Paul Rusesabagina, No. 1842/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u63	The first urgent request concerns a proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment, with regard to the registration of temporary unemployed persons as jobseekers for reasons of force majeure. This is document No. 1829/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u64	Madam President, the federal government has decided to extend the suspension of compulsory registration as a job seeker for the temporary unemployed until 30 June, but in the meantime the Flemish Government has expressed its disagreement with this federal decision, including through Minister Crevits. The Flemish Government requests the compulsory registration of intensive temporary unemployed as from 1 April. This proposal therefore calls for registration from 1 April and therefore requires urgency. Thank you for granting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u65	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u66	The urgency is also requested for the proposal of special Law No. 1830/1 by Mr Björn Anseuw, Mr Wim Van der Donkt and Mr Sander Loones and Mrs Valerie Van Peel amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions as regards the allocation to the regions of competence for determining the normative framework for the availability of unemployed and job-seekers to the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u67	Madam President, building on the reasoning of Bill No. 1829 the aim of this proposal is to transfer to the Regions the legislative competence regarding the availability of the labour market. Today they are solely responsible for the decision and implementation of controls and sanctions, but not for the setting of rules and standards in this area. This is therefore a proposal to make powers more homogeneous. I do not doubt your support here either, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u68	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u69	Mrs Pas, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1831/1 amending the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties, with a view to reducing the number of party documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u70	Madam President, for us, it is time for the political parties' contributions to be reduced. It is our intention to carry out a linear reduction of all donations. At a time when many citizens in this country are having a very difficult financial situation because of all the government measures in the corona crisis, it is appropriate to set an example for themselves, especially with the recent influences that show that the parties have enough money to pay people to get a candidate on a list. At the same time, the support for the follow-up of measures is collapsing and confidence in politics has fallen below freezing. That justifies the urgency. This intervention is at least an opportunity for the government parties to restore the confidence of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u71	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u72	Mr Van Hees, you are asking for the urgency of the bill to abolish the curfew introduced in the fight against the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1834/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u73	Madam Chair, as her name suggests, this bill is intended to abolish curfews introduced in the fight against the covid pandemic. For us, there is an urgent need to have a debate and to abolish this curfew. This is a measure that has a strong impact on citizens' rights. We felt that it would not be extended, as a result of certain statements from, among others, the PS and the MR. Finally, we see that it is even aggravated, for example in Brussels. The government also wants to sustain the possibility of taking this step in its Pandemic Bill. We believe that it is high time for a public and transparent debate on this curfew, and a real assessment of its effectiveness. So I'm asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u74	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u75	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal to amend, with a view to the end of curfew, the Ministerial Decision of 8 October 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, No 1845/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u76	Madam President, I suspect that primary anti-communism is the reason why the previous question was just rejected by certain groups. That argument does not have to be taken into account in this question. We are responding to a question that was clearly asked by the Liberal colleagues, in particular by Open Vld-President Lachaert. After all, we wanted a parliamentary debate on this and that opportunity is now being given. I would like to give colleagues, including those who voted against the PVDA just now in principle, the opportunity to vote in favour of it. It is also our third question and the first two were rejected, and I think we are entitled to at least one urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u77	Madam President, out of respect for the decision of the Prime Minister of the Flemish Government at the meeting of the Consultation Committee last Friday, we will not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u78	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u80	Yes 87 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1792/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1792/04) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u82	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. The will be submitted to the King for ratification as a bill . (765/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (765/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u83	Vote on Article 1. Vote on Article 1. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u84	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts Article 1. Accordingly, the Board adopts rule 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u85	Vote on Article 2. Vote on Article 2. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u86	Yes 88 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts Article 2. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u87	Vote on Article 3. Vote on Article 3. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u88	Consequently, the Court adopts Article 3. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 3. Vote on Article 4. Vote on Article 4. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u89	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts Article 4. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u90	Vote on Article 5. Vote on Article 5. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u91	Consequently, the Court adopts Article 5. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 5. Vote on Article 6. Vote on Article 6. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u92	Consequently, the Court adopts Article 6. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u94	Yes 82 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1736/08) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1736/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u96	Yes 96 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1796/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1796/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u98	Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1337/14) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1337/14) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u99	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u100	Yes 83 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1779/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1779/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u102	Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1444/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1444/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u103	I would remind you that, in accordance with article 195 of the Constitution, a draft revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a draft revision of the Constitution may be adopted, provided that two thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its votes adopt it. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u104	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 136 Total The quorum of the presences shall be reached. A two-thirds majority is reached. Accordingly, the House adopts the draft revision of the Constitution. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1445/4) The quorum of those present has been reached. The two-thirds majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft revision of the Constitution. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1445/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip092x.u105	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 18, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 March 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
