ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u2	The President
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u3	"So you end up with all this emptiness. Yours aren't here anymore, you end up with this nothingness. You have no one to share it with, because those with whom you could have shared it, yours, are dead, and those who are alive are the perpetrators of these crimes. So you find yourself in a terrible void." These few words are those of a survivor of the genocide of the Tutsi in Rwanda. Unfortunately, they could apply to any other genocide. Following the Second World War, on 9 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. At the end of the war, the Allies had agreed to punish the Nazi war criminals, but only the notion of a crime against humanity was one of the charges of the Nuremberg Military Court. The concept of genocide itself was forged in 1943 by Raphaël Lemkin. This Polish jurist of Jewish origin, a professor of international law at Yale University in New York, had himself narrowly escaped Hitler's troops following the invasion of his country in 1939. Deeply marked by the possibility that a State might order the destruction of entire populations, national and religious groups, both biologically and culturally, Lemkin therefore contributed to the insertion of the word 'genocide' in the Convention adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1948. This 'unnamed crime', as Winston Churchill had called it, now had one. In September 2015, the same assembly established 9 December as the International Day of Commemoration of Victims of the Crime of Genocide, the affirmation of their dignity and the prevention of that crime. Belgium was to formally associate itself with this commemoration. This was done with the adoption by our House on 17 December 2020 of a resolution on the subject by our colleague Michel De Maegd. The Chamber of Representatives has undertaken to organise a day of reflection on genocide on the Friday closest to 9 December each year, in the presence of experts and those who remember, as well as young people and civil society representatives. Is there a better place to organise such a ceremony than a parliament, the beating heart of democracy and the guardian of the fundamental rights of citizens? However, the epidemiological situation also calls for greater caution this year. In my speech to the plenary session of 9 December 2021, I would like to honour this commitment and draw your attention to the fact that we all have a duty to remember. It is a fundamental duty and a moral requirement, but it is also a warning against all ideologies that contribute to creating the seeds for such crimes. In our society, which is changing more and more rapidly and where too often we do not have time for reflection, memory and reflection, it is essential that we continue to commemorate these events. That is why it is more necessary than ever to keep the memory alive, especially among younger generations, so that they never forget history, no matter how horrible and inhuman it is. Awareness must be the proverbial stump in the stomach, it must grab us by the throat so that we spread the message further, it must be of the kind that it brings about a reaction of resistance, so that we resist everything that undermines our fundamental achievements, namely democracy, human rights and freedom. The genocides of which we commemorate today's victims were all committed in the 20th century, the century of mass gatherings and the breakthrough of democracy, but also of conflicts of an unseen magnitude: world wars, 'purifications' in the name of totalitarian ideologies or ethnic conflicts in which whole population groups were sometimes sacrificed. It was in 1995 that the Chamber passed the law to punish the denial, minimization, justification or approval of the genocide committed by the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. The Shoah has this specific that it is the first example of modern barbarity organized in an industrial and scientific way. How could the Nazis form such executioners? In the face of these historically established facts, how do some still dare to deny the reality of such crimes? The speeches of these 'assassins de la Mémoire', as French historian Pierre Vidal-Naquet described them in his book of the same name, must be systematically deconstructed and their lies refuted. A survivor of the Nazi concentration camps, Benjamin Orenstein, who died this year, made a point of travelling through schools in France and Europe to witness what he had experienced. To the question he was often asked whether one could still live after the Shoah, he answered unambiguously: "There were two solutions: to accept humanity as it is or to commit suicide. Since I didn't want to commit suicide, I decided to deal with it." Every year around the date of 27 January, the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, our Assembly commemorates the victims of the Shoah - almost 6 million people including some 29,000 Belgians - during a sitting in our Chamber. On 27 January 2022, the last survivors of the camps and children hidden during the war will once again give moving testimonies about what they have experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, we all remember the atrocities committed in Rwanda in 1994. In April 2004, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of these events, the Senate adopted a resolution on the genocide of the Tutsi and the murder of Belgian citizens. In three months, a million people were killed. Men, women, and children perished under the blows of machetes; women were cut off to kill the fetuses; the Tutsi were massacred throughout the country. Another crime, the Srebrenica massacre in July 1995, was described by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia as genocide. Some 8,000 boys and men were killed by Bosnian Serb forces when they entered the city of Srebrenica. This was the greatest atrocity on European soil since the Second World War. The peak of horror also occurred in Cambodia, between 1975 and 1979, where entire villages were burned, entire populations massacred. How could the propaganda of this totalitarian regime thus manipulate the minds of an entire people? It was only forty years after the events that the Khmer Rouge genocide was recognized by international justice with the condemnation of two Khmer leaders still alive. Their leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998 without being tried. The total number of victims of the democratic Kampuchea policy will never be known with precision, but it is estimated that it ranges from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 people. In June 2015, Charles Michel, then Prime Minister, declared, in a speech in the plenary session of our assembly, that the tragic events from 1915 to 1917 perpetrated by the last government of the Ottoman Empire had to be described as genocide. Like other Member States of the European Union, national parliaments and parliaments of federated entities, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution on 23 July 2015 on the commemoration of the centenary of the Armenian genocide. The Belgian Parliament thus recognized the Armenian genocide perpetrated in the Ottoman Empire as a historical fact, necessary for reconciliation between the Turkish and Armenian peoples, which cannot take place without truth and memory. I think it is important to recall these facts, because their horror should prompt us to exercise constant vigilance. One must imagine how much all these victims have felt in the heart, body and mind unrelentingly abandoned. The pressing question is: how could it come to this, how could it happen that people have gone against what is human, and why can that happen today? How can we nip the preludes of genocide in the bud day after day, the hellish spiral of fear, hatred and exclusion? We must remain more vigilant, because the danger of genocide has not disappeared in different places in the world. Thus, in July 2021, our Assembly adopted a resolution to recognize and prosecute the crime of genocide against the Yezidis. On 30 November, a German court handed down a historic judgement sentencing an Islamic State fighter for genocide for life as a result of the abuses committed against that Kurdo-speaking community. Colleagues, We must never let our guard down. We have to stay alert at all times. We must never allow a situation to degenerate. Factors such as coup d'état, ethnic fault lines, violations of religious or political freedoms are sometimes sufficient to set fire to them. So we must preserve the memory and continue to work on education, because these black pages of history must never be forgotten. By remembering humanity remembers the meaning of the word 'genocide'. As UN Secretary-General Antonio Guttierez recalled, "the prevention of genocide concerns society as a whole. It is crucial that we all give our hands to uphold the principles of equality and human dignity and to repair the cracks and polarization that are so widespread in our societies today." I now give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, I would like to associate myself with the words of memory and the call to our constant vigilance just made by the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to observe a minute of silence in memory of all the victims of these genocides.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 December 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. At the request of the appellant, I propose to withdraw the inquiry on "the well-being of workers in the context of pollution at the PFOS", No 205, from the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. At the interpretant's request, I would like to propose the interplay on "the well-being of workers in the pfos scandal," No. 205, off this afternoon's agenda. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u7	I received amendments to the bill on measures to increase energy prices in 2021, No. 2332/1. I have received amendments to the draft law laying down measures in the light of high energy prices in 2021, no. 2332/1. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u8	Madam President, Minister, you will certainly have read the judgment yesterday, considering that delivery agents of a digital delivery platform should now be regarded as independent under labour law, in contrast to decisions taken in other countries, such as the Netherlands and Spain. You have recently said that we can no longer turn a blind eye to the development of this new economy and, above all, to the working conditions to which a series of workers are subjected, and you are right. But, in my view, it is still important not to oppose the old and the new economy. These can coexist as long as workers' rights are fully respected. I believe that there is room for everyone, provided that social law is respected and that the public authorities at all levels set the conditions for this coexistence. It is possible to regulate without destroying what some countries manage to do. It is precisely today that the European Commission will unveil its proposals on the work of digital platforms. Minister, my questions are quite simple. On the one hand, what is the status of the procedure for evaluating the law on the nature of working relations, carried out in collaboration with the social partners and the sectors concerned? On the other hand, how do you intend to combat the phenomenon of false self-employed and false employees? On the other hand, you said you wanted to reach a proposal for a revision of the law on the collaborative economy by 1 February 2022 at the latest. It needs to be revised, particularly in some of its aspects. I am thinking of one aspect that affects me in particular, namely the use of undocumented people. This was the case with a famous company. Since the Labour Court has now rendered its judgment, how do you intend to incorporate these findings into your thinking? Have you ever been able to draw any conclusions from the online consultation you conducted? If so, which ones? I'm curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I learned this morning that a delivery man had been in the hospital since yesterday with broken ribs, following a fall when he was delivering a meal. I will not teach you anything by telling you that he cannot obviously avail himself of certain social rights offered by the status of employee or by a real self-employed status. This courier who is unable to ride his bike for some time will be deprived of income, without being able to benefit from a replacement income. I don't usually comment on court decisions, but the decision to say that the couriers are independents makes us a good leg. Indeed, what does this decision mean? This means that they have to pay contributions from a salary of 9 euros per hour. Let's be serious! The judgment delivered yesterday, Minister, does not oblige Deliveroo to hire these delivery companies as employees, nor does it give reason to this company since delivery companies cannot enter the cooperative economy regime. On the other hand, the European Commission has decided. It has tabled a draft directive to provide for a presumption of wage-earnership, which will have to be negotiated with the 27 member countries. The European Commission is therefore sending us a strong signal that the hourly wage of more than one deliverer in two is lower than the net minimum wage of the country in which it lives. Access to employee status would enable them to earn a better living and, as the Commission says, would also give them access to paid leave, health insurance, indemnified sick leave, the right to unemployment and pension. Minister, have you ever analysed this judgment? What do you intend to do to guarantee these exploited workers, who are faced with immense legal uncertainty, a clear working framework and social rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u10	Madam President, Minister, that is what remains of the bicycle couriers after the court ruling yesterday in the Deliveroo case. Vulnerable, because false self-employment can continue, with all the abuses associated with it. Uncertain, because this verdict contradicts the ruling that fell in the Uber case a few weeks ago. Uber drivers must disappear from the street, but minors are still allowed to provide meals. This is possible because judges base themselves on laws that are a rattle of measures. And, of course, large multinationals will always take advantage of the gaps in that legislation. It is up to the judge to point this out, but it is up to us, colleagues, to close those gaps in the legislation. Mr Minister, as long as we do not amend this legislation, this will continue to be unjust. Bicycle couriers will continue to work without fair pay nor social protection. Looking away any longer is not an option, the court won't solve it for us. The European Commission is also aware of this, which states that all bogus self-employed workers must now become full-time workers. Also Vooruit draws a line here. Laws that don't protect people are laws that need to be adapted. No one in this country can be exploited, not even a bike messenger. The collaborative economy only works if there are laws protecting platform workers. We already have a legislative proposal ready and will submit it to bring it to the 21st century. Can you tell me, Minister, what are your plans for yesterday's court ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u11	Minister, our society is evolving, as are the ways of working. Innovation is essential to meet workers' expectations. Working in a platform responds to some of them for some of them. Innovate: Yes! To be exploited: no! This need for freedom is being exploited by companies. This platform requires a lot, but offers very little: there is no question of an employment contract - no unemployment - nor of an insurance against accidents at work - which, however, concerns many delivery companies. The latter are not wage earners. Are they independent? Given their income - we talk about five euros the race - it is impossible for them to gain access to this status. They don't have social protection, and they tell us. It is neither fair nor sustainable to maintain such gaps in labour law. The Labour Auditorate, the unions and the ONSS have gone to court to have it recognized as wage contracts. The Labour Court has rendered an amazing judgment, considering that Deliveroo's couriers are not employees and that they do not work in the collaborative economy, why they should be re-qualified as independent. We take note of that! For environmentalists, this judgment requires a clear and rapid political response. We must provide workers with a legally sound working environment, as well as genuine social protection. By chance of the timetable, the European Commission is now releasing a proposal for a directive at the heart of which we find the presumption of the existence of an employment contract. Minister, the urgency is real. What is your actual status in the evaluation work? What direction are you going to take? When will you come and present your solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Cornet. The time has come for the Deputy Prime Minister to respond. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on an important subject which we have already dealt with on numerous occasions in plenary and in committee. The question of the working conditions and protection of these workers within the framework of the platform economy is quite normal and legitimate. Like you, I think we need to take into account the changes in the world, the way in which the world of work changes, has changed and will change again in the coming years, which does not mean that we need to review the social protections and the rights of workers downwards. The Brussels Labour Court delivered its judgment yesterday on the case brought by the Labour Court against the delivery company Deliveroo. On the basis of the current regulations and in the light of the circumstances of the present case, of the specific case of these delivery agents employed by the company, the Labour Court held at first instance that the delivery agents should be regarded as self-employed and not as wage-earners. He also concluded that these workers should be excluded from the scope of the collaborative economy regime. Some parties have already indicated their intention to appeal this decision. It is their right, of course, and I respect it. You also know that I respect the independence of justice and that I am not used to comment on court decisions. On the other hand, as a minister, I must be able to draw the consequences, and I must confess that this judgment reinforces my firm desire to ensure early and better working conditions and adequate social protection for workers in the platform economy. I fully support the initiatives taken at European level and particularly the initiative taken by the European Commission. I have also, along with some of my European colleagues, signed and sent a letter to the European Commission to ensure that the ambitions contained in this proposal are commensurate with the stakes and the necessary protection of these workers. I have also taken and will take it again in the next few days, my pilgrim's staff, to ensure that this proposal put forward by the Commission is able to cross the path of the Council and Parliament. It is known that discussions at European level often take time. We've just made a major breakthrough with the minimum wage. I hope that as quickly as we can on the minimum wage, we can move forward at European level. Of course, we cannot stand by and wait for a European framework, even if I call it with all my wishes and do everything I can to make it happen as soon as possible. That is why, pursuant to the government agreement, I have the will to come back quickly to you with concrete proposals. One of these proposals is to be subject to the Workers' Compensation Act. It is known that bicycle delivery is now 15 times more likely than any other worker in this country to have an accident at work. This is unacceptable. We must ensure that they are properly framed and protected. Another proposal, inspired by Europe, would create a presumption of wage earners with a reversal of the burden of proof. It would therefore be up to the employer to prove that there is no contract of employment, that we are not in a classic relationship of employer and employee but in an independent framework or that of the cooperative economy for small part. It is essential that the reform of the law on the nature of the employment relationship is now under way. It is clear that the general criteria of this law are no longer adapted to today's world of work and how it will evolve further. The rights of vulnerable workers in the platform economy and the legal certainty of their status should no longer be the victims of any further delay. The intention is clearly to complete the consultation, initiated a few months ago, by the end of the year and to come to the government with concrete proposals that will be inspired by the returns on the ground and the initiatives taken at European level, which we fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. Firstly, I am not naive about the nature of the multinationals we are talking about, but their services are practical. A lot of people use them. It's part of the future. The right balance must be struck to ensure that these companies remain and that workers' rights are fully respected. I say that because, in some cases, they have been so regulated that they are gone and jobs have therefore been abolished. The difference between these companies and their workers must be made; that is what you are doing. Secondly, I have a reflection on the consumers we are all. In the same way that we can question ourselves when we find t-shirts at 3 or 5 euros, when some of us take advantage of meals delivered by a platform for almost nothing, it must question them. The consumer also has a role to play. Tomorrow, when we have managed to regulate the sector and we will all have to pay for these deliveries a little more expensive, let us agree that it is the labour market that applies, that the consumer has his responsibility and that he can choose the most virtuous companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. A few weeks ago, I was already here to defend these couriers, those workers who have been waiting for the reality of their work to be taken into account for a long time. It is high time to act. I'm counting on you to be ambitious. I already hear a few commitments on your part to combat this scourge of the uberization of our world of work, for the benefit of workers and our States. Giving delivery agents a real status is to guarantee them a better wage and respect for social rights. In addition, it is to allow the State to collect social contributions and taxes from these platforms. The Commission estimates that this could now amount to up to EUR 4 billion per year. That's not negligible, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u16	Mr Minister, as you know, I have a legislative proposal that introduces the presumption of worker status. So if there is a willingness, it can be approved quickly in Parliament. However, there are still more gaps in the legislation. There are also effective gaps in the tax sharing economy. Moreover, the more complex the legislation is, the easier it will be for the large multinationals to take advantage of it. If we want to guide the changes in society, we must start from clear principles. Do we think it's acceptable for children to work here for such platforms? No. Do we think it is acceptable that people should work without social protection? Here too, the answer is no. Do we think it's acceptable that people are out of income security? That too is unacceptable. However, this is done by the complex legislation. We believe that the law needs to be amended to allow fair work for platform employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your rather proactive response. In particular, I would like to point out your willingness to quickly provide more protection and to support the presumption of wage-earning which is really very important. I congratulate you. A flat, however, at the level of consultation, which must be done more than by a platform. This legal instability affects platform workers. You have to take your responsibilities because this judgment requires that a solution be found quickly. The innovation I was talking about must bring more rights and represent social progress, otherwise it will just be a license to exploit and a turn back. We have to act. Some things are possible. They exist in other countries. Other things are to be created. These workers must be employed. You said it and I agree with you, they must be protected. We have to legislate, and quickly. Ecolo-Groen supports you, encourages you and, above all, asks you to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in the midst of this fourth corona wave, one would almost forget that life is becoming more expensive. In November, inflation rose to 5.64 %, which is largely explained by the rising energy prices that hit people deep in the wallet, but also by rising commodity prices, shortages, import dependency and a post-corona overheated economy in which supply cannot follow demand. We have not yet seen the latter, because at the moment not all the price increases are being passed on to the consumer. Since I'm concerned about our people's purchasing power, I've been interrupting you six months ago to pull the alarm. You assured me that inflation would be capped at just 1.6 % this year, but I knew at that time that you didn't really take the problem seriously. Not only am I apparently concerned, Professor Stijn Baert also warns of a wage price spiral. Earlier this week, you again indicated that you are not concerned about the purchasing power of our people because you do not seem to be impressed by inflation moving towards 6%. However, there are many possibilities to curb inflation. I am thinking of a reduction in the burden on gross wages or a reduction in VAT on energy. Minister, what will you do to protect the purchasing power of our people? How will you ensure that people's savings don't go up in smoke? Do you not fear a spiral in which rising wages will once again result in rising prices? When will you finally send a powerful signal to the outside world?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u19	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, current energy prices are causing inflation to rise to levels that are no longer commonplace at this time. I remember an inflation rate of 13%, but that was in the 1980s. I thought you were born by then. In the long term, we fear an increase in interest rates. I interviewed the Prime Minister about 7 months ago about what will be done with the debt. In the short term, of course, we are afraid because we read in the newspaper that people want to go to index jumps and try to neutralize inflation, while people need to maintain their purchasing power right now, because current energy prices have caused a slight panic. Again, in the light of eternity this is relative, but it hurts, and we feel it. As you know, my colleague Nathalie Muylle, who was your predecessor in the Department of Work, has repeatedly interviewed you about the wage standard law in the past. That wage standard law absolutely wanted to maintain CD&V in order to maintain our competitiveness. That has been our party's position all along. But today we are concerned because a coalition partner has launched ideas on the index that are not immediately reassuring. Let me just say I'm shocked. I would like to know whether you, like us, are committed to the full enforcement of the wage standard law and to the index mechanism that exists today and also to...?(micro is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u20	Minister, sincerely, I would not like to be in your place right now. And I'm not talking about the chair you're sitting on, but about your dual function. As Minister of Employment, you defend the workers and that is a good thing. We, too, defend the work. It is said and repeated: work is a source of emancipation and it is the best bulwark against poverty. But you are also the Minister of Economy and it must be noted that, with the health crisis, our businesses have not been spared. You helped them with the many support measures. Yet today they are facing a new problem: galloping inflation. On the one hand, you have the trade union demands for a reform of the 1996 law and a wage increase to ensure the purchasing power of workers, in general, in the face of the rise of all basic necessities but, above all, in the face of the rise in energy prices. On the other hand, the employer bank is demanding strong measures to stop inflation. With no change in policy, the impact on the competitiveness of our companies will be disastrous and we risk losing tens of thousands of jobs. Minister for Economy and Employment, my questions are simple. First, what proposals do you intend to submit to your government partners to lower prices and limit inflation? Secondly, what ideas do you propose to your partners in order to avoid a crisis of competitiveness of our companies and save employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u21	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will have heard everything from the employers! Today, on the pretext that the minimum wage will finally rise, while it had not moved since 2008, the Belgian Federation of Enterprises (FEB) and the Voka are calling for an index jump and are worried because the wages would become, they say, impayable. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the question to be asked today is this: who is really worried? With inflation at today's level, rising the price of the housewife's basket, the price of energy, I think the workers are wondering how they're going to finish their end of the month, how they're going to pay their bills - energy bills, children's crèche, etc. Two weeks ago, following an investigation, Solidaris indicated that in Wallonia and Brussels, one in two people were postponing health care for financial reasons. But today the bosses are worried and wonder what impact the increase in the minimum wage will have on the competitiveness of our companies! They applauded under the previous legislature the index jump decided in 2015. They welcomed the reform of the 1996 law on wage standards, on the competitiveness of enterprises, which provides even more wage moderation and prevents proper wage developments. Today, we believe that, on the contrary, it is necessary to maintain this independent and essential mechanism for indexing wages, pensions and social benefits. You have already taken a position in the press, Mr Deputy Prime Minister – we congratulate you – by refusing an index jump. We ask you to confirm this here in Parliament. This is very important to us and we hope that the government will refuse any automatic removal of indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u22	Life is getting more expensive. No one can go around that anymore. A lot of working people feel that at the end of the month. Many families no longer wonder if they can save anything this month, but wonder if they'll make it to the end of the month. People are threatening to go under, and in our country, we are not abandoning those people. We'll make sure they don't go under. We ensure that people's purchasing power is preserved, without having to be renegotiated or fought out each time. As the price of onions, shampoo or electricity rises, wages rise. This is an important cornerstone of our welfare state and of social peace. We will protect it and we will continue to protect it. Today, employers are asking to give up this protection temporarily and to organise an index jump, so that wages do not adjust to the increasing lifespan. The cause of more expensive life is rapidly rising inflation. If inflation is the cause, let us work on inflation. There are instruments to combat inflation. The government is working on the reduction of the electricity bill. Let that be a source of inspiration for additional initiatives. Let it be clear: it is the invoices that have to go down, not wages. A collective impoverishment of the population has never advanced our society. With the Greens in government, there will never be an index jump. I'm assuming the same goes for the reds in the government. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u23	Minister, when the present purple-green government took office, you swore an expensive oath: the labour market would be thoroughly reformed. Two years later, that good intention was buried deep underground somewhere for a long time. You'll make people poorer today and day after day. Every day you do nothing, people in this country literally see their hard-earned savings evaporate. In a year's time, Belgian savers have already lost 20 billion euros in purchasing power. That is also your responsibility. It is the high burden on labour, but also, of course, the high inflation combined with automatic wage indexation in this country, which means that wages, but also the prices that the man in the street has to pay in our country, are rising much stronger and much faster than in our neighbouring countries. Moreover, the shortage of labour in our labour market creates additional upward pressure on our wages. The only sustainable response to these challenges is a thorough, forward-looking labour market reform that helps more people to work. What does the Croo government do? The hopelessly divided government-De Croo is being held hostage by employers and employees, who are harder than ever to put the heels in the sand, one with an index jump and the other with the release of the wage standard. It's a completely pointless spectacle. Nevertheless, you sit there and look at it like a rabbit at a light box. Minister, doing nothing is also a choice. It's a nasty choice that makes the people in this country hopelessly impoverished. Stop that at last. So I have two questions for you. Firstly, when will you finally reform the labour market so that people do not see their jobs disappear again abroad? Secondly, when will you thoroughly reform the labour market so that people no longer see their hard-earned savings melt away like snow before the sun?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, remarks and comparisons, some of which are surprising. Let us be clear that this government did not stand up to the difficulties of the world of work and economics. I fully assume the double hat with pleasure, conviction and commitment, Mr Bombled. I do not see my status as a difficult status for a large part of the population who are experiencing complicated times. We didn't stand by. At the heart of the crisis, we have taken a series of measures to support our economy, our world of work. As we see today, the economic recovery is stronger than we expected a few months ago. But there are consequences for the increase in a series of prices or for the availability of a series of raw materials. Of course, this is of concern to us and we will not stand by, especially in view of the increase in energy prices. I would like to recall what has already been done by this government with regard to energy to ensure that the bill for a large part of the population is preserved to the maximum. The Gas and Electricity Fund is being refinanced for an amount of EUR 16 million. Social tariffs for electricity and gas shall be extended until the first quarter of 2022. 1 million families receive a premium of 80 euros. Is that nothing? No! We took our share of responsibility and acted as quickly as possible by taking supportive measures to meet the rising cost of energy. We have also considered combating abuses and certain questionable practices of certain energy suppliers. We intervened to reduce the cost of moving from a variable contract to a fixed contract and to ensure that the advance payment paid best corresponds to the final invoice. These are the actions that this government has taken to help the most fragile. Mr Geens, I could still quote the tax shift proposed by excellent Minister Vincent Van Peteghem, which aims to restore purchasing power to workers in this country. I naturally support Minister Van Peteghem's proposal. Mr Van Lommel, you said that I was not concerned about inflation figures. Of course I do! But I am looking at them with the greatest degree of complacency and I am basing myself on the forecasts made by a number of recognized organizations, the last of which was the Federal Office of the Plan which revised its forecasts for inflation on December 7. Finally, according to the Federal Office of the Plan, inflation is expected to decline gradually from March 2022, particularly as a result of lower energy prices. So, in 2022, inflation should gradually return to normal. I cherish this hope with all my wishes and hope that these forecasts from the Federal Planning Office will prove to be correct. In any event, it is important to keep to the forecasts of the bodies recognized and whose competence and excellence in this field are proven. Finally, I would like to return to one important element: the automatic wage indexation mechanism that exists in our country. This mechanism is owed to one of my most distinguished predecessors, Minister Jozef Wauters. When the cost of living increases, the automatic indexation also increases employees' wages in our country. In this way, we ensure that workers are not confronted with a fall in their purchasing power when prices rise. Today prices are rising sharply, mainly due to high energy prices. Automatic indexation is therefore an indispensable mechanism for the protection of workers. Really, I'm saying it again here, to be very clear. You interrogated me, lead Vanbesien. It is clear that with the socialists in this government – and I look forward to hearing the support of the Greens – it is unthinkable for us to have an index jump. Workers in this country still pay a previous index jump. Clearly, an index jump will be without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u25	Minister, all around the world the alarm bells go off, except in Belgium. Everywhere there is a fear of permanent inflation, except in Belgium. Meanwhile, you sit back and watch mercilessly as our people are impoverished. With an automatic wage indexing alone you will not get there. I refuse to accept that you do nothing structural to protect the purchasing power of our people. I refuse to accept that you're just gonna blow up the savings that our people have worked so hard for. I refuse to accept that you allow people to die in the cold because of their high energy bills. Soon don't tell me you didn't know all about it. You should be ashamed, as a socialist minister. You are unworthy of the position of Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your reassuring reply. I would also like to reassure you that wages are also rising in Germany and that the minimum wage will be increased in the Netherlands. Furthermore, the European Central Bank and the National Bank believe that we will reach 2.2 % inflation by 2022, which is much lower. My party, as has been said, is very attached to the wage standard law. We want to avoid a race to the bottom in Europe in terms of wage competition. That cannot be the intention. We believe that the minimum wage should be set at European level. Finally, I had already noticed that several gifted Deputy Prime Ministers were born at the beginning of the second oil crisis. I'm not just talking about you, I'm talking about Minister Van Peteghem. You're about the same age and you share each other's ideas. I heard you talking about the tax shift. I also thought I heard you say that you are in favour of the reverse cliquet system, but I'm not sure I heard that right (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u27	[[Minister, I heard your answers.]] I thank you even if they leave me a little on my hunger. Indeed, the middle class cannot be forgotten. I sincerely invite you to act proactively but also to be creative, to think out of the box and in compliance with the 1996 law. Perhaps you should take an example of what the Di Rupo government – yes, I say Di Rupo – did at the time under the impetus of its socialist ministers of economics and employment, namely to review the basket of the housewife. It's a lead to explore, but maybe there are others. In any case, the situation cannot be allowed to deteriorate, especially if an employment rate of 80% is to be reached. Failure to act would not be a good thing for both workers and businesses. We will support you in all your steps that will go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think what goes without saying sometimes goes much better by saying it. Indexing is not a small Christmas gift that you slide like this under the tree. It is really an essential social protection mechanism for all households in this country. It must also be said that it is only a correction, an adaptation of household incomes to changes in the cost of living. In fact, the government's ambition is greater than that. It is to improve purchasing power, which has been done. You called him back and I'm not going to say it again. I will end by saying that the support of purchasing power is not contradictory with the support of companies. Supporting people's purchasing power is also helping consumers and businesses with a stimulus plan and investments. This is how the government intends to support the competitiveness of our businesses. As far as automatic indexing is concerned, we have heard you and we are sure of your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. Six months ago, there was a demand for workers to relax the wage standard law. Companies that had been well-farmed were asked to apply a higher wage increase than 0.4% on top of the index. All employers' organisations stood on their backs and demanded indignantly the strict application of the law. Today it is the employers who are asking for an exception. Despite the law, they do not want wages to rise according to the index. It is therefore no surprise that there is little enthusiasm to respond to that question today. Automatic wage indexation is a good and fair principle. In fact, it works in both directions, because I remember that my wages went down a decade or so ago because of a negative index adjustment in a period of deflation. It therefore protects not only the workers but also the employers. It's a principle that we always...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u30	So, Minister, all you will do is spend money that has been gone for a long time. It is difficult to call that a sustainable solution. However, you could seize the opportunity to show solidarity with the man on the street, reform the labour market and reduce the burden on wages and labour costs. The difference between you and us is that we can make sure that whoever works, saves and takes action in this country is making progress instead of impoverishing it, whereas the Croo government does not. Apparently, the Croo Government is only seeking to make as many people as possible dependent on a benefit that they can hardly survive. Worst of all, it's not out of power, it's out of unwillingness. You have a crushing responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u31	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth corona wave puts pressure on everyone and every sector. We are constantly hearing in the media that schools, childcare, care centres, but also companies are suffering from very high staff shortages, which sometimes means closing down entire departments and slowing down production. No one is talking about the impact on the results of companies and on their future investment potential that we will certainly need. I, too, as an entrepreneur, have to deal with shortages on a daily basis. Staff dropout causes additional stress in the company every day. The nerves are tense and colleagues have to take over each other's work in order to continue serving our customers in these times. That corona failure is on top of the cramped labour market that we have been dealing with for a long time. Because of a record number of vacancies we are really in trouble. Vacancies are not filled out, while there are still many inactives. We really need to focus on activating the inactive. That's what this government's policy statement says, which is fantastic. More people need to be escorted out of the inactivity and unemployed people need to be able to fill out the open jobs. The government has taken initiatives, such as the jobseekers lead to jobs in other regions. That is very important, because it is impossible for unemployment rates in Hainaut and Brussels to peak while in Flemish Brabant and South West Flanders people are begging for labour. There is also a need for regional incentives for bottlenecks, an urgent need to re-establish long-term incapacity for work and a need for rapid and flexible fill-in of deficits. In addition to the structural reforms that we are waiting for, what are your action points to resolve these additional deficits in the short term, so that the companies and the workers who are currently working feel strengthened? How will you solve the acute problems of companies that see a lot of employees (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Verhelst, finding solutions to the problem of the bottleneck professions is one of the government's priorities. Eurostat data show that the number of vacancies outstanding in our country in the second quarter of 2021 was 4.2 %, while the euro area is on average only 3.2 %. Belgium therefore has the highest percentage in the euro area after the Czech Republic. The problem of bottlenecks is therefore a major challenge, but at the same time it is also an opportunity to achieve our target of an employment rate of 80% by 2030. In response to the situation, in the first transition plan, we have taken a large number of measures to improve the bottleneck professions and the mobility of workers. The time is too short to go over this in detail, but know that I am doing everything I can to implement these measures quickly. The problem of the bottleneck professions is also important for the Länder. As you know, they are competent for the follow-up, guidance and activation of job seekers. That is why I work closely with my colleagues in the Länder. Next week an inter-ministerial conference will be organised on the bottleneck professions. I hope that this conference will lead to the creation of an inter-federal platform to formulate proposals that can resolve the deficit through evidence-based policies. As part of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, I would like to set up a political working group to ensure the proper follow-up and implementation of the proposals (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u33	You are aware, Minister, that labour shortages are really slowing down our businesses. It also slows down our prosperity, and this is a devastating evolution for everyone. We must first pay attention to activation. There is no point in letting people walk from one job to another. We must first look at those who are not yet active, because the only way to raise the employment rate is to get inactive people to work. This is in line with policy decisions. So we really need to start motivating and guiding people towards a wage that pays rather than getting used to or relying on a benefit. Nor will we get there by leaving balloons on higher wages, as if Belgium were an island that should not be affected by competition abroad and competitiveness. In addition, there is the threat of inflation, which has already been mentioned here. Rest assured, wages rise every day in these market conditions. As an entrepreneur, I feel it. Whether this is healthy in the long term, however, I doubt, unless the burden on labour falls. This requires as many people as possible to carry these burdens together. So I'm really calling for...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dermagne, we are obviously far from what Minister Vandenbroucke announced in the first half of the year when he promised a return to normal life after 1 October. It is also clear that the government's planned end of aid from 31 December will not take place, as it will have to be extended due to the fourth wave, health measures and their impact on several sectors. I am thinking in particular of the event and the Horeca. You know that, since you follow the file and keep in touch with the federations. From the point of view of Horeca, a particularly sensitive point is the issue of end-of-year premiums, which involves hundreds of millions of euros, while the Guarantee Fund for this activity is empty. In the past, with my colleague Muylle, we had been careful to support the Horeca. Where are we now, Minister? It is essential that you can inform us of this. Another aspect will have to be extended beyond 31 December, from our point of view and probably also from yours: the extension of temporary unemployment, which we hope will continue until 31 March. In addition, you exercise cotutelle on the ONSS. I am shocked to see that several businesses, restaurants and small independents have dropped their turnover by almost 70%, to the point that some of them have to close, because ONSS is assigning them to bankruptcy. Under the authority of the previous Prime Minister, we had a moratorium on bankruptcies in place with Mr Geens. I would like to hear your opinion today on an extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u35	Madam President, honourable Member, I thank you for your various questions and to support the government's action in support of sectors that are directly or indirectly affected by the health crisis and/or the health measures and restrictions on activities decided by the Consultation Committee. Like you, I have always said that as soon as public authorities limit economic activity and impact the income of employees and self-employed through their decisions, they must also intervene and compensate as much as possible for these losses of activity and income. That is what we have done so far. Like you, I would have hoped that the support measures would no longer be necessary beyond 31 December this year, but like you, unfortunately I must note that they will still be indispensable. It is therefore essential that the federal and regional governments assist sectors, workers, entrepreneurs with the extension of measures, or even with the intervention of new measures that are probably more targeted than in the past, taking into account the realities of the various sectors. You mentioned the event and the Horeca. I'm thinking about it, too. I support the requests and have tabled a series of general proposals on the government table, such as the extension of temporary unemployment or the extension of the bridge law and the double bridge law also defended by our colleague David Clarinval. In addition, I have tabled more targeted proposals relating to end-of-year premiums in the Horeca sector, the assimilation of leave days and support measures for the various sectors. I agree with you, honourable Member, that our public institutions, whatever they may be, must also pay attention to the difficult and even dramatic situation of certain companies and entrepreneurs. I don't know if we need to talk about a moratorium on bankruptcies, but at least we need to have an administrative practice that takes their situation into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. I feel you are mobilized and I would like to tell you that the MR Group is at your side to accompany the measures that we need to see quickly appear concretely to support these sectors that create employment and wealth, as we saw in the survey produced by the National Bank of Belgium and the FEB. You're talking about a recovery in economic growth, but when it comes to events, horeca, retail, these sectors are performing worse than in 2019. I'm talking about an investigation that came out before the last wave. I hear what you say about retaining these costs...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u37	Thank you for respecting the time allotted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u38	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, the United States announced on 6 December that it would not send a political representative to Beijing. They were quickly followed by Canada, Australia, Great Britain, and soon I think New Zealand, arguing that there was an increase in human rights violations in China, especially in Xinjiang. We have not heard the Europeans, a little as usual, putting their heads in the sand. I would therefore like to know what your position was with regard to this diplomatic boycott. I must confess that I would find it indecent that Europe is going there as if nothing were happening. Today, Madam President, we are commemorating genocide. In very strong words, our Speaker recalled the duty of memory and also the duty of prevention. Our assembly voted by a large majority a resolution indicating that there was a risk of genocide in Xinjiang. And instead of lifting its foot in a way on human rights violations, Beijing, on the contrary, shoves the nail. It is known that the repression in Hong Kong, and in Xinjiang, is accentuated by military pressure on Taiwan and even attacks athletes and athletes, since tennis player Peng Shuai is under house arrest. So I would have wanted to know what your position was in relation to that. What are the possible pressures on your government? We know that Beijing is not under pressure. Was there an invitation? Is there cooperation with the federated entities to determine a single attitude on the part of all Belgian governments? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u39	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, as you said, the United States has announced its intention to practice a diplomatic boycott at the Olympic Winter Games in China. The White House motivated its decision as a response to the human rights situation in China, in particular against the Uighur population in Xinjiang. Other countries have announced their diplomatic boycott. New Zealand also announced that it would not send political representation, however, citing the coronavirus pandemic as a reason for decision. As far as Belgium is concerned, we do not usually send a political delegation to the Olympic Winter Games. The question of sending such a delegation therefore did not arise. Nevertheless, this item will be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday in various points. I think that the aim, certainly motivated by France, will be to have a European reflection on this. You must have seen the different ads that have been made so far. It is true that the Olympic Games are primarily a sporting event; nevertheless, our country has serious concerns about human rights in China. I recall the sanctions that were imposed on China in March 2021 under the EU's global human rights sanctions regime in response to serious human rights violations against the Uighur population. If you didn't know, our country supported their extension on December 6. We continue to urge the Chinese authorities to respect human rights, fundamental freedoms in a sustained manner in all our contacts, even at the highest level. I remind you that I did it myself during my only interview with my counterpart a few months ago. The Prime Minister also informed his counterpart Li Keqiang on 7 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u40	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer, which I think is quite clear, even if you did not say what your position would be at the European Council on a possible European political representation at the Beijing Olympic Games. Beijing seems to be worried that this event would be politicized. But China itself has politicized it, particularly through its attitude towards its own athletes, and also through what it has said, namely that if we did not go to Beijing, we would pay the price. This is a relatively aggressive political attitude. We must not be naive: these Olympic Winter Games are a manifestation of power, but also of authoritarianism on the part of Beijing. Europe must send an important political signal to Beijing, stating that we are not naive and that European political representation at the Games is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u41	Minister, EUR 500, that was the fine faced by many drivers of thousands of non-profit organisations in the last two weeks. That 500 euros is quite a bite from the budget of a small non-profit association. They were fined for not having entered their so-called 'final beneficiaries' in the UBO register (Ultimate Beneficial Owners). That UBO register has been introduced in Belgium under European rules and provides for an additional reporting obligation. For example, non-profit organisations should enter their daily directors in that register. It is, of course, important that this is done in a good way. The non-profit organisations have had the opportunity to do so, but there is no denying that in the last two years the same non-profit organisations have been confronted with the corona crisis: activities have been canceled, the operation has almost literally been shut down. In addition, many volunteers are active as drivers in these non-profit organisations and they are doing their utmost to be okay with the different rules. They have no intention at all of breaking certain rules. Vzw's and associations are the beating heart of our neighborhoods, villages and cities. In the corona crisis, they are just providing that much-needed connection between the people. Mr Minister, in view of the covid crisis and the fact that these non-profit organisations are faced with such a UBO fine for the first time, do you see any possibility of making a contribution to the non-profit organisations that want to take up their duties quickly and quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u42	The importance of the UBO register cannot, of course, be underestimated. It is a very important part of our fight against money laundering. It is also part of the fight against the financing of criminal organisations and terrorism. We have set up a very clear and proactive communication in recent months so that anyone who had to meet those conditions could meet the reporting obligations. In April, we also announced that the planned sanctions would be applied from 1 September 2021. Cooperation with the IAA has also contributed to this. It is clear that my administration is open to the same cooperation with the associations, as requested today. Our proactive communication was successful. 99.5% of all companies comply with the UBO registration requirement. Today, however, there are 3,500 entities that have not yet made any UBO registration. However, they were notified three times, the first time digitally, then a reminder by letter for the first time and finally a second letter stating the planned legal fine. It is, of course, one of my absolute objectives to ensure that everyone is treated in the same way by my services. This creates justice, which also creates legal certainty. The fact that several small non-profit organisations have reacted surprised after these months of communication is, of course, very unfortunate. I therefore assume that they did not act out of malice. I have therefore also asked my administration to postpone the application of the fines once until January next year. In the meantime, the registered non-profit organisations can also fulfil their obligations. In this way we hope to give that last 0.5% of the entities the chance (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u43	Minister, I agree perfectly with the solution you have proposed. On the one hand, the importance of the registration of the various final beneficiaries in the register is stressed, but on the other hand, those who could not yet do so still have the opportunity to register. In addition, I would also like to call on you to continue working on the user-friendliness of the UBO register by focusing on the only once principle. That can only be a win-win, especially for the drivers and volunteers who give the best of themselves every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u44	Madam Chair, Minister, I was present last Tuesday at the demonstration of 4,500 angry caregivers. I listened to what they had to say, and I rarely felt such a deep anger at a government minister. They were all united, vaccinated or not vaccinated, the public and private sectors, the old and the younger. They said: "Raoul, go tell this minister that he must listen to us. We're angry because we're disrespectful. We gave everything during the first wave. We gave everything during the second wave. We gave everything during the third wave. We will now give everything for the fourth wave. And what does the Minister of Health say? He says, "Not vaccinated buiten, April 1, 2022, fired." That is not right, Minister! You have to listen to these people. They're the ones leading the fight on the front. These people are asking me how it's possible that they don't have a salary up to the level. Some testified that they would not have one more euro. Minister, this is not right! Others told me: "How is it possible that this government will continue to want us to work until the age of 67? We're tired of working. We have to carry patients. We are flexible, etc." As for the means provided, of course, the PTB led the fight for the White Blouse Fund, but that is not enough. To meet this standard of supervision of eight patients per nurse, it would take three to four times more. You know that. So, minister, stop taking that moralizing tone to those people who are on the ground! They have a message for you. I saw on the spot this solidarity they had between them, Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia. All feel this injustice of not being respected by this government. Minister, with your decision to put 20,000 nurses at the door on April 1, 2022, how will you guarantee that the beds will be staffed? You can't!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u45	Mr. Hedebouw, hospital care professionals are suffering. What if we really want to help them? First, do everything we can to combat the virus, even if it involves difficult measures. Therefore, if you want to shorten suffering in hospitals, you must support the need for such measures, even if we can discuss it in detail. Secondly, it is important to continue to invest in care. We invest 400 million in additional commitments, 600 million in wages and working conditions. Moreover, I urge the social partners to come back to us as soon as possible with concrete proposals on working conditions. In any case, you won't hear me say that all the problems are solved. Far from it. I know it's hard to find the right people. Furthermore, the new classification of functions, drawn up by the social partners, is not in favour of a series of specialised nurses. I know that, too. That's why I'm working on a concrete solution for these caregivers. Thirdly, and independently of the first two points, the fact that anyone working in care should be vaccinated seems to me an obvious duty for the protection of the patients they have in charge, for continuity of care and for solidarity with patients and colleagues. The government has therefore drawn up a proposal to this end, with a step-by-step approach. This proposal has been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and to the social partners, and we are, of course, awaiting these opinions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u46	Minister, you have exceeded your speaking time. I propose to give you one more minute to get to the end of the reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u47	Madam President, I would like to put another question to Mr Hedebouw. Mr Hedebouw, suppose that one day vaccination will become a general obligation for the whole population, which many parties are in favour of. Do you think, in that assumption, that someone who is at the bed of sick people, but has not been vaccinated, can continue to do his job on that sick bed? If vaccination becomes a general obligation, do you think people can still afford not to take that basic precaution? Do you think that's normal? I don't. I don't think anyone can always just do what they want to do. Or do you think that we should never and nowhere impose a general obligation to that effect? You must also answer these questions clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u48	Minister, I asked you a question! What are you going to do if you put these people out on April 1st? You have no answer! That's what these 4,500 protesters say. They tell you that they are already too little! I'm not against vaccination. The question is how you're going to convince people. You say the solution is to fight the virus. But who did the failure come from? He's from your house! You're not going to say it's because of the unvaccinated! You polarized the population by saying it was the non-vaccinated pandemic. You've screwed up completely, scientifically! You can crash, it's no big deal, but be humble! It's about humility. Come here and admit you were wrong. Explain that you were wrong when you indicated that everything would have been solved with two shots. All the healthcare professionals in the hospitals feel it: our government fails. They do not want repression, they call for help. Help them. Minister, that is not a theatre. That's the truth in the workplace. (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u49	Mr Minister, the test strategy was reviewed because the pressure on primary care was far too high. Well, that's exactly what happened. Now, however, we are dealing with the problems in the residential care centres. That's where isolation is the rule after a resident has a high-risk contact and a PCR test doesn't arrive until the fifth day. The result must then be postponed for two or three days. So these people are back in home isolation for eight days, that is, in their little room. They see very few people there. This is very difficult to explain to elderly people, sometimes even demented people, who are still afraid since the previous isolation because they have seen their well-being affected. For the staff, the rule, as for all vaccinees, is four days' absence, at best. However, the residential care centres are already facing 6% of staff loss due to high-risk contacts. Mr Minister, could you have the task force check whether it is possible for residential care centres to keep people in their rooms for less time in a safe manner? For example, can we work with a hallway where they still have some room for manoeuvre? Do the antigen rapid tests have a place in that? After all, there are long waiting times for PCR tests. Will the use of volunteers in commercial centres be possible in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u50	Minister, testing policy is particularly complicated for our patients. First, after high risk contact, a PCR test was performed on day 1 and on day 7 again. Then it had to be on day 1 and day 5. Now it has to be about on day 5. It's very hard to follow. One can call it a flipflop policy, one can call it a yo-yo policy, but it simply cannot be explained anymore. There is another problem, namely the difference between a PCR test and an antigen test. When they receive a code for a PCR test that they have to go to their GP, it is difficult for patients to know that it is not possible to contact the pharmacy. When the labs are full and the general practitioners no longer have an appointment, those patients end up with the pharmacist. Often they get an antigen test and they don't get a refund. If they're not sick and they just have to quarantine, they won't get a recovery certificate. It could be easier. Are you willing to investigate that? Then I'll get to the residential care centers. It is already extremely difficult there, the workload is very high. When staff have had high-risk contact, they must be quarantined. Can this quarantine not be covered by rapid antigen tests, which ensure that those people can be present on the work floor? Minister, I am really sorry that I have to come up with questions and suggestions almost a week after week. I'm gonna make one more suggestion. This question came from Antwerp and is about the third prick. There are studies that say it can be faster within 12 weeks. Will you join us on the train of providence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rules on testing and quarantine are laid down at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, together with colleagues from the Länder. Their operationalisation is carried out in the Inter-Federal Committee for Testing and Tracing. The Länder, in Flanders, the Flemish government, are responsible for their application. However, I can say something about the residential care centres. The general rule is that there is an exception for staff of residential care centres for quarantine when it comes to people who have no symptoms and who have been vaccinated. Today it is also true that the exception to the quarantine, which is a general exception for staff in the residential care centres, is subject to the condition that one cannot live under one roof with someone who has covid. This operationalisation is not my competence, but I can inform you that the Flemish Agency for Health and Care is reviewing it just today, to see if it can be made even more flexible, for the sake of continuity of care. There is therefore a general deviation from the quarantine requirement for the vaccinated care personnel that is not symptomatic. As far as the testing strategy itself is concerned, what you call smooth policy is defined together with representatives of the Flemish Government, the French-speaking Community and so on. However, I would like to point out that we are still successful with the tools that we provide, without saying that they are delicious. You know that we want to relieve the general practitioners, and indeed the pharmacists, by allowing people to look at their own website to see what to do when they think they are infected or have symptoms. They will then receive a code and will no longer have to go to the general practitioner or the pharmacist, which is no longer applicable. Since that system existed, not so long ago, 305,000 test codes have been requested. At the moment there are 10,000 a day. That means 10,000 times that people don't have to go to the doctor or the pharmacist. I think this is a very great success in the context of this flipflop policy, Mrs Depoorter. Of course, some people don't get along well with that. You told me an anecdote about that. If someone comes to your pharmacy to ask you for some explanation, I think it's normal that you give a little explanation. But fortunately, that's a small minority. Thanks to this system, 305.000 people have now reached a code for a free test without having to bother your colleagues or the general practitioners. I can also say that the other new system, in which people who are infected can give up their own high-risk contacts via the website, is getting going very well. It needs to be used even more, but it's gonna get going. You are right to say that the people who are difficult to deal with are important. These people can use a simple phone number. When one is infected and wants to contact the contact tracing, one chooses 02/2141919. You call that number and you end up with the right people. So we have an eye for that. Mrs Depoorter, we have certainly taken steps. Those are certainly not perfect, it is absolutely complicated to help general practitioners, and in derived order pharmacists, to do the essential work. These steps are now quite successful, but they do require even more publicity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u52	Minister, the fact that staff have to stay at home for four days now is a problem for the continuity of care. What worries me, however, is that the residents of the residential care centres are in isolation for too long. We all know that these people and their families are having a hard time with that. If there's any complaints about that, I'll forward them to you. When I asked whether the use of volunteers in commercial retirement homes is still possible, you did not say no. So I'm assuming you said yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u53	Minister, shamelessness really is the binder of purple, I think. You are here to tell us that everything is going well and that you are achieving great successes. Your predecessor, who didn't even reply to a letter from the residential care centers last March, is coming to defend her now. I don't get it. We are standing here to ensure that we have a clear test policy that will help our patients and help them. We are also standing here to ensure that the roll-out of the third prick will happen quickly. I have made a proposal to reduce the interval to 12 weeks, as is already being done in the UK today. The majority of the people of Antwerp have asked for this. Will you do that? [[Will you beat Omikron to the punch?]] Will you wait again for the slowness of things? Finally, the buddy effect: do something about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u54	Madam Secretary, this morning the newspaper read that, according to a survey conducted by Securex 9 out of 10 people, they are not prepared to work until the age of 67. So that's hardly anyone. The PVDA also says that at 67 years almost every profession is too heavy. The study also confirms what we hear in the field, in the workplace. I am a general practitioner for over 20 years and during my consultations I see floorers with broken knees, painters with inflamed shoulders, cashiers with elbow problems and caregivers who walk under their feet and have a very hard time mentally. Those people complain about high work rhythm; too many people are asked. How is it possible that the government chooses to keep the retirement age at 67 years? Have you heard the signal from those employees? It's not that they don't want to work until they're 67, they can't, they're out. After a long career, people have the right to rest. Before you joined the government, Madam Minister, Mr Di Rupo, Mr Magnette and others said that bringing the retirement age to 65 years was a breaking point for them. Mrs Kitir also underlined this. It was even in the newspaper: the party sp.a of that time would not enter the government unless the retirement age would be fixed again at 65 years. What will you do about the high retirement age? Will you lower it? People can't take it anymore. When do you come up with a retirement plan and what exactly does it say? Will you do anything for the heavy-duty professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u55	The results of the study of Securex are not new. That is why the government is taking action. The current one has invested EUR 1.2 billion in the revaluation of the minimum pension. By 2024, the minimum pension is 1,500 euro net per month. With the current government, we're working on the career. My proposal is clear: a single 42-year career condition for entitlement to early retirement. With the current government, we work with the social partners to provide quality adjustments by sector to keep the career, including its end, workable. With the current government there is a raise for nurses, there is an increase in the minimum wage and 3 million people benefit from a social energy tariff. With the current government, checks are provided to check whether the workers are working in good conditions. With the current government, five days of training are guaranteed for each employee. It is not in words that society can be improved. It is not by spending hundreds of thousands of euros on social media and using simplistic slogans that society is changing. Society is changing by taking responsibility, and that is exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u56	Minister, you have answered me about the minimum pension amount and certain commitments, but, if I understand correctly, with the PS in the government, people are going to take their pension at 67. You're not gonna change that. You answered next to the plate! Indeed, today, what is concrete on the table? Nothing! Heavy job for nurses? Nothing! There's nothing on the table today, minister. Who can claim 42 years of career at 60? Really? How many people? There are only 6,000 out of the 190,000 people who take their pensions every year. How many women are they talking about? Almost none! That is the problem, Madam Minister. Then you're talking about taking your responsibilities within the government, but when you're a left-wing party, you have break points. You said a breakup point was exactly the pension age. You betrayed that promise. That is why people are angry and they are right!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u57	Madam President, Minister, how many variants and changes will we see during the current pandemic? How long are we gonna be stuck with the corona virus? Will the vaccinations continue to protect us? These are questions that people are asking again today, especially now that the Omikron variant has been found in our country. The only way to reassure people is to come up with facts. What do we know? We know that all variants originated in countries where vaccination rates are low: Great Britain in 2020, India later and now South Africa. Again and again, Corona gains strength when it has free play. Let's be very clear. Again and again the threat of corona comes from abroad, but the consequences are palpable here. The vaccine inequality gives mutations free play. Every new aggressive variant is enough to bring us back to our fight against the virus. Parties such as the Flemish Interest and the N-VA create a false contradiction in the debate. We have enough vaccines to vaccinate all Belgians quickly. It's not a story of whether people here protect or protect the people there. Only by vaccination in third countries can we be safe here. Anyone who claims otherwise is playing a political game with human lives. In the meantime, we depend on companies that make more than 1,000 euros per second today for vaccination, whose share prices go through the roof as a new variant is discovered, and who are not interested in a sustainable solution. Madam Secretary, your position is clear. Raise the patents so that we can produce and vaccinate faster, both there and here. Madam Secretary, what will you do to increase the number of vaccines available here and there, both now and in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u58	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, it was clear from the start of this crisis that variants would follow if the virus were given free rein. That's what we're going through today, unfortunately. We won't wait for the next variant after Omikron, will we? If we want to stop this and really want to tackle this crisis, we can only conclude that we need to deal with it radically differently. Besides, we need to be able to talk about anything. We must move towards maximum technology exchange, voluntary if possible, but mandatory if necessary. We just don't have time to argue if we want to beat this pandemic together. Are we there today? No. That is why it is important that we can discuss everything, including a temporary lifting of intellectual property in times of pandemics. In the meantime, however, we have not been idle. Firstly, we know that supply and demand are not well coordinated. Vaccinating worldwide is far too slow and uneven. In the short term, Belgium has committed itself to donating 9 million doses of vaccines. Of these, 5 million have already been delivered. Let me be clear: what we donate will never be at the expense of our national vaccination campaign. Secondly, I am also working on a sustainable solution, namely investing in local production. We therefore support a factory in Senegal that will produce corona vaccines. The more produced there, the less dependent they will be on us. Thirdly, we all know that more vaccines need to be produced. Therefore, I support the development of an alternative vaccine. We know today that vaccines based on mRNA are the most effective. That technology belongs to all of us. mRNA vaccines have the advantage of being easily adaptable to mutations. That is why, on the initiative of the World Health Organisation, we support a hub in South Africa to develop a real alternative. Only by working together and sharing knowledge as much as possible will we be able to cope with this crisis (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u59	Madam Secretary, it is good to hear what action you are taking. Sitting still is not an option. For that this wave weighs too heavy again. Our movement believes in international solidarity, but the need for it has never been so great today. It is worrying to note that some parties are so determined in their ideas that they prefer the risk of mutation rather than contributing to the solution. Come on, you'd better tell the honest story. Our weapons against the virus in our own country are very important. We already have enough vaccines at our disposal. In addition, it is also essential for our future to prevent new mutations. That is why we must also focus on the lifting of patents and the sharing of our technology. The longer we wait for it, the higher the price we will all pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u60	Madam President, Prime Minister, in 2019 you said about the IS-brides: "The last thing we want is to bring those people back to Belgian soil." This government even successfully filed legal proceedings so that the mothers would not come along with the IS children you then wanted to bring back. But with this government, turns go faster than with Nina Derwael. At the beginning of March, you stated in Parliament that mothers would also be taken back, in the interests of national security. In your opinion, repatriation was safer than trial on the spot, you said, because only here would be assured that they would receive their deserved prison sentence. Ask the family of the murdered agent Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen how serious that is being taken in this country. Of the six supporters of terrorist group IS who repatriated the government from Syria in the last summer, there has been free dom for one month now. However, your Minister of Justice here last week guaranteed that those six ladies were still under lock and key. There are only two possibilities: either your Minister of Justice is lying to Parliament or he is not even well informed about this important dossier. I think he's capable of both, but I don't know which one is most disturbing. Mr Prime Minister, are you not complaining about the expensive repatriation? In the meantime, have you come to the understanding that those ISIS gangsters, who deliberately left, are better off staying away? How will you guarantee careful follow-up this time? Retrieving that lady and her ISIS friends already cost about 1.5 million euros to the taxpayer. Does the said lady now receive benefits to settle in a Flemish municipality? May we also know in which municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u61	Madam President, Prime Minister, exactly a week ago your party colleague, the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, lied to this Parliament and thus to the entire population. In this context, he guaranteed us guaranteeing our service is a very strong verb that all repatriated IS-terrorists are locked up, which I contested last week. Since then, he has not been available for comment. All the reasons seem good not to be here today. I already heard this week that he had to go to London, that he was in quarantine, now he's solving the problems in Saudi Arabia. He could have done that perfectly this weekend. On Thursday we will be questioning our government. He should have looked us in the eye and apologized to that entire population. Either that lie was willful, or he was misinformed about a hot iron, one of his few hot irons. I don't know what to think is the worst. However, the terrorist who is now at large on very easy terms is on your national list of persons suspected of terrorism. You actively repatriated those six terrorists and their children. This could cost a sloppy EUR 1.5 million and was in the interests of our national security. However, the N-VA has always said to leave them there and try them there. They'd get a real punishment over there, and there's that evidence there, too. In the meantime, the victims of terror have to do it with a bummer. Knowing what you know now, are you still behind this active repatriation? Are there any such operations on your agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u62	Madam President, Mrs Pas, Mr Metsu, the Minister for Justice is sorry. He is in the Emirates to conclude agreements there to make it easier for criminals who are wanted in our country to be extradited to our country. That is absolutely the work you can expect from a Minister of Justice. Mr Metsu will also interview him in committee. The Minister will give him all the details there. In July of this year there was a repatriation of ten children and six mothers. The priority has always been the importance of children. Those children themselves have not made the choice to live in these disastrous conditions of those camps. It's always been the priority. Children who have not made that choice have the right to be removed from difficult circumstances. Each of the six mothers was subject to an international arrest mandate. Five of the six mothers had already been convicted, i.e. for execution. A sixth woman hadn't been convicted yet. Mr Van Quickenborne has indeed stated that the six mothers were locked up. He based himself on information that he received from the federal prosecutor the day before. The federal prosecutor then realized he was wrong. The federal prosecutor's office also confirmed that the Federal Attorney had given information to the Minister of Justice which was not correct. The Minister of Justice immediately referred to the federal court. The federal court confirmed that there had indeed been a mistake in the information given to the Minister. Mistakes are human, but it is absolutely necessary to avoid making such mistakes in this domain. However, the Minister has based himself in good faith on information he has received. Since 2015, a total of 470 people have been convicted of terrorist offences in our country. Many of them were indeed foreign terrorist fighters. All Syrian fighters, men and women, are being prosecuted. That is also what one can expect from a rule of law, that one does it seriously and in a mechanic way. That also means that the Justice Department succeeds those people. That means that some people, because they served part of their sentence or based on a procedure used by their defense attorney, are no longer in prison. Very often, because they are on OCAD lists, these people are followed. These are also the elements of a democratic state of law. In a democratic state, it is not the minister who decides whether someone is going to jail. It's not the minister who decides if anyone's gonna get probation. It's not the minister who has to make this kind of decision. That is the essence of a democratic state of law. These are the choices we have made together to ensure that this is strictly separate. I hope you will confirm that this is the way we want a democratic rule of law to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u63	Prime Minister, the safest thing is not to try them here and not to release them again in society after a ridiculously short prison sentence. The ISIS gangsters must be tried where they have committed their atrocities and not in the land they have turned their backs on. You're hiding behind a court order. Indeed, it is not the Minister who decides on an individual release. However, the judge's ruling is only possible because you went to get them actively. Stop it. Your policy has allowed jihadists to walk the streets behind bars. Tell your minister that he is not only better informed, but also that he dramatically increases the penalties for the jihadists and that he succeeds them. That does not happen until further notice. You say that it is not the choice of the children involved. That's right. However, it is a conscious choice of their parents. Above all, it is not the choice of the many victims of the IS terror and their children. That's where your priority should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u64	Mr Prime Minister, you are certainly not lying, but you are not answering two simple yes-no questions. Knowing what you know now, would you actively repatriate? That was the first question. Question two was worded as follows: Are any repatriations planned by the current government? I didn't get an answer twice. Meanwhile, the blackbird is being assigned to someone else. It may well be that it is not the Minister's fault that a judge should judge. However, it is the Minister's fault that the terrorists have been repatriated. Let's make that very clear. Nor has it been since last week that the Minister should have been informed. Such a delicate dossier should be followed up on a daily basis. The terrorist has been at large since October 2021. Minister, allow me to conclude by quoting you: "I call for an international tribunal to bring the Syrian fighters to justice. That seems to me to be the only logical solution. Those people need to be tried. What we absolutely do not want is to bring them back to our country." What does the government do, however? She brings them back and lets them sign a charter, in which they promise that they will never do it again. That's incredibly naive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u65	Madam President, Prime Minister, the public is quite tired of having to see, for too many months, a government that runs a little in every direction like a chicken without a head. No clarity on the nuclear strategy! No clarity on the health strategy! And now, no clarity on the police strategy! You are responding today in the place of the Minister of the Interior, who can be expected to be held back by negotiations with the police forces' organisations. These include legitimate wage claims. We know that the base salary has not been reviewed since the last police reform, more than 20 years ago. The prospects are also unclear as to the end of the professional career, since the credits for NAPAP, if they are not already complete - still 4 million for 2022 at the federal police level - do not offer any prospect from 2023, either for the federal police or for the local police. It is therefore an uncertainty for a professional body that has been constantly degreased, previously under the aegis of Mr Jambon. We are now paying for it in the police areas, with insufficient students coming out of the academies to be hired, while we need it on the ground. And you also impose a structural economy on the Department of the Interior. Inflation is galloping. The figure of 6% is mentioned this morning by the Federal Office of the Plan, with potentially two indexes to come in 2022. There are therefore also fears, in the police areas, and therefore for the local authorities, of an explosion of charges, as usual without financial compensation from the federal government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u66	Mr Prévot, thank you for your question, which is indeed within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. She apologized today because of an international meeting, but I will give you her answer. Social negotiations with the police began in February this year. They are part of the Minister of the Interior's policy to make police occupations more attractive. This is also part of the government's decision to invest heavily in security. You probably noticed that, too. These negotiations are difficult and take place in a budgetary context that we must always take into account. Consultations were held again this Tuesday. Minister Verlinden discusses operational, administrative and logistical personnel, and a salary framework that has not been renegotiated for 20 years. It is important for local authorities to be involved in the discussions because they bear a significant part of the wage cost, namely that of the local police. It was also agreed that, during the negotiation period, the police would no longer conduct actions. I think that makes sense. When you negotiate, you do it at the table, and you can't do actions in parallel. I think the minister is doing a lot of work. Today, negotiations are taking place around the table and that is a good thing. The minister keeps me and the other Kern ministers informed of the issues under discussion. We have full confidence in this dialogue between the unions and the minister, leading to a solution and a framework that will make the police more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u67	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You're saying I certainly noticed that the government decided to invest heavily in security. I must be distracted because I confess to you that this massive investment in security didn't look at me. Even less for citizens and law enforcement. On the other hand, what has come to light is the linear reduction of the appropriations imposed on the departments, the fact that today there is 15 per cent of the framework which is still lacking on the ground and that there has still not been any reassuring comment about the fact that the municipalities were not going to have to bear a further carry-over of charges which will impair the ability to perform the primary security function. There is much talk of freedom in the health debate, but we forget that the first freedom is security, security of property and security of people. There, for a long time, several governments have not met. I hope there will soon be white smoke for these forces. I also hope, in the light of the macroeconomic outlook for 2022 (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u68	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u69	The next item is the vote on the nomination of the alternate members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The next item is the vote on the appointment of alternate members of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (2329/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (2329/1) In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of Thursday, 18 November 2021 and Thursday, 2 December 2021, members were able to vote until today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of Thursday 18 November 2021 and Thursday 2 December 2021, Members were able to vote until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present, Sophie Rohonyi and Mélissa Hanus, are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present, Sophie Rohonyi and Mélissa Hanus, are invited to attend the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3. The results will be announced in the course of the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u71	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u72	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the construction industry is the sector in which time is spent smoothly. That has a number of reasons. For example, the sector is highly sensitive to climatic conditions, which often puts the delivery of yards under pressure of time. It is therefore not surprising that employers insist on the necessary flexibility. Moreover, the presence of many foreign workers and subcontractors is not unusual either. They put pressure on our labour regulations, which we deeply regret. This proposal raises the old system, which allowed up to one hour extra work, to an hour and a half. This seems to be little, but we must ensure that too long work will have a negative impact on the number of accidents at work caused, for example, by fatigue. As the social partners have reached an agreement, the proposal was almost naturally adopted unanimously in committee. However, I would warn against blinding ourselves to the large number of accidents at work, many even with fatal consequences, which is deeply regrettable. We hope that the extension of possible working time will not be an incentive for more accidents at work. We must also point out the justified criticism of the Council of State, which commented on its entry into force and asked for such measures to be published in good time. However, overtime may be performed in situations where there is extra work. Due to the fact that the construction company generally faces a large number of unfilled vacancies, it is de facto busy all year round. The exception rule has thus become a standard rule. No one has asked whether the construction workers themselves are so happy with this and whether it can be combined with their family life. There can and must be flexibility, but it must not be an excuse for the necessary reform of our labour market, with the aim of avoiding as many people as possible having a job. The problems in the labour market must not be solved by giving workers even more work and making them perform even more, but by filling the existing job vacancies with a specific labour policy based on the regions, which we will not surprise you - very much asking for. I'm rounding up. Despite our comments, our group will approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u73	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u74	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2195/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2195/3) the bill has 2 clauses. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u77	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u78	Madam President, I would also like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u79	Madam Chair, Minister, we have to vote on this bill that implements part of the interprofessional agreement. As I have said on many occasions, it is with great respect for social consultation that I approach this text, and it is with pleasure that we will support it, which is the result of this social consultation. That does not prevent me from having an opinion on the content of this bill. It should be remembered that this agreement could be found under the 1996 law on the safeguarding of competitiveness and thus with the limitation of wage increases to 0.4%. There was therefore a need to implement a series of things in order for this dialogue to succeed. I would like to stress positively the action taken by this Vivaldi government, which, together with the environmentalists, has supported a whole series of measures to achieve this agreement, which is reflected in the text under discussion. I regret, of course, that overtime is promoted and encouraged through the various mechanisms put in place, because in doing so, we are moving towards an increase in working time, which is not consistent with our ambition to maintain well-being at work and prevent the disease of the century, namely burn-out. I therefore reserve this element, which I hope will remain temporary. My own feeling is reinforced by the fact that this encouragement to provide additional overtime will be possible in all sectors. However, during the debates in December 2020, sectors had been identified as essential, in need of labour and for which it was necessary to provide more overtime. With this text, this possibility is offered to all sectors, including sectors that, such as large-scale distribution, have not suffered as a result of the pandemic. I would like to conclude my statement with a very positive note. I am thinking here of the increase in the minimum wage which had not been increased for far too long. The measures that have been put on the table to facilitate the conclusion of this agreement are reflected in the bill under consideration. As I support the increase in the minimum wage, I obviously support the measures that have been implemented to allow this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u80	Madam Chair, Minister, with the vote on this bill, I want to say that it is above all the victory of the social concertation that we are taking, the victory of the workers who are finally seeing the increase in the minimum wage. A minimum wage that had fallen from the median wage since 2008 and was less than 10 euros per hour, an indecent wage for a society that wants to be fairer and fairer. Today we are talking about an increase of 15% within five years. This represents an increase of 150 net euros by 2026. In a small budget, it is an important and necessary sum. It is certainly not Byzantium, but it allows many people to get their heads out of the water. It is also a realistic and progressive way of reducing job traps. Going back to work for a decent wage after a long period of unemployment is something other than earning 10 euros an hour. Working to leave poverty must be obvious. I want to speak here to those who talk to us all the time about our government who would do something other than gifts, than to play in Saint-Nicolas with the unemployed and the workers. The agreement in this bill also does not leave employers left behind because they too can be happy. Not only does purchasing power increase and will stimulate consumption, but they have also obtained flexibility measures. In fact, the number of voluntary overtime hours authorized without overtime, without dues, without professional discount is reduced for all sectors from 100 to 220 hours. It's a hell of an increase that's not going to contribute to our social security. This is a compromise reached in the context of the recovery. I wanted to stress that. As discussed in the oral questions, the bosses still dare to ask for more. They'd like an index jump. They say they're worried. However, they do not want to worry about the financing of our social security when it comes to reducing their own contributions. No, raising the minimum wage is not a gift! In my view, this is a matter of social justice. As the minister said earlier, the vote on this project took place in the week when the 27 European Labour Ministers adopted a legislative proposal aimed at promoting the establishment of the appropriate minimum wage, and for the first time it put forward collective bargaining and social consultation. With this vote, we therefore set the tone. Of course, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u81	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after long months of negotiations on 8 June, the employers' and trade unions' banks concluded an interprofessional agreement for the period 2021-2022, agreeing on several measures relating to minimum wage, supplementary pension, overtime and flexibility, as well as to the organisation of career and other purposes. The bill that we are dealing with today will implement some of these measures. A lot has already been said about him. While it is pointless to be redundant, I would nevertheless like to go back to certain provisions, which seem to me to be fully justified, not only because they are aimed at supporting the employment and purchasing power of workers, but also at companies and their competitiveness. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, for almost two years now we have been suffering from this pandemic and the economic crisis that goes hand in hand. We do not yet really see the end of the tunnel. When we analyze the last Consultation Committees, we easily understand that the government will still have to take supportive action for the coming weeks and months. The situation is not simple, and taking balanced measures is not a small matter – but on the contrary. In this project, overtime is mentioned. I know that this will probably not make everyone happy in this House. For this first point, the G10 agreement concerns the extension of the 120 overtime increase to all sectors – and not just to the so-called "essential" sectors. It should also be recalled that such overtime will be introduced on a voluntary basis. These "hours of recovery", as we are going to call them, will not have to be recovered and will be treated without any extra pay. So, in our view, it will actually be a win-win operation. The bill also provides for the extension of innovation premiums, another aspect that aims to support the purchasing power of workers through advantageous taxation and para-taxation. A third part consists of supplementary pensions. Here too, the agreement between the trade unions and the employer's office is to postpone the initial deadlines for the harmonization of the second pillar between employees and workers. In terms of the homogenisation of the statutes, the social partners have made significant progress, but the covid crisis has interrupted discussions on this subject. The social partners have asked to be able to post the deadlines to 2025 and 2030, while also extending the standstill period. We will also support this aspect of the agreement. Finally, with regard to the minimum income guarantee, you rightly recalled, Minister, that the minimum wage had not been increased since 2008. It's a reality. For the first time since then, employers and trade unions have agreed on raising the lowest wages. In addition, the worker's seniority will no longer be taken into account for access to the minimum wage. However, this increase, scheduled for 1 April, will result in additional costs for businesses. The Government has therefore taken two steps: on the one hand, to compensate for this increase through the introduction of a "low-wage" component, so as not to impede the competitiveness of enterprises; and, on the other hand, the introduction of an automatic indexation mechanism for the wage pillar. In conclusion, I would say that purchasing power and competitiveness have ultimately been the key players in the development of this balanced agreement. We are committed to supporting him fully and that is what we will do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain from this social agreement. We are defending social agreements, but the latter has created a lot of turmoil in this country to get a minimum of things. We will, of course, support the positive aspects, but at the same time we are abstaining because, in our view, too many of these measures concern, in particular, the flexibilisation of work and the possibility of working overtime, even though we know that there are many long-term patients. It's not by making people work more that we're going to solve this problem. On the other hand, we also want to send a positive signal to all trade unionists because the debate between them about accepting or refusing this agreement has not been simple. If the government had been closer to the trade unions, they would not have been forced to accept, by a very short majority, this exchange between a small increase in the minimum wage and an increase in the number of completely deregulated overtime. For these reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u83	Madam President, Minister, this draft law implements the interprofessional agreement. It goes without saying that it is very satisfied that the social partners have been able to reach an agreement. In our social welfare state, it is very important that we take civil society into account and that we also implement the agreements they conclude very carefully. My group will therefore vote in favour of the draft law. However, I would like to make a few more comments. It has already been said here by others: we can only welcome the increase in the minimum wage. It's been since 2008. Minimum wages are going up gradually, with a first increase starting from April 2022, which amounts to an additional 76 euros. Moreover, by strengthening the work bonus but also by reducing the special contribution to social security, the government also ensures that not only those working on a minimum wage but also those earning more will be left with more net income. We have just had a discussion about purchasing power: this seems to me to be an important step forward for the people working on these wages. It is also a key to solving bottleneck professions. A large number of bottleneck professions have particularly low wages, in difficult working conditions. By increasing wages and ensuring that people remain more net, a number of bottleneck functions will be made more attractive. I consider this to be a first step. Then there is the European Commission's proposal on European minimum wages, where each state has to check whether the minimum wage is sufficient to make a living. I compete every month for a minimum wage of EUR 14 per hour, and I believe that the European initiative supports this fight. We need to look further at how to achieve these European objectives here in Belgium. An agreement always contains good things but also less good aspects, such as the increase in voluntary overtime. I have asked several ministers for figures on what has already happened since 2020, but apparently they do not exist. Minister, you said that we should evaluate this at the end of the journey. I'm gonna hold you to that so we can definitely look at the impact of that. I often hear people say that the workload has become untenable today. This morning I had someone on the phone who'd been out for four weeks, but didn't see it coming. However, that person had always been motivated. But suddenly there was a blackout for four weeks. You take various measures around the well-being at work and about mental resilience. Minister Frank Vandenbroucke is also working on this. We really need to monitor what impact these additional overtime will have. Finally, on the postponement of supplementary pensions and equality between workers and servants. I regret that, but I understand that the corona crisis is a part of this. The economy is currently uneven: some companies are making large profits, but others are experiencing a huge impact as a result of this crisis. There too, I call on the government to look at how the agreement relates to the government agreement which talks about a generalisation of 3%. To end with a positive note, I refer to the strengthening of the statutory pension. This is very important for many people, especially the increase in minimum pensions, as well as the increase in the wage ceiling on which pensions are calculated. For example, the insurance principle for working people has been strengthened through pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u84	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that the social partners have reached this agreement. To say that he fully satisfies us would be exaggerated, but we are committed to consultation, as many of us here. It must remain at the centre of our social and economic policies. Every time it is muzzled, we strongly deplore it, as was the case in the previous legislature, when the 1996 Wage Standard Act was reformed. This reform has greatly reduced the negotiating margin. Simulations presented in committee had shown that in some cases the margin of manoeuvre could be almost zero. It is therefore no wonder that trade union organizations are offended that a maximum margin of only 0.4 per cent has been imposed by the government under this reformed law. I am not going to reopen the debate, but we regret the fact that a correction is not on your government's agenda to give more room for consultation. We also deplore the fact that the harmonization of supplementary pension schemes for workers and employees has had to be postponed. For us, this distinction of status is and will remain a profound injustice that must be corrected as soon as possible in all its aspects. However, the increase in the minimum wage is a real step forward and we welcome the fact that it is already planned to go further since the social partners reached an agreement with a first phase on 1 April 2022 – and then on other stages – to increase the minimum wage in a constant and gradual manner. Therefore, I confirm our support in the vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2304/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2304/5) the bill has 25 clauses. The draft law has 25 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The next item is the discussion of draft law No 2190 approving the Cooperation Agreement of 15 December 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region amending the Cooperation Agreement of 2 September 2013 between the Federal State, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region on the integration of aviation activities into the Community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in accordance with Directive 2008/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 amending Directive 2003/87/EC in order to integrate aviation activities into the Community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Colleagues, the speakers are currently in the Committee on Energy, with the exception of Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u88	Madam President, if I understand correctly, would you prefer to move the item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u89	That's right. We'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u90	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Koen Metsu, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u92	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2174/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2174/3) the bill has 14 clauses. The draft law has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u94	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u95	- 1958: Kattrin Jadin, Nathalie Gilson, Daniel Bacquelaine, Denis Ducrame, Françoise Reuter, Vincent Scourneau, Caroline Taquin, Benoit Piedboeuf, Marianne Verhaert, Goedele Liekens. - 2283: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u96	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1958/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1958/5) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the protection of the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Resolution on the Protection of Women's and Girls' Rights in Afghanistan." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mrs Vicky Reynaert, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Ms. de Laveleye was listed as the first speaker, but she is retained in the Energy Committee. I hope she will be able to join us to take up the current discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, since August, we are all concerned about the re-establishment of power by the Taliban in Afghanistan. I will not go back to the success of the repatriation mission which concerns the Belgians and their beneficiaries, nor to the positive aspects. No, today I am speaking on behalf of my group to support the Afghan people who have remained under pressure from the Taliban regime, and in particular to support specific groups such as LGBT people, women, girls and journalists. We cannot forget, even if this is not exactly the objective of my colleague Kattrin Jadin's text, that many LGBT Afghans are living in fear that the Taliban will introduce the same kind of fundamentalist and brutal regime that they imposed between 1996 and 2001. It cannot be forgotten that their radical reading of the Shariah had led to persecution and atrocious crimes against homosexuals, living burials or executed in public. For women and girls, a subject that we are dealing with today, it is clear to my group that European bodies must fund specific assistance and humanitarian programmes for the protection of victims or persons at risk of violence and for their relatives, who support them. Amnesty International calls for action by pointing out that, since they took control of Kabul on 15 August, the Taliban have imposed drastic restrictions on women and girls. They were prohibited from resuming their professional activity, from moving in public space without being accompanied by a male guardian. They were deprived of education from the age of 12 and this is probably only the beginning of terrible persecution of them. Before that date, and despite the ongoing conflict, Afghan women had become lawyers, doctors, judges, teachers, engineers, athletes, activists, women politicians, journalists, civil servants, business leaders, police officers and members of the army. The ban on women from working has terrible consequences for themselves, of course. It also has consequences for their families and for all Afghans. The loss of employment causes increased financial hardship for many already oppressed households that had previously been able to rely on regular incomes. The forced departure of public service employees left a huge gap in the workforce, undermining the very ability of the State to govern itself and to govern effectively. Afghan women are also faced today with an increased risk of gender-related violence and severe restrictions on their right to freedom of assembly and expression, particularly with regard to their choice of dress. The plight of journalists and women journalists is also worrying. According to Reporters Without Borders (RSF), fewer than 100 Afghan women journalists are still active to date. They were 700 before the Taliban took power. Even today, the report of the Committee for the Protection of Journalists (CPJ) reports the death of four journalists in the performance of their duties in Afghanistan in 2021. Several international instruments specifically protect girls and women because of their vulnerability and specific needs. These texts recognize that girls and women are exposed to a continuum of violence of their own. Because they are women, they suffer more serious and recurrent violence. In this sense, such violence is based on gender. Our country must continue to take this position high and strong in all international forums. I would also like to stress a request from the text which is particularly dear to my heart: "Accommodate with dignity on Belgian soil anyone who is endangered by the Taliban's accession to power and who meets the conditions of refugee and to continue to do everything in his (the government) power to make possible the departure from the country of those who demand it". On the eve of International Human Rights Day, I draw your attention to the fact that we will need to be vigilant and that our attention will remain focused on these categories of people who are particularly at risk today and now. For my group, beyond speaking, we must move on to action. That is why we will strongly support Mrs Jadin et al.'s text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen with horror the hasty and completely chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Taliban's Islam terrorists overwhelmed the whole country in a rotten sail by President Biden's ill-thought-out approach, yet at his turn, the favourite of the left and the liberals. Our group is obviously extremely concerned about the women's rights situation in Afghanistan, which is extremely poignant. Razia Arefe of Mothers for Peace Afghanistan stated the following at the hearing and in fact sums up all this: twenty years of struggle, hope, dreams and ambitions were destroyed in one blow; religious extremism has prevailed over the joint achievements and has catapulted the women twenty years ago in time. Indeed, women are denied education. They are segregated in the public institutions. They are deprived of all political rights and civil liberties. They are obliged to carry a burka and so on. The Taliban 2.0 is as brutal as the first version. All kinds of Islamic corporal punishments are being re-established. Sharia, where gender inequality is a rule, is carried out very loyally in today's Afghanistan. The West has no choice but to watch, despite all the raging statements, such as this motion for a resolution. The proposal itself has been updated by as many as 50 majority amendments, as it was, of course, hopelessly out of date. When the authors wrote it, they were still hopeful for a political solution to the negotiations between the Taliban, the Afghan Government and the West. Now it turns out the whole nationbuilding operation has been for nothing. The Taliban could not be defeated, because the majority of Afghan men could not be persuaded of our Western values. That's what's hurting women right now. However much we want to defend women's rights and human rights in Afghanistan, we cannot reform that country internally. That train's passed. The whole concept has failed, as far as we are concerned. The Afghans themselves must reform their culture. We can't impose it from above. What we certainly cannot do is to support the Taliban with humanitarian assistance. Our group therefore regrets the fact that 2 million has been released in the context of development cooperation. Let us be honest, no one really believes that our financial support will end up in the right hands, in the hands of the Afghan people. It is not just an unstable undemocratic regime like that of other countries, which we are sending humanitarian aid to. No, it's a totalitarian theocracy where an Islamic terror group is everywhere today. No one in Afghanistan can get around the Taliban. They are lord and master now. Moreover, it is still extremely dangerous in the country and several clans are in the clinch with each other. So there is very little chance that our EUR 2 million will be spent properly and that it will end up in the hands of terrorists. We strongly advocate the defence of women's and human rights on the international stage, but not by continuing to do business with terrorists. The proposal continues to call for an operational commitment and dialogue with the Taliban regime, and we are firmly in favour of this. Our group wants nothing to do with this regime. It is an illusion to think that money or negotiation will lead them to a different path of women's rights. However, the applicants claim that they do not want to officially recognise the Taliban regime, but diplomatic negotiations with a regime constitute an implicit recognition of that regime under international law. As long as we continue to do business with the Taliban, we acknowledge them. This cannot be accepted by our group. We naturally agree with the spirit of the proposal. Women's and human rights are crucial in our foreign policy, but they must also be crucial in our choice of partners. We must not normalize rules which violate our values by talking to them. That is why we will abstain from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u99	Madam President, I would like to thank the colleagues in the Committee on External Affairs for their constructive work during three sessions. This motion for a resolution was approved in committee almost unanimously. We have heard that there will be one abstention. For my group, the protection and promotion of the freedoms of women and girls is a priority. They are for our government, for our Secretary of State and for our Minister of Foreign Affairs. We also thank the three speakers of the NGO Mothers For Peace who shared their difficult experience, experience and observations of the situation on the ground in committee. Their testimony demonstrated the urgency and despair for women and girls in Afghanistan, but also, more generally, for minorities in that country. Many people are no longer safe there since the Taliban seized power last August. Afghan women and girls, in collaboration with the international community, have made considerable efforts over the past two decades to change their situation, their rights, their freedoms and also Afghan society as a whole towards a more open country. Their presence, their activity and their positioning have been gradually consolidated in all areas of society, with differences between the cities and the more provincial regions. Whether it is their access to education, the labour market, culture, sport, their participation in public life or their freedoms in the public sphere, women have seen a real positive development over the past 20 years. It is an entire generation that has been able to benefit from this evolution. Women and girls have been made aware of their strength, value and positive impact on the development of their country. Much remained to be done. This kind of change takes place slowly and at the cost of many efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore very frustrating, very disappointing and revolting to see the brutal and, above all, extremely rapid turn back of Afghan women and society as a whole in terms of insecurity and deprivation of liberty. Evolution was, we know, very fragile. Many families, activists, journalists, members of minorities and others wishing to leave Afghanistan have been evacuated, and we welcome this. Nevertheless, as was recalled at the hearing of the NGO Mothers for Peace, the conditions in which these evacuees live are not simple. Many had to leave their family and friends and leave behind the life they had built. People who are still there face very important difficulties. As stated last month by the United Nations Special Representative for Afghanistan, Deborah Lyons, the United Nations predicts that 60 per cent of Afghanistan's 38 million people will face a food emergency that, as has been seen in recent days, will worsen even further this winter. It should also be noted that, since the Taliban seized power, Afghanistan has faced a risk of economic collapse, which – by the way – also increases the risk of extremism. The international community, which has frozen billions of Central Bank funds and development spending, has made women's rights a key element of any future engagement with Afghanistan. The Taliban have indicated their desire to establish a theocratic regime based on the strict interpretation of the Shariah and to be willing to preserve the rights acquired over the past twenty years, including women and girls, only if they are compatible with the Shariah. That means, ladies and gentlemen, unequivocally, a reversal and a significant deprivation of rights and freedoms for Afghan women. Segregation within universities, strict dress code, dismantling of the Afghan Ministry for Women's Affairs and passing. On 3 December last, the Afghan Taliban Government issued a decree stipulating that women should not be considered property, should not be forced to marry and should consent to marriage. It also stipulates that widows should have a share of their deceased husband's property. On the other hand, the decree makes no mention of the possibility for women to work, to have access to facilities outside the home or to education, which are nevertheless major concerns of the international community. We consider it fundamental that respect for women's and children's rights determines our level of engagement with the Taliban, in close cooperation with our partners in the European Union, and that this operational commitment within the humanitarian framework does not implicitly give the impression that it constitutes a form of recognition by the Taliban government. I have made this very clear in committee. We must reiterate our constant appeal to the parties to respect the international instruments that protect human rights, to which Afghanistan is a party. It is also imperative, ladies and gentlemen, to support civil society initiatives aimed at improving the rights and freedoms of women and girls in Afghanistan, in particular in relation to violence against them. Recall the Afghan law on the elimination of violence against women, which was one of the main advances for women after 2001. Adopted in 2009, it provides Afghan women and girls with legal protection against domestic violence, as well as access to free health care, legal aid for survivors, and shelters. They, funded by foreign donors, were often their only means of relief in a context where complaints of domestic violence or sexual assault were difficult. These shelters and the people who support these women must be supported in order not to abandon the victims to their fate. This motion for a resolution as a whole therefore represents a signal that we send not only to our Government, ladies and gentlemen, but also to women, girls, minorities, activists and all Afghans who have been able to flourish and see their country do the same over the last twenty years and who refuse to go back. We fully support the appeal made by Afghan women and girls to protect human rights, their rights and freedoms and gender equality. We recognize the courage they have shown over the past 20 years to be a force for change in their country. We also recognize the courage they show by daring to go down the streets of Kabul and other major cities in order to defend their rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that my group will support this motion for a resolution. Once again, I would like to thank you for the constructive work that has been done in committee and for your attention and, I hope, for your vote. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u100	Madam President, it is a bit quiet around Afghanistan today, after this summer's hangover. I was therefore struck by the stories of VRT journalist Rudi Vranckx, who visited Afghanistan four months after the takeover of power by the Taliban. He had horrible stories about selling girls and daughters to survive as a family. He also spoke to Elham, an Afghan girl who would normally take her final exam to get access to university around this time. Now, however, she is at home, because it is no longer possible for many girls her age to take lessons. The classroom where she was is now a kind of desk. The future dreams of millions of ambitious girls are being whipped. What we saw today is just the tip of the iceberg. What we are doing today is important to continue to support the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan. We can't just look the other way, like this isn't there, and just say some cries. That is why we have drafted this resolution. There are good elements in it to determine how we will deal with it in the future as an international community. We have included in this resolution elements of interest to our group. Firstly, there is, of course, respect for human rights, in particular women's rights, one of the European Union's benchmarks. We do not commit to the Taliban government until these five benchmarks, including women's rights, are respected. We also believe that our relations with Afghanistan should be limited to what is necessary from a humanitarian, operational and logistical point of view. Of course, there can be no recognition of the Taliban government for these five benchmarks at the moment. Terrorism, safe departure from Afghanistan, women's rights and humanitarian access are important elements that must first be respected. At the same time, in our limited contacts with the Taliban, we must always include the protection of women's fundamental rights and freedoms. We must continue to work for women to participate in employment, sport, leisure, culture and education. That was my first point. Secondly, as I said, we are dependent on what we achieve through the media on the situation in Afghanistan. There's a lot going on under the radar. In order to obtain more information on the concrete situation on the ground, it is important that the international community calls for the establishment of an investigation mission by the UN Human Rights Council and for an independent monitoring mechanism to monitor what is happening on the ground. In this way, we are already aware of what is happening today. At present, we do not have objective facts to determine how to proceed with this. A third important point that we raised in this resolution is that the European Union must also play a role in Afghanistan. We therefore call on Belgium to support the installation of a minimum EU presence in Afghanistan. A regional cooperation platform with neighbouring countries should also be set up to facilitate humanitarian aid. Finally, we have had very poignant hearings, including with the Ypres Mothers for Peace organisation, which is receiving support to set up beautiful projects in Afghanistan to develop women's rights. All these women had to run away, and it's important that we get them right here. They have shown enormous courage to stand on the barricades in a country such as Afghanistan, but they are now being punished for that. As an international community, the least we can do is to offer a safe home. I would like to thank the authors for this resolution, which is very important in these difficult times in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are discussing a resolution on Afghanistan. This country has experienced 20 years of disastrous war, led by Western forces. Twenty years of war that ended in the Taliban coming to power. The aim of this resolution is to provide financial and humanitarian assistance to the abruptly abandoned Afghan people. This is the least on the part of Belgium, partly responsible, with its partners, for these 20 years of war. It is therefore quite normal to show responsibility for the assistance that needs to be given to this population. The PTB will support this resolution, in particular in its following aspects: the dignified reception on Belgian soil of anyone who is threatened by the Taliban's accession to power and who fulfils refugee conditions, as well as the call to advocate for the creation of a regional political platform for cooperation with Afghanistan's direct neighbours. After all, it is these neighbouring countries that are faced first and foremost with the consequences of the collapse of the war in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the request No 6 that "the lifting of any targeted sanctions against Afghanistan and the granting of Belgian and European financial aid should be systematically subordinated to the concrete commitment of the Taliban government". In no way will I stand on the side of a Taliban government, but when sanctions are put in place, it is always the people who are affected. It's not governments, it's not leaders, it's people. Among these populations, it is always the most vulnerable who pay the high price. Today, the most vulnerable in Afghan society, especially girls and women, suffer the consequences of the Taliban coming to power. Putting this kind of element in this resolution is a contradiction between the purpose of the resolution and the existence of this request No 6 in the text. If we want to provide practical assistance to the population, it is not through sanctions that we will achieve this because, as I said, these sanctions primarily affect the population. Here, our goal is to provide assistance to this population. This must be done in a rather cooperative and diplomatic manner, with political solutions. Indeed, it has been observed in the past that this kind of solution, whether in terms of sanctions or military intervention, does not succeed. We had 20 years of war and in the end, the Taliban came to power. That logic doesn't work. A diplomatic and political logic is needed if solutions are to be found. We will support this resolution in its spirit and its willingness to provide this assistance, but I would nevertheless like to stress our regret that this request 6 in this text is contrary to the objective pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come straight to the point. Unfortunately, the prediction that the Taliban would disregard the rights of Afghan women has come true. During the takeover of power last summer, the Taliban promised that women would have nothing to fear, that everything would be fine and that their rights and freedoms would be safeguarded. In Dutch we say amehula. It is very important to note that these rights and freedoms were indeed there. I've seen it several times myself. I have been there a number of times, together with the NGO Mothers for Peace, with whom we have had very captivating hearings. There was indeed progress and change: education for women and girls, also higher studies, paid jobs outdoors. And with that comes, of course, independence, free choice of partner and even family planning. The Taliban wiped all that off the table, even shot to shreds. The testimonies are huge. Women who are not allowed to leave the house, to wear a burqa or hidjab, to be chased and threatened in certain regions of school, clothing regulations, sports ban. They can't even be seen in television shows anymore. It is clear: the women simply have to disappear, they have to crawl under the ground. Their chances and freedoms are not simply curtailed, they are even wiped out. We also hear worrying stories of young girls sold to the Taliban as bride. A very bad observation is that the Ministry of Women's Affairs, which has been fighting for years for women's emancipation, has been lifted and replaced by the Ministry of Virtue Prevention and Virtue Promotion. The purpose of that ministry, the function of those men is to maintain the Sharia throughout the country, the Sharia as they complete it. Those who don't follow the rules are arrested and most likely tortured by the vice police. There are plenty of stories of hard-handed approach. It is clear that Afghan women live in fear. These Afghan women therefore need the support of the international community now more than ever. I would therefore like to thank the Liberal co-signatories and the other groups for their support for this resolution. It is now more important than ever for our country to monitor the promotion and protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of women and girls in Afghanistan in any diplomatic contact with the Taliban regime, in whatever context. Our country must continue to press that button of gender equality, every opportunity it has. We have to keep knocking on that same nail. We're not abandoning the women and girls in Afghanistan. Any kind of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan is aid for the people, not for the Taliban. We do not recognise the Taliban government. Even if a possible lifting of possible sanctions against Afghanistan may occur later, this can only happen after the Taliban regime enters into a concrete agreement on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention to respect the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The same applies, of course, to the possibility of granting Belgian and/or European financial aid. The conventions on human rights and discrimination against women must first be signed and then perhaps we can talk. Much has changed in Afghanistan over the past 20 years. It wasn't enough, but it looked good. I would like to thank all the courageous women and men who have contributed to this. It's not all been for nothing. Underground emancipation continues. Women have learned to calculate, read and write. They now secretly teach each other how to calculate and read and write. There are clandestine emancipation groups and they forge plans. In Kabul there is a network of former business women who had their own income and still have a few pennies and also plan at the bong. It's not quite back to square one yet. That is precisely why our resolution is so important now. It's time we turned the numbness of the last few months into action. With Open Vld we are very happy to be able to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u103	Our group naturally supports this resolution, which aims to establish Belgium's position vis-à-vis Afghanistan, with the emphasis on women's and girls' rights. For our group, it is important that we learn from our policy over the last 20 years with regard to Afghanistan and from our military presence for twenty years, our very chaotic withdrawal and the overwhelming by the Taliban in a few weeks' time. The situation today is what she is. It is the merit of this resolution to look at the future and our future relations with the country. The starting point is not to turn away from Afghanistan, but of course not to recognise the Taliban regime. To turn our backs on the country would not serve our own interests either. However, it is clear that international law and human rights, and especially the rights of women and children, are crucial for our country's relations with the country. That is why this has been included several times, rightly, in the requests to the government. Colleagues have already clearly outlined the situation in Afghanistan. They've explained why it's important. The hearing with Mothers for Peace was also an eye-opener for me in that area. It was very important to hear that. I would like to stress that finding a balance is not always obvious, but we have found it in this resolution. The resolution calls on the Belgian Government to take an active lead in the installation of a minimum EU presence and to include commitments in this regard. However, it is clearly stated that these commitments cannot be recognised by the regime and the government. Our current commitments are therefore specific and direct to the Afghan population, to the most vulnerable of them, to the women and to the children. The situation is very poignant and serious, because only 5% of the population has enough food. The UN World Food Programme can only meet less than a third of the needs of the Afghan people. Some Afghan families are trying to sell their children to get money to have enough food. That was also clearly documented by journalist Rudy Vranckx last week. He gave the clear message that we must not make a political weapon of hunger and poverty in the fight against the Taliban, because it will be the Afghan people who will suffer and not the political class. The government has already provided humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people through the United Nations to ensure that 1 million children do not die of hunger. Because of the extremely dramatic situation, we cannot and cannot abandon the country. It is important that this humanitarian aid reaches the people directly. To ensure that this is done, this money is given to the UN and to the UN Humanitarian Country Fund. I would like to thank the initiators of the resolution for this initiative, which our group will of course support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u104	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Kattrin Jadin for having tabled this motion for a resolution which aims at the same objective as the motion for a resolution which my group had also tabled later, following the Taliban's resumption of power in Afghanistan. This objective is twofold: to condemn the Taliban government and to support all those who are the victims of it today, in particular women and girls in humanitarian matters but also in international protection. I thank her very much because it is through this kind of initiative that we show our solidarity with women around the world, which we are finally chanting during the demonstrations against violence against women, and to tell them that it is not vain words but a reality that guides us in our daily parliamentary work. I also thank her because the hearings we conducted in committee allowed us to hear the poignant testimony of representatives of the NGO Mothers For Peace, who explained to us with great courage and dignity the horrors experienced in Afghanistan but also their work in the service of the young girls who remained in the country, imploring us not to abandon them. I sincerely believe that these hearings are one of the most significant and moving moments of my young parliamentary career. Today's vote is an opportunity to express our full support for them, as well as our determination to defend as long as necessary the rights of Afghan women, whether they have escaped the Taliban claws or are still prisoners. Indeed, what is happening in Afghanistan today is a humanitarian disaster that is unbearable to us and all the more so since our countries are ultimately responsible for it. I am thinking in particular of the weakness of the international community in the face of the religious fundamentalism and death of the Taliban. After hearing from some Members of this Parliament, in the press or on social networks, that the Taliban may have changed, that their "good will" had to be tested, I am really relieved that the debate we had in committee allowed us to put the clocks back on time by recalling that the recognition of the Taliban regime, as Mrs Jadin pointed out, will never be an option because the Taliban are not governments, they are terrorists. How can we recognize a regime that deprives women of all autonomy, invisibilizes them and hides them under a burka? A regime that excludes them, rapes them and even kills them when they have the misfortune to assert their rights. A regime that steals from millions of girls the carelessness and innocence of their childhood because it causes families in poverty to sell their daughters to men who are twenty, thirty or even forty years old in exchange for supposed protection or money to feed themselves or repay their debts. A regime that deprives women and girls of all access to education, employment, sport, culture, political life, in other words, that deprives them of everything that emancipates them and makes them human beings in their own right with dreams and projects. A regime that erases one by one the valuable advances that had been made in the last twenty years in the area of women's rights and hence the rights granted to half of humanity. A few months ago, Afghan women went to college. They became doctors, nurses, magistrates, engineers. Today, they are killed in their own right as in the figurative. Today, they must sacrifice their education for their safety. What is happening in Afghanistan therefore imposes on us the greatest humility, the greatest solidarity, but also the greatest sense of responsibility. As Malala, the famous activist who resisted the Taliban, rightly said, a woman is not only a mother, a sister or a wife, a woman has the right to her own identity. That is why I would like to thank the colleagues who supported my amendments in committee in order to consolidate our requests to the government: firstly, by stating that the attention given to the rights and freedoms of women and girls and to gender equality must be a priority at all times and not only in the context of the ongoing negotiations, as the original text suggested; secondly, by stating that the practical observance of these rights requires the lifting of any targeted sanctions against Afghanistan; thirdly, by calling on the government to welcome in a dignified manner, on Belgian soil, anyone who is put at risk by the return to power of the Taliban and who meets the conditions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Status of Refugees, but also to do everything in its power to make possible the departure of those who are trying to flee Afghanistan for their survival. This is a clear humanitarian obligation, which is probably the reason why the far right has abstained from this text. Indeed, the emancipation of women was never a very expensive project, but on the contrary! To hear the extreme right, the latter would have abstained because of recognition by the Taliban government or uncertainty as to whether humanitarian aid would reach the people. Has she read the motion for a resolution as voted in committee and therefore as put to our vote this evening? The text makes it clear that the aid and humanitarian resources needed for Afghanistan must be made directly accessible to the Afghan population. The vote on these amendments demonstrates that, with the exception of the Vlaams Belang, the majority and the opposition can work together constructively, when it comes to defending the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable here and elsewhere, when it comes to defending everything that does and strengthens democracy and which, for this reason, is violated by ultra-conservative, liberticide or fundamentalist regimes, whether it is women's and girls' rights, but also freedom of the press, the independence of judges, education for all, the rights of LGBT people. By defending women's rights in Belgium, Afghanistan and elsewhere with such strength and consistency, we recognize that women's rights are the foundation of a democratic society where everyone must be free, respected and protected. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, my group enthusiastically and resolutely supports this text because it is through it that we say today to Afghan women and girls: "We do not abandon you!"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u105	Madam President, I would like to say a few words on behalf of my group because my colleague, Séverine de Laveleye, who has followed the work, unfortunately cannot be in plenary now. Given the important scope of this text, we would like to thank all actors for the work that has been done. The text, which has been updated following the news – the capture of Kabul – and the hearings, puts the rights of Afghan women and girls and human rights in general at the heart of Parliament. This is a political priority for us. We will therefore fully support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u106	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs de Laveleye, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u108	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main changes to the existing cooperation agreement are about CORSIA. It is the compensation scheme for emissions from international aviation approved in 2016 by the 39th General Assembly of ICAO or International Civil Aviation Organisation. The implementation of the CORSIA provisions in the European Member States is, of course, included in European legislation, as set out in Regulation 1603 of 2019. The compensation system thus exists in addition to the relatively young and relatively recent ETS Aviation for flights within the European Economic Area. CORSIA, from a broader perspective, in any case amounts to a climate-related tax on aircraft movements, no matter how small the financial impact of the transfer of the current ETS Aviation, which dates back to 2015. A government can also opt for the introduction of a flight tax, which is a three-stage rocket. Vivaldi opts for that. That is well known. I admit that from a climate point of view, CORSIA is indeed not a superambitious system. It is actually about facilitating carbon-neutral growth of aviation movements. Growth is still accepted in the system. It is well known that aviation movements are still increasing worldwide. The CORSIA system is designed not to further increase the impact of aviation on the climate. The intention of the system is to focus on new technologies, energy efficiency and alternative fuels. Of course, this is not enough for the climate experts, and of course it does not go at the speed with which the EU wants to move forward. In fact, even COP26 did not want to go much further than CORSIA in the field of aviation. In view of our eco-realism, and perhaps that is the attitude of the N-VA colleagues, we could approve this draft. After all, the impact on prices is still limited. Still, we're not gonna do that. Why won't we? Because we're looking at the adjustments after CORSIA from a broader perspective. With the adoption of the Fit for 55 programme by the EU on 14 July, the ETS rules for aviation will also be reviewed. The total number of allowances in EU ETS aviation will be capped at the current level and reduced annually by 4.2 %. At least these are the plans of the European Commission. Free allowances allocated to operators shall be progressively reduced. This free allocation will end at the end of 2026. We all know what will happen then. The Vooruit Group's wet dream, expressed by Mr Verduyck, will be realised if the Member States accept and implement that part of Fit for 55. What's that dream, colleagues? The economic model of cheap flights must not remain, as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has literally said. I quote from the report: 'There must be alternatives to short-haul flights. Short flights can be dealt with through prohibition and detachment measures." Vivaldi opted for the second by introducing an additional tax. Go ahead, a policy with real impact, and we all know what that means. The long rows in Charleroi and Ostend will also be shorter if Fit for 55 is accepted. After all, it is a price incentive that should guide behaviour. We will have to trace not only to Amsterdam and Frankfurt, but also to Madrid, Valencia and Malaga in the long term, to mention just a few airports where we can fly fairly cheaply at the moment. We will not ride on this train, which is no longer in the starting blocks but has already left. Think of the little climate train to COP26 in Glasgow. I thought involuntarily of the little steam train of the young magician Harry Potter, fiction that also takes place in Scotland. All aboard the night train ! Our group will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u109	This cooperation agreement essentially covers two issues. Firstly, it ensures that aviation continues to be covered by the ETS within the European Union and introduces some technical amendments to that effect. Secondly, the CORSIA, which stands for Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, implements. My translation of that difficult term is Carbon Compensation and Reduction System for International Aviation" Through this system international aviation can compensate its emissions, i.e. offset, by planting trees among other things. Let me deal with the two aspects. As far as the ETS system is concerned, it will not surprise you that we are opposed to this market mechanism. We have two reasons for this, namely that it does not work and that it has antisocial and perverse effects. Instead of forcing the major polluters, in this case aviation, to reduce their emissions, the ETS system allows them to buy off their emissions. ETS costs are also simply passed on directly to consumers, which, for example, is one of the causes of the current high price increases. In the case of aviation, this effect will be less significant, but it will also be passed on to customers. For flights within the European Union, it is quite clear that this price mechanism does not work, because it is still many times cheaper to take a short-haul flight than to travel on an international train. So we continue to oppose the ETS system, as it stands in the way of an efficient and social climate solution. Secondly, as far as the CORSIA system is concerned, I should like briefly to mention the offset, the possibility for polluters to compensate for their CO2 emissions elsewhere. These systems have never produced the desired results in the past. On the contrary, it was often about fictitious emission reductions, all kinds of obscure conditions and even literally fried air. One of the first times such a thing was used was with the Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol. Research has shown that the compensation projects under that mechanism only led to effective emission reductions in 2% of cases. That's not all, by the way. These offset systems often put pressure on local ecosystems, leading to human rights violations, an international rush on land and land engraving. Colleagues, I had hoped that, after the sixth IPCC report, we would be able to realise that planting trees to tackle the climate crisis is far from enough. I am therefore surprised that the Greens and the Minister are going along with the story of offset. I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks about the offset programmes and whether she really believes that they will lead to a significant reduction in our emissions. Colleagues, the only way to reduce aviation emissions, which is an effective problem, is to invest in alternatives. This concerns international rail transport and the restriction of short-haul flights with a ban, not a flight tax. We will indeed have to fly less, but there is a great inequality in international mobility today. Many poor people never fly and a select elite club flies a lot. First of all, we need to focus on reducing these frequent flyers. For international flights, sustainable fuel technologies, such as green e-fuels, hydrogen derivatives, will of course still be needed. Offsetting diverts attention from the urgent need to reduce emissions at source and is clearly socially unfair. As I said, a small elite of frequent flyers can simply continue to fly around massively at the expense of local populations in the South, often driven from their countries by compensation programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have already understood that we will be voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this week Club Bruges played his last match in the Champions League against PSG in Paris. The result was not good, but there was one bright spot at the game, I found, namely that blue-black took the train to Paris. In 2019 the team took the plane. There was a lot of criticism of that back then. Everyone remembers the backup game. PSG flew on the plane to Ostend and an empty bus came after it. We can laugh at that, but it is time, I believe, for us to be very clear and honest on such matters. Making these short connections to the plane is no longer funny. Everyone knows that aviation must become more sustainable. Aviation itself knows that. That's one of the reasons why this system was started. We have to fly less, especially for these kinds of movements. Aviation emissions are a problem after all. These emissions are immense. In total, this is as large as the total emissions of a large country as Germany. Today there is a technical application of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA). Let us be honest, it is a good thing that aviation makes its own proposals. Yes, it is good that we do not want to allow emissions to grow further. Yes, it is good that we want to focus on energy efficiency, on new technologies and on new fuels. However, we all know that this system alone will not be enough. This system was established after the Paris Climate Agreement, in which aviation was spared. Aviation itself came up with proposals at that time. What do I think we should do? There are three things very important in this debate, I believe. Firstly, we need to see how aviation is being spared today. If we do not charge VAT on tickets, if we spare a great deal of kerosene, that is not the right way to go. In fact, we are promoting a race to the bottom in terms of cheap ticket prices. I believe that we can do much better to support the sector by working with him to see how we can develop it into a more sustainable sector. After all, energy efficiency and new technologies require investment and cost a lot of money. I don't think a race to the bottom is gonna do anybody any good. Cooperation with the aviation sector is therefore the first thing we must do. Of course, we must do so internationally. Aviation is international. But that does not relieve us of the duty in this House to take a clear position that we, as a country, believe that this should be done. Secondly, we need to focus on alternatives, especially for short connections. With Paris there is a good connection to our capital. Europe is a continent with a strong history of international train connections. There are new initiatives. New high-speed lines are being developed. There are night trains. We must be fully behind all these things. Come on, it'll always support it. Thirdly, the citizen is also entitled to politicians who are not fooled. I will go into more detail about Mr Ravyts' statements. Indeed, the majority of our citizens regularly jump on a plane, but we have to realise that this is not without some impact on our environment. In my view, two things can be done: denying the light of the sun and pretending there is no problem, or consulting with the sector to find solutions. You, Mr Ravyts, choose the easiest way. You refer to the short flight tax in the budget negotiations. I remember very well that Mrs Only then said that city trips were going to be more expensive within 500 km. I was wondering what city trips she was talking about: the one to Düsseldorf, Metz, Rotterdam? Those are short connections, those are the problems. The destinations you mention, such as Malaga, are much more than 500 km away, and there is indeed no serious alternative to this by rail today. However, let me be very clear. The model with which we can fly across Europe today against a single euro is not a sustainable model, and most people know that with great pleasure. It has a huge economic impact. Just in order not to lose that economic impact, we need to focus on alternatives. Pretending there is no problem and continuing to invest in this model has no future, Mr Ravyts. It is good that we are working on the CORSIA system that is before us today. It is important that the aviation sector cooperates and does not increase emissions. We will of course support this, but we believe it will take more than this to turn this tanker, or in this case that jumbo jet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u111	Madam President, you will not blame me for responding to what Mr Verduyckt says. I mentioned him and he calls me, I have no problem with that, but I want to dot the i. Mr Verduyckt, I have indeed quoted longer flights than 500 kilometres and Spain. However, I did not link my prediction of the future to the flight tax, which is currently included in the budget. However, I have not yet linked it to the plans........................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm warning you about. I did not say at all that the CORSIA currently has a major impact on prices. Well, I did say we should look beyond our noses. I live quite close to Ostend and therefore I know that Spain is frequented a lot, for example by my neighbours who have a second stay in Spain. I hope that in the longer term you can convince all those people to take the night trains to Barcelona or Venice, assuming Fit for 55 is accepted without any problems. The border, currently at 500 kilometres, may be extended to 1,000 kilometres or perhaps even 1,500 kilometres; we know how that works. Your wet dream will come true. However, I do not know whether you will enjoy a wet dream on weekends, with the polls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u112	Mr Ravyts, what you are saying is an easy message. Just because of the economic impact, I call for cooperation with the sector to find better solutions. You must not pretend that the present situation has always existed in this way. The figures are also known to you. In the year 2000, 7 million tourists in our continent used a low cost airline for a city trip. Just before the outbreak of the corona pandemic, 120 million tourists were involved. So it's a fairly recent phenomenon. That model will not continue to exist just by looking away or, as you do, by talking to the people. Flying to Spain for a few euros is not a sustainable model. We must help this sector in a different way than we are today. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u113	So, Mr Verduyckt, in seven or eight years, we'll all be together in the Orient Express, romantic, 19th-century, to Istanbul. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u114	Mr De Smedt, I think we can get out of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while my group broadly subscribes to a number of elements in this bill which is helping to make the aviation sector more focused on climate neutrality, which is a step in the right direction, I would nevertheless like to make a few reservations. On the one hand, this ETS compensation system for greenhouse gases, a kind of common pot that determines a trajectory with quotas that gradually declines over the years, if it has the merit of existing, is certainly not the most efficient. Ultimately, it leads more to a rather hypocritical trade in greenhouse gas emissions than to a drastic reduction in these same emissions. The mechanism is certainly insufficiently binding for intra-Community aviation. On the other hand, and several members have spoken on this subject in committee, despite the fact that this is not the strict subject of this bill, it is the economic model of low-cost flights that will have to be mitigated, no doubt at European level, by mechanisms still to be defined, in order to allow the gradual transfer of this enormous burden of greenhouse gases to rail transport. But this is a considerable task, because it is a question of introducing other behaviour in the interests of consumers. This will be difficult. While the pandemic has reduced this intensity of consumption, structurally, this unrivalled competitiveness of low cost commercial aviation, especially in the light of the train, if it continues, will not significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For these reasons, we will abstain from this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u116	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u117	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2190/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2190/1) the bill has 2 clauses. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u120	Madam President, I have the delicate task of presenting to you, in a lively and rapid manner, an oral report that summarizes a few hours of discussions that took place on November 30, 2021. The subject before us is a bill introduced by Minister Van der Straeten on measures taken to deal with rising energy prices. These measures are structured around three topics. The first issue concerns the extension of the social rate for persons with insufficient income. So it's an extended social rate. The second measure concerns the refinancing of CPAS and the third measure concerns the payment of a premium of EUR 80 for persons benefiting from the social rate on 30 September 2021. Following the Minister's presentation, Members were given the floor. In the case of N-VA, Mr. Bert Wollants pointed out that some of the beneficiaries of the social tariff, particularly the new entrants to the social tariff following last year's decision to increase the number of beneficiaries, were benefiting not only from this new reduction but in addition to the EUR 80. He was astonished at such generosity with these new beneficiaries. He wondered whether there was any way to make a gas plant or rather - no, Mr Wollants does not want a gas plant - to differentiate for this group. This is for Mr Wollants' first remark. Then he was surprised at the date of September 30 because, usually, a social tariff begins on the 1st day of the quarter and asked the minister about it. Finally, he also wondered whether these 16 million euros in support of CPAS and this social tariff were ultimately duplicative and whether the same public was not being helped twice, which is not necessarily the case. That is the main point made by Mr Wollants. In a second round, he also indicated that this €80 premium could be a trap for employment. This remark was challenged, since it was argued that it was a single premium and that no one would refuse a job for such an amount. Ms. Kim Buyst, for Ecolo-Groen, welcomed these provisions included in a plan to support energy-impaired people. She recalled that, in addition to social measures, structural reforms would enter into force at a later date. Consequently, she was satisfied with the development of the project in question. It also requested clarification on the circular for levers to be activated by CPAS. Mr Malik Ben Achour, for the PS, welcomed the main measures. His party considered that the refinancing of the Gaz-Electricity Social Fund was essential, as it almost doubled the resources available and demonstrated the willingness to protect those most directly affected by the price boom. It also welcomed the €80 reduction for those concerned, as this provision is part of the fight against insecurity. Mr Kurt Ravyts, for Vlaams Belang, considered that the latter measure was insufficient in view of the real increase in energy prices. It then came back with the proposal to reduce VAT to 6% on energy. He also regretted that the €80 premium would not be paid in December, but based on the date of arrival of the credit note, which might occur in 2022, although the higher VAT gain could be obtained from the 2021 budget. Thierry Warmoes, for the PTB-PVDA, found that the 16 million were a good thing, while wondering if that would be enough. He also considered that the amount of 80 euros was insufficient, which was why his party had tabled an amendment proposing a higher amount. This amendment was rejected by a majority of Members. Mr Kris Verduyckt, for Vooruit, considered that the social tariff as extended constituted a serious protection for nearly 1 million households, almost 20% of them. There were then discussions, answers and rebuttals with Mr. Wollants, saying that a trade-off was needed somewhere and that a limit was used to delimit. He said those who were just above the limit could not enjoy. He compared this to the woonbonus, which also started on a specific date. Christian Leysen, for Open Vld, said he supported the project. After a comprehensive response, Minister Van der Straeten pointed out that it was not necessary to compete with the poor against the poor, that there was no point in doing that. There were votes on the amendments; I spoke about Mr Warmoes' amendment. All the articles were discussed. Today, two sets of amendments have been tabled. The first series concerns the participation of the Federal Kyoto Fund. This participation shall be zeroed. A royal order had been made, but it must be decided by the House. This is a formal way of deciding to put this Kyoto fund to zero. The second set of amendments concerns an up-to-date situation with the collapse of Vlaamse Energieleverancier: 80 000 people find themselves without an energy supplier. They will return to Fluvius, which is the default supplier in Flanders. The 80 euros are given to the energy supplier who makes a credit note to the final recipient. When this supplier is no longer able to supply electricity, the amendment proposes not to pay that money, for example in the event of bankruptcy. Mr Wollants also proposed adding two cases in which the supplier could not be given the money: the lifting of the delivery authorisation and the denial of access to the network. These are conditions under which the supplier cannot provide its customers and in this case the Crown does not pay the amounts to the supplier. In the discussion, Mr. Warmoes of the PTB expressed concern about the fate of the people who were protected customers at the social rate at that supplier. He asked how this was going to move on to time and rate levels. The minister reassured him. The amendments were signed, one by the majority and the N-VA. They were approved and the bill was approved in committee by twelve votes in favour and three abstentions – from the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u121	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Vicaire for the detailed oral report. I think that since the last part-session we have learned about the oral reports. The provisions of the draft can be divided into provisions relating to the allocation of the EUR 80 cheque and the additional funds for the OMCWs, which were the subject of a lot of discussion, the provisions for the ratification of the Royal Decree governing the contribution to the Kyoto Fund, and, finally, the provisions relating to the granting of EUR 80, which aim at a good settlement in the context of, for example, bankruptcies, as we recently experienced in Flanders before summer in Wallonia. Of course, the allocation of the EUR 80 premium cannot be separated from the choice of intervention in energy prices by the government, which is to increase the group entitled to the social tariff. After all, we know that the government has only looked at the 18% which can now rely on the social rate and not on the other 82%. That's a statement. We have discussed this a number of times in plenary. Is that a wise choice? It is the government's choice to focus its intervention only on that group, but that means that a large group falls outside. The group that is just not eligible is not necessarily in so much better papers than the group that is eligible. That is why it is strange to say that just that group, the majority of which say that it is not fully, but significantly protected and which, through the social tariff, gets a considerable difference in electricity prices, also receives a cheque of EUR 80. During the whole discussion, I distinguish three groups. I'm not allowed to turn one group against another, I'm told, but that's what the government does. 18% of consumers with a social rate receive a cheque of 80 euros and are compared to 82% consumers who get nothing. That's weird. What are the facts? We note that whoever is protected by the social tariff, which is 8.5% of the population, after the government's intervention, sees the social rate rise. After all, due to the ceiling mechanism, every time the social rate is calculated, i.e. every quarter, a piece is added. Even when prices on the market begin to fall, the social tariff is likely to continue to rise for a number of quarters. For example, those tariffs were already increased by 27% between January and November 2021. I am based purely on the figures of the CREG, which have their limitations, but they are certainly the best comparative material today. In addition, there is the group that previously did not enjoy a social tariff, but as of February 2021 after the intervention of the government. He too has seen the price of energy evolve. Despite this draft law being drafted in the light of high energy prices, this group has seen its bill fall due to the social tariff. Depending on the situation, this is a reduction in their electricity and gas prices between 480 and 800 euros. It is not easy to explain that the group, which has already received EUR 480 to 800 from the government, which is also financed through the budget, will also receive a cheque of EUR 80 on top of that amount. Colleagues, is that logical? I don't know. Is it logical that this group, which the government believes has been spared from the biggest misery after the first quarter of 2022 and is able to go back to the market, should also receive that amount of EUR 80, whereas the group that is just above the border and which, according to the figures of the CREG, based on the figures for November 2021, will receive no more than EUR 2,000? That doesn't make any sense to me. This also means that if I earn EUR 100 too much to be entitled to the social rate, because I work part-time full-time or me and my partner, which costs EUR 100 for me EUR 2,600. That's a lot of money. Why should that amount be increased by EUR 80 for that group? I have a slight impression that the government was absolutely willing to allocate that amount of EUR 80 to a group that might be in line with a particular electoral audience. I don't know. However, that amount is paid by a group that is just above the border. We asked in committee where the EUR 80 came from and how that amount was calculated. When it was found that the amount was mainly based on the additional revenue from the VAT collected on the higher electricity and gas prices. The group of 82% that does not receive the amount will therefore pay the amount of 80 euros for the group it receives. I do not think that makes much sense again. We therefore need to think very carefully about this procedure. I indicated in committee that I believe that the measure also represents a fall in unemployment. After all, what kind of people who are now in the system are the motivation to take a job, so that they will lose a few thousand euros more and thus lose the aforementioned benefits? Someone must receive a much higher wage before he or she has eliminated that difference. After all, if you are just outside the border, you already have to earn a net extra EUR 2,600. You can count on what that gross means. There are members of the Social Affairs Committee who will be able to make the calculation better than I do. That worker must make a very large wage difference before he or she has eliminated that loss. The majority thinks that comparing the poor among themselves. However, you do the same yourself. You choose arms that belong to the 18 %. They get that, with a check for 80 euros. There are arms that don't belong there. They belong to the 82 %. They may not only pay the difference, because they pay a higher VAT, but they get nothing because of the government's choice. You should try explaining that to the bar. I can't explain that. A second element in the story is the 16 million euros used to give something to the 82% of the population who get nothing. The draft law states that the EUR 16 million must be used first and foremost for those who do not receive a social tariff. It's really hard to realize that. The EUR 16 million will be managed by the OMCWs. The government has indicated that the OMCWs are free to spend that. We do not want to check whether this EUR 16 million goes to the group that we were aiming for. The State of the Union has clearly stated that it is not true that the 82% group is not getting anything because they are getting that EUR 16 million. I asked in committee how many people are eligible for these funds from the OMCWs today. These are resources for a social preventive energy policy. Anyone who has been on a special social services committee knows what that is about. In many cases, energy-saving devices are purchased using these resources. In a number of cases it is also about paying energy debts, but not just about energy debts. At the moment we can also do other things with these resources. I asked how many people who can rely on what is sometimes referred to as the Vande Lanotte fund, Mr Verduyckt will be glad to hear it, and today they are not entitled to the social tariff. Actually, we don't know that. Madam Secretary thought that was an interesting question. So do I, but that doesn't give us an interesting answer. So I do not know whether these resources will end up in a targeted way where they were said to end up. That's a flaw in the story that hopefully we'll get data about in the future. I also reminded the Minister of the answer she would give me to my written question on who is entitled to the social rate: regional distribution, etc. I understand from the report that the answer is ready, but still has to be approved. I am therefore anxious to keep an eye on my mailbox because I suppose it could invade at any moment. Then I can submit my written question to estimate where this EUR 16 million could end up. I explained the figures used by MP Van der Straeten in committee last year. This shows that a large proportion of people can rely on the social tariff, and that a much smaller proportion is using the famous Vande Lanotte fund. However, no one can tell us whether this overlap is complete. I think that would be an interesting question. Thirdly, keeping the Kyoto Fund at zero, or at least ratifying the royal decision to do so, is, in my view, a logical step. It is indeed a pity that it has been overlooked. I look forward to being able to settle it before the end of this year. The Minister has just promised us in committee that she will work on a list of matters that we should ratify next year, and that this list will not be a Christmas present but rather be delivered by the Easter bells. This is a significant improvement compared to what has happened here in the past. I remember Secretary of State and Ministers who did such ratifications with retroactive effect and who did not dare to submit them to the Council of State out of fear about what they would have to say about them. So this is a positive evolution. Finally, I will return to the EUR 80 from the beginning of the speech. It is a good thing that we now have an arrangement to check whether the money comes from the right suppliers. Some of these suppliers, or at least one of them, are bankrupt, and this could still occur. It is not impossible for us to see again before the end of the year that a supplier falls out. Let's hope not, but one cannot rule it out. Of course, we welcome the fact that this has now been dealt with. Constructive as we are at times, we have tried to improve the amendment tabled by the majority. I am glad that we have come to an agreement there, in order to arrive at the right definition. In this respect, we are moving in the right direction, but, again, let us hope that we do not need this. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what we have said, especially the EUR 80 and the reservations we have about whether this EUR 80 should end up with those who are already seeing their tariffs or electricity bills fall by EUR 480 to EUR 800, we will abstain. There should be a proper discussion in the future as to whether this is the social policy advocated by the government. This has some very bizarre effects for those who just fall within 82% and who therefore get nothing from this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u122	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the price of energy that has been seen for several months required the government to act to protect the most vulnerable. Every family, every person must be able to warm up, eat, light up. Every person must be able to live decently. We can therefore only welcome the measures submitted today to our Assembly: the additional financing of the Gas Electricity Fund to the tune of EUR 16 million and the one-off package of EUR 80 on the energy bill of the beneficiaries of the social energy tariff. We must recall here the important role played by the Gaz Électricité Fund in the fight against energy insecurity. It enables CPAS in our country to pursue a policy of prevention by, for example, purchasing less energy-efficient and safer appliances, maintaining and aligning energy appliances, or carrying out small, medium and large-scale work to reduce energy consumption. This Fund also guarantees CPAS the ability to support and support the most disadvantaged by carrying out, after social investigation, curative actions to clear certain invoices, and by negotiating clearance plans with suppliers. The financing of the Gas Electricity Fund to the tune of EUR 16 million, by doubling the resources made available to the CPAS, will enable them to help the people most affected by the current energy crisis. As such, it joins our commitment to protect the most vulnerable households. We must also welcome the measure to ensure the protection of low-income households through the introduction of a single package for the supply of electricity. In concrete terms, this measure will result in a reduction of EUR 80 on the invoice of persons benefiting from the social rate. Together with the initiatives planned by the government, namely the enlargement and extension of the social tariff, the strengthening of the Gaz Électricité Fund or the strengthening of the protection of our citizens in the face of the increase in the down payment bill unilaterally decided by the supplier, this action must be seen as a real social advance in the context of the fight against precariousness. These are strong signals, targeted initiatives to meet the real needs of the most vulnerable audiences. Our group will therefore support the bill advocated by the Minister of Energy, but also by the Minister of Economy, the Minister for the Fight against Poverty - various ministers with various powers. I would also like to point out that these measures must not be one shot. Our fight against energy insecurity is a long-term struggle requiring more than sustained effort and vigilance. We will therefore pay close attention to the follow-up that will be given to these measures and to subsequent initiatives to ensure that the spectre of poverty is lost in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u123	Madam Secretary, we are all concerned about high energy prices. I would like to start with a quote from the CEO of the Saudi oil company Aramco, Mr Nasser, in the Financial Times. I quote: "I understand that it will be difficult for some people to publicly admit that oil and gas will play an essential and important role during the transition and beyond, but recognising this reality will be much easier than dealing with energy insecurity, unbridled inflation and social unrest if prices become unbearably high. Then we will see that countries begin to abandon their net zero obligations." This man predicts that the many green global promises will not be so easily converted into reality. What about the sky-high inflation, by the way? It has already been discussed here today, among other things with Mr Van Lommel. Since November 2020, Belgian savers have seen 20 million euros in purchasing power evaporate. Average energy prices rose by 55% in Belgium, much more than in neighbouring countries. Inflation is driven mainly by energy prices. The supply of gas from Russia remains a concern. According to experts, stocks in the EU may be well below normal levels for months to come. Madam Secretary, you will ask what the hell that has to do with this bill. Well, I fear that we could face high energy prices and, of course, high pump prices longer than the first quarter of next year. I know the Court of Auditors has already made an estimate. If the social tariff were to be granted throughout 2022, it would amount to EUR 345 million. Well, that's a challenge, isn't it? There is indeed a imminent risk of bankruptcy for some suppliers, with all possible consequences for advance invoices and accounts. I am pleased that the majority in extremes has tabled an amendment, which has been retouched with a sub-amendment by Mr Wollants, quite rightly so. Some say it's the free market that's playing here. I know that it is mostly regional matter, but I suspect that the Minister too has an opinion on this, as there are not only regional price comparison tools but also federal ones, for example the CREG scan. Madam President, it's hard to talk when Mrs. De Block is on the phone here... thank you, Mrs. De Block. Individual consumers cannot be expected to study the commercial models of cheap suppliers before they commit themselves. I would also like to ask you about this, Madam Secretary. It is a good thing that provincial governments are already taking responsibility with Green in the deputation..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Madam Minister, I now come to the bill: "This government is focusing on people suffering from energy poverty." It says "Ciblated," in the language of Molière. By the time I leave here, I'll know French. However, when we deal with the programme law in this plenum just before Christmas, and therefore with the energy standard, we will soon find that the broad middle class in this country, according to Vivaldi, has to collect. Tirez votre plan in bad French. In the communist jargon of Mr Warmoes we are talking about the broad working class. Madam Minister, the people who are just not in the extensive social tariff target group, 82% of the population, are faced with a gas price that has risen by 100 percent. The new monthly advance bill of an average family with two children heated with gas, still the majority of the population, will go very easily to 300 to 400 euros per month for electricity and gas combined. We already know that the energy standard and the introduction of special excise duties on a monthly basis are not going to bring the greatest relief for that 82%. Moreover, there is still a bit of a budgetary gap over the future financing of these excise duties, with the non-inconsiderable future CRM cost. Even if you do your best to reduce that cost, this collection capacity is obviously not enough to prevent a one-on-one payment in the invoice. When Mr Warmoes, Mr Wollants and I referred to that 82%, it seemed as if Mr Verduyckt was standing on the pulpit. In Protestant churches, the pulpit stands in the middle of the church. I paraphrase what he said: "Hang in there, dear people of the 82 % group. We do not have a social rate for you, but the solution is the Kingdom of God of 100% renewable energy, because we have to get rid of our fossil addictions." That's the message that 82 % of people get. However, there was also a confession in the Seventh Day. A certain Mr Rousseau, I do not know if you know him, implicitly acknowledged in his confession that this civilised policy, with the great budgetary effort on social rates, Madam Minister, is not blissful. Tell him it's not enough. For he asked for absolution after his confession, via the balloon of a social emergency index: to allow the lake to weigh in on lowest wages. You will wonder what that has to do with energy; well, Mr Rousseau explicitly referred to high energy prices as an alternative to his unhonored plea for a VAT rate of 6% in this respect by coalition partners. You may interrupt me if I am mistaken, but I am listening to Mr Conner Rousseau. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at this draft law, which we have approved as a matter of urgency, we must conclude, Mr Wollants, that it is, in part, the implementation of the creed that the government should not earn anything from high energy prices. Mr Rousseau and Mr Van Peteghem, among others, have said so. In order to compensate for the rise in the social tariff, since the tariff follows the commercial tariffs.... will be granted a one-off right to a flat rate of EUR 80 for the supply of electricity to the residential protected customers eligible for the social tariff on 30 September. So yes, the measure is indeed financed from the additional revenue from energy VAT in the 2021 budget. And yes, that is also the case for the second measure, amounting to EUR 16 million. However, Mr Warmoes, of course the social rate has increased a little more than the EUR 80, hence our support for the PVDA amendment in committee. It was not retabled, I believe, otherwise I would like to support it again. The social tariff for electricity increased by 216 euros for an average family compared to one year ago and 168 euros compared to the beginning of the year, not to mention the sharp increases in the social rate for natural gas. Mrs van der Straeten, perhaps some more VAT resources have been received in relation to energy than the respective EUR 72 and EUR 16 million. Mr Wollants has already said that he finds it strange that anyone who saw his invoice drop earlier this year by entering the group entitled to a social tariff will now receive another 80 euros. He considered it more equitable to grant the 80 euros exclusively to the basic group of the social tariff. That's a bit like a pancake that's turned upside down until it sees black at some point. Mr Wollants, I am concerned about the focus, the angle of view. After all, I can also say that this new second group, income-related within the social tariff, was actually entitled to the social tariff much earlier and therefore for years wrongly paid a commercial tariff. Isn't that right, Mr Warmous? At least in our view, these people have been entitled to this for a long time. This income-related application was also requested by Mrs Van der Straeten when she was not yet a minister. It has honored that, of which it is deed. Madam Secretary, now I come to the payout date. Given that this is included in the 2021 budget, this may mean that suppliers are pre-financed for this purpose. The award will automatically be made to anyone who enjoyed that rate on 30 September. Credit notes are being worked on. Suppliers will not be reimbursed for the costs associated with these additional administrative burdens. At the committee meeting, you added that suppliers will not be allowed to compensate for that credit note. The royal decision that has yet to be taken is, of course, important. The implementing decision will also talk about this. It's always been said it's a Christmas present. According to the Minister, the final beneficiaries will receive this vivaldigest before the end of winter. The exact time of dispatch of the credit note and the final date will therefore be determined by the Royal Decree. This policy does not exactly reassure suppliers. I don't mean that pejoratively, I'm just establishing that. There is a lot of consultation with FEBEG, the professional organisation concerned, on various issues. (Crying on banks) Mrs Hanus not only wants to take away our donation - I want to buy her book and have it signed - but now she wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u124	It's not Mrs. Hanus. The second measure is the one-off additional financing of the gas and electricity social fund for EUR 16 million. The OCMWs are released to apply it. That's the discretionary power. There's gonna be a letter that's gonna shed more light on that. Mr Wollants also asked in committee who is already receiving the social rate and who is not. Of course, that's an interesting question. He may have put in written questions about it. There is therefore some uncertainty about the possibility that the application of the social tariff and the Gas and Electricity Funds overlap. Madam Minister, you acknowledged that it was interesting to explore this aspect further in the light of a more structural social and energy policy. There's a commitment on your part. You have also arranged the indexation of the social fund. There won't be any more KB work. The EUR 3.4 million will be financed in a structural manner through the excise duty system. You're a very intelligent lady, but you're also a very lame lady. I've been listening to your interview in Villa Politica. At a certain point the question was asked whether the excise duties replacing the levies would still be on the invoice. You've been riding around there very handy. These journalists do not understand this rather complex operation very well and you will, of course, get away with it. However, excise duties still appear on the invoice. You neutralize the extra cost, but the excise duty comes on the invoice. It is the consumer who will still finance a large part of the federal energy policy through the allocation funds. Well, it's complicated, isn't it? We will discuss it further next week or in two weeks. Unlike Mr Wollants, we will be a little more lenient. We have not only approved the amendments, but also from the start of this draft law. We are currently campaigning for a cheaper invoice. The VAT rate of 6% remains a very good measure for those who are struggling. This bill is indeed in line with other measures on energy poverty. You also announce the increased protection of consumers, Madam Minister, against, for example, the one-sided increase in the amount of advance payments imposed by some suppliers. Within a few weeks there will be a legal basis for this, which we will therefore approve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u125	Madam President, I thank Mr Vicar for his comprehensive report. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law provides, on the one hand, for the legal basis for the granting of EUR 80 reduction to consumers at a social rate and, on the other hand, for the increase in the resources of the Gas and Electricity Fund, the Social Energy Fund, by EUR 16 million. These are cautious steps in the right direction. What the government is doing in the energy crisis is simply not enough. As I pointed out in committee last week, energy prices continue to rise. The latest CREG report shows that electricity prices rose by 15% to 24% in November and natural gas by 23% to 42% in November. That happened at a month's notice, ladies and gentlemen. According to the CREG figures, an average family already pays 2,000 euros more for its energy than at the beginning of this year. The end of that is not yet in sight either. An average family pays 1,321 euros per year for electricity and 2,830 euros per year for natural gas. At the beginning of this year it was EUR 887 for electricity and EUR 1,133 for natural gas. Madam Minister, I have pointed this out on several occasions. You don't usually respond to that. However, we will continue to say that. The blind spot in your energy policy is that you think that is not a problem for the ordinary working person. The government focuses only on the social tariff, which is an important and good measure in itself, but forget that a large part of the population - as colleagues pointed out, it is about 82% - cannot benefit from the social tariff. The two-earners, the small self-employed, the single mothers, do not get the social rate and cannot enjoy it. We have long been calling for a very simple but powerful measure at the federal level. Lower the VAT on energy to 6%. Today, an average family already earns more than 500 euros. The excuses given by the government not to lower VAT are becoming exhausted. This is borne out by the CREG report. VAT reduces the impact of current price increases on the broad working class and has a major impact on the most vulnerable. That makes sense, because they give much more of their income to energy by percentage. It is an extremely social measure, which is also perfectly affordable. The biggest taboo in our country's energy policy is hitting Electrabel's usury profits. Contrary to what some people think in their ivory tower, it will not lead to an increase in energy consumption as if people were suddenly wasting energy! We will therefore continue to repeat it, over and over again, until the government takes that measure. There is no reason to maintain the luxury rate of 21 % on energy, as applicable to caviar or champagne. Energy is a basic requirement and a right, and that is not guaranteed today. Energy has become priceless today and we ask the government to act decisively and not with small steps. The Minister refuses to do so, so we can only conclude that the energy crisis is not a priority for the government. The EUR 80 discount for those who can benefit from the social rate is also totally inadequate. The social tariff for electricity increased by 216.44 euros for an average family compared to a year ago and 168.34 euros compared to the beginning of this year. We are not talking about the sharp increase in the social tariff for natural gas. We have therefore tabled an amendment to increase the amount of EUR 80 to EUR 168,34, i.e. the increase since the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, the majority rejected that amendment, of which it is noted. It would only have been fair if the government had reversed the rise in the social rate for those who enjoy it and therefore need it financially. So that is not what we wanted to do. Even with this EUR 80, the government is not able to protect the most vulnerable, as it claims to do, because that low of the population is getting serious price increases and will have to continue to do so, as the social tariff is being increased gradually and there is therefore a time effect. It is not a structural solution either. If you do not intervene, the rate will continue to rise, because the social rate follows the commercial rates. We ask that the government block an additional increase in the social rate. We've been asking for that for a long time. We can keep asking, of course. We hope that in the end it will realise that the social tariff must remain affordable and prices must not increase. Finally, on the social energy fund, I would like to say that the draft law creates the legal basis so that EUR 16 million can go to that fund. That fund is intended for the intervention in energy costs by the OCMWs. We are, of course, very pleased with this measure. We have often knocked on the nail - the first motion for a resolution I tabled in Parliament was about that - that the fund should have sufficient resources. But I did not receive an answer in committee. Is the amount of EUR 16 million sufficient for all the social needs of the fund? After all, the fund intervenes for those who cannot pay their invoices or are in debt, but also for prevention purposes, i.e. for those families who purchase more energy efficient appliances for example for the purposes of energy efficiency. The hearings that took place almost two years ago showed that the OMCWs were the first to suffer from inadequate resources, just as the actions that are so close to the hearts of the Greens. When you asked where you got the money for the extra 16 million euros and the 80 euros discount, you answered that they come from the additional VAT revenue of the State. But they're much more, even spectacularly increased. It is not clear why 16 million is added and no more or less. I fear that much more will be needed. Madam Minister, it is significant that you do not depart from what is necessary, whether it is about the EUR 80 or that amount of EUR 16 million. You're leaving what's supposed to be available. I would remind you, therefore, of your commitment to examine, together with your colleague for the fight against poverty, Lalieux, how much resources from the fund will end up where, and repeat my question as to whether EUR 16 million is sufficient. You have not answered our question as to whether you would change the indexing mechanism of the Fund, a question which the Energy Poverty Platform has been asking for several years. One of the problems facing the fund is that the indexation mechanism does not follow the price increases of energy, especially today, and neither does the personnel costs of the OMCWs. According to that fund, which specifically addresses energy poverty, it is necessary to adapt the indexation mechanism itself, so that it would always have sufficient resources in the future. Otherwise, you will have to come up with additional resources next year. This needs to be solved in a structural manner. So my question is whether you will do anything about this. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the government's action against high energy prices is totally inadequate. Once again, we are calling for a decisive response to the price increases and for the broad working class to be protected. This draft law takes two small steps in the right direction and we will support it, even if we prefer to have big steps and a real approach, with real ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u126	Madam President, everyone is facing the energy crisis today. We are all called upon to do so, and many people are rightly concerned about it. There is much to be said about it, but I will confine myself to the essence. Soon each political group will be expected to express its opinion on the agreement reached during the budgetary negotiations, an agreement in which these measures were worked out. We had the discussion then, but I would like to repeat it again for Mr Warmoes. Everyone knows that the VAT reduction to 6% was an important starting point for us. However, we have not found a majority in the government for this and have therefore said that a few principles in this agreement are very important to us. Firstly, the added value that there is today because of the higher energy prices, that extra VAT, cannot go to the government. Secondly, we need to focus on those families that are having a particularly difficult time today. If you ask me what the two biggest challenges of our time are, these are global warming and growing inequality. In this domain one should not even do anything for the latter. If one has a poorly isolated home, then the gap increases with these prices by itself, even though the price is basically the same for everyone. That is a very important target group for us. Thirdly, consumer protection for all families is also very important. This is what we have seen this week in the bankruptcy of the Flemish Energy Supplier, which has raised a number of advance invoices from customers with a fixed contract and which may now be taking advances into the pit. The proposals on this will follow later. However, we have found these principles in this agreement and that is why we will soon give our support. The target group I mentioned is strongly protected by the social tariff and that additional contribution. I'm convinced of that, apparently unlike others. I hear the N-VA saying that there is considerable investment in certain groups. The PVDA says it's totally inadequate. The truth, of course, lies in the middle, the social tariff and the extra contribution provide a solid buffer for a million families. For me, this shows that the government can take action in the short term. Does that relieve us of the duty to also look at the longer-term impact? There is certainly an impact of the rising energy prices but also of the revival after the first corona wave, which has made many raw materials, and therefore life, much more expensive. We certainly have that duty, and it is therefore logical, Mr Ravyts, that we continue to look at mechanisms to spare the families. That is why the President-in-Office of the Council has put this one-off social emergency index on the table, so that action can also be taken in the short term. You have paraphrased me, but then you must also have the honesty to say what you paraphrase. I have spoken of short-term measures, but in the long term it is absolutely essential that we relieve the families of this fossil addiction. Why is that important? Today we are sure that only renewable energy will be affordable, clean and secure in the future. That is why it is important that we invest in this as a government. So that's about the long term. The Flemish Interest and the long term is not a good match, because on social media you don't score many likes with it. However, it is important to take this into account, which is why I mentioned it. If you paraphrase me, you'll have to say the same thing. The discussion is much broader than that and it doesn't end today either. However, I believe that this package shows that the government is putting on the table the first measures that will certainly ensure that we protect many more families in this energy crisis, which hopefully will not last too long. That is why we will support this draft, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u127	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be rather brief, since we are not meant to repeat, in plenary session, all the debates we have already had in committee. Energy prices have blazed in recent weeks, in recent months, plunging, as has been pointed out by several colleagues before me, a large number of people in difficulty. The weakest households needed to be responded to and supported. This support has been the subject of many palabres within the Vivaldi, recognizing it, each of which goes from its solution, whether one be a minister or party president and rejecting the leads put on the table by others. These debates had once again shown a very little one-sided face of Vivaldi. Finally, at the end of all these circumvolutions, several decisions were taken. Firstly, the extension of the social rate; secondly, the one-time package of 80 euros for the supply of electricity to protected customers. Of course, we fully support these two measures to support the most vulnerable households. Nevertheless, and we have been able to say so, we regret the lack of substantial measures to really support the middle class, which has its budget severely eroded by these price increases. I hear some people, often in the press, shouting their will to defend the middle class. It is even better if this will is not only godly and can materialize in acts, which is not yet the case this time. However, solutions were possible, for example via energy cheques. The aim should not necessarily be for all households to benefit from it; but certainly for those who do not fall under the social tariff conditions, because their incomes are just a little too high, but who are also faced with difficulties related to this explosion of energy costs. This is the case - and we must be aware of it, Minister - of many young households that are embarking on life, of older people or of families whose incomes do not allow you to benefit from the assistance you have set up, but who still need it. We will therefore support this project, but we cannot help but have, despite everything, a little taste of too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, without repeating all the discussions that have taken place, I would like to focus on two points concerning this draft. Firstly, with regard to the additional strengthening of the Gas Electricity Fund, I would like to point out that the Act of 4 September 2002 entrusts the CPAS with the task of providing guidance and financial social assistance in the context of the provision of energy to the most deprived persons. This aid has two objectives: on the one hand, a social and budgetary support and guidance mission for people who, in particular, have difficulties in paying their gas and electricity bills, and on the other hand, a financial assistance mission for people who, because of their debt situation, cannot cope with the payment of their energy bills. CPAS can therefore provide material assistance to households in difficulty in paying their energy bills through the Gas Electricity Fund. Unfortunately, since 1 January 2012, several royal decrees adopted annually have frozen the budget of this Fund, which was previously indexed to the consumer price index. However, my group welcomes the indexation of the Fund voted by the House, just under two years ago. In view of the increase in energy prices over the past several months, it was indeed necessary to allow CPAS to fully fulfil their mission of supporting the risk of energy insecurity for the most vulnerable people. An amount of EUR 16 million is therefore fully in line with this logic. On practical terms, we believe that the Minister's provision of a circular to the CPAS to assist them in the granting of aid is fully justified. However, the Minister first explained, with regard to the prioritization of the Fund vis-à-vis those who do not benefit from the social tariff, that "the idea is that the additional means be used for people who, for example, have an over-indebtedness problem but who are not entitled to the social tariff". In a second phase, however, emphasis is placed on the discretionary power of CPAS in this area. What, then, will be the purpose and content of the circular? Will it be a circular providing rather non-limitative indicative lines? In any event, it will be necessary to establish a clear and clear communication with regard to CPAS so that there is no disparity between the different centres and their interpretation of this directive. At the same time, we will be paying attention to these two elements, which will enable this measure of fundamental importance to be effectively implemented on the ground. In a structural way, however, some social energy funds are no longer adapted - as can be seen - to cope with changes in energy prices. Some of them need to be strengthened, as is the case in this bill, but all of these funds and their use must also be more coordinated. We therefore welcome the willingness of the Minister for the Fight against Poverty and the Minister for Energy to begin a reflection on this subject, especially since the last evaluation study of social energy funds has now taken place almost five years ago. With regard to the introduction of a one-off package of €80 for residential customers benefiting from the social rate, this measure will provide immediate assistance to many people facing the upsurge in energy prices. That's undeniable. Of course, this was raised during the discussions in committee, but this lump sum does not cover the whole increase in energy costs for those benefiting from the social tariff. The government must therefore be extremely vigilant as a result of the steady increase in energy prices and, if necessary, increase this amount very quickly. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support the measures contained in this bill, even though we still believe that Vivaldi is forgetting the middle class, which, we must recall, is also hit hard by rising energy prices. We therefore hope that these measures will be part of a broader dimension so that the number of beneficiaries is increased. In the future, we want structural solutions to be analysed and debated in order to fight more effectively against rising energy prices. I am thinking in this connection, as several experts have already regularly suggested, of the proposal to re-evaluate the share of energy costs in the calculation of the index.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u129	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u130	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2332/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2332/7) The title was amended by the commission in "Bill on measures to increase energy prices in 2021 and confirming the Royal Decree of 22 December 2020 amending the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 laying down the terms of the federal contribution for the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs related to the regulation and control of the electricity market". The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law laying down measures in the light of high energy prices in 2021 and ratifying the Royal Decree of 22 December 2020 amending the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 laying down the detailed rules on the federal contribution to the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs associated with the regulation and control of the electricity market'. the bill has 14 clauses. The draft law has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u133	Madam President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u134	Madam President, Minister, it is a bit of a fate that we may meet at late evening hours, but not only the morning but also the evening can have gold in our mouths. I promise to keep it short today, as you are used to us. As far as your draft law is concerned, I shall begin with the bad news: we shall vote against. We cannot accept the draft as it stands, not because we do not agree with the broader objective of helping more long-term sick people to work, but because we cannot agree with the government's intention to include 60 new return-to-work coordinators under the sickness fund. As you know, health insurance funds are not neutral bodies, they are the paying institutions of sickness benefits and they have no interest at all in the reintegration of long-term sick people. We are even of the opinion that the opposite is the case. Furthermore, we doubt whether these 60 TNW coordinators will succeed in taking over the task of 260 advisory doctors. We believe that letting the trails run through the TNW coordinators will lead to costly loss of time and ineffectiveness, and that is precisely what we do not need. Mr Minister, I think you have heard the bells ringing. It would still be wrong, but I fear you do not know where the clasp is. However, we have tried to guide you through the process of this bill by means of amendments, as we have done with other draft laws, but I cannot get the impression that you are not even looking at them. Your adepts in Parliament, where things are being voted on, make it a game of turning the signs to the clapper in the other direction. You are clearly going in the wrong direction. That's a bit of a thread across the whole Vivaldi government's policy. It is particularly regrettable that you and your majority have no ears to the constructive opposition that we have here. In our view, this dossier should focus more on rapid and preferably informal reintegration. An important director's role lies best with the occupational physician and the prevention services. That leaves you with it. We find little or nothing of this in the policy pursued by this government. We find this particularly regrettable, especially for those who have become ill for a long time because of circumstances beyond their control. From our party, we want to help them get back into the labour market, even in part. After all, they can quietly return to society, they can feel good again in society, instead of sitting somewhere in a corner, in the well of the long-term sick. It is a missed opportunity, which is why we cannot approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the sharp increase in the number of workers who have experienced long-term illness due to health problems in recent years is a worrying development. The reasons for this sharp increase are many. Psychosocially related problems are an important reason, but certainly not the only one. We are also thinking here of the unsolved problem of the heavy professions and of the more difficult access to the SWT, which is evident from the age structure of the long-term sick group. In order to support the reintegration into the labour market of some long-term sick people, efforts will be made with back-to-work coordinators to guide these people. This is one of a series of attempts to tackle the problem of long-term sick people. The definition of the powers of return to work coordinators is not so clear because they are in a minefield between employee and employer and their role is between the powers of the federal government on the one hand and the powers of the regions and Communities on the other. This was also noted by the Council of State. With many other players present on the playing field, such as the general practitioner, the supervisory doctor, the occupational physician, the prevention adviser, the employment services, it will therefore be important to achieve a very clear division of roles in order not to create conflicts of competence and to achieve the desired result. If this system turns out to be successful, what we can hope for is everyone who wins: the government, the employers, and certainly the employees themselves. However, the impact raises a number of problems. The sickness funds are once again the great winners of this initiative. They shall be entitled to benefit on the basis of the number of invalids they insure. The more disabled on the payroll, the more money. There is therefore yet another Community distortion. The Flemish sickness funds, which have been working with their own activation coaches for years, on the basis of previous agreements, and have achieved significant results, are now being financially punished because only the number of invalids is taken into account, and not the number of active members. The generous subsidies must not result in a reverse effect either, because in the event of too good results, there is a risk of closing down our own money supply. It is only from 2025 that the national federations will be reimbursed on the basis of the number of positive dossiers, in which there is a declaration of intent for a return to the labour market. Colleagues, this draft law also shows that the still to be recruited back to work coordinators will have two years to obtain the certificate proving their competence after their appointment. Professionalisation will therefore take a long time. In short, every effort is therefore made to ensure that the sickness funds are in line. There is no trace of the previously promised response of the sickness funds to encourage them to act actively. In this draft law, the rights of sick workers are much less clear, because the sick worker does not even have access to his file. The Court of Auditors has already made comments on this, but everything risks playing over the head of the sick worker once again, while the sick worker should be at the heart of the matter. Beware that it is not yet another administrative mill which loses sight of the objective pursued. Moreover, the question arises as to whether the sick worker will still see the forest through the trees, while someone else is showing up. A somewhat clearer structure can give those concerned a better understanding of the powers of each individual. Such a coordinator should also be able to act as a central point of contact, trying to understand the needs of the sick worker. In some cases a career switch is an opportunity to get out of the deadlock, but the return to work coordinator has no role in this, as it is a regional competence. The complex state structure ensures that this coordinator is firmly bound up at an important point. In the organisation of these coordinators, the sickness funds will have a good deal of work to do. The sickness funds will certainly have to appoint a coordinator of the coordinators in order to achieve uniformity in the approach. It is therefore a pity that the Social Security Office does not take on this coordination, all the more so because all sick workers are entitled to equal and objective treatment, regardless of whether or not the individual coordinator wants to act. An initial evaluation, in 2025, will have to show whether or not this system is working properly. The period until 2025 is still long. Nevertheless, we hope that this measure can help to solve part of the problem of the long-term sick, knowing that a great many other measures will have to be taken to tackle the problem in a structural manner. The coordinators are only a means of combating the disease, but they do not intervene in the causes of this problem. Our group will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u136	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government has set itself the goal of achieving an employment rate of 80% by 2030. To achieve this, several avenues can be explored, such as supporting the competitiveness of our companies, enhancing entrepreneurship and reintegrating long-term sick workers. It is this last point that is the subject of the bill that we are going to support today. To be precise, this is a well-defined part of a more general reform that relates to the return to work and concerns several members of the government. Minister, this evening's chapter deals with the follow-up - which will now be provided by mutual societies - of long-term sick workers who wish to or request it in their transition to a job adapted to their abilities and needs. This is a complete paradigm shift, in which the worker is no longer regarded as sick, since it is on his still present abilities that one now lingers. I can only welcome such a positive approach. To achieve this, insurers will use 60 return-to-work coordinators, whose mission will be to help volunteer workers return to the labour market more quickly, but also in a more targeted way. To this end, the draft law regulates the tasks entrusted to medical consultants and defines the tasks which will now be carried out by return-to-work coordinators. Budgets for the years 2022 to 2024 are defined in the bill. I am also pleased, Minister, that an evaluation of the coordinators' work is already planned. In this way, we can not only draw the statistical lessons from it, but also adapt, supplement or even adjust the policy for the reintegration of long-term patients, in order to make this policy efficient. This is therefore the first part of this reform, for which my group and I will fully support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u137	Madam President, it is no secret to anyone: when the MR defends such a project at this point, as a left-wing party there are already many questions before anything is said about the substance of the case. Mr Minister, we have had a lot of opportunities to talk about this, either you and me or you and my colleague in committee. A society that includes more or less 500 long-term patients, for us, is a sick society. The first criticism of this approach is that we want first to address the causes of these diseases and why people get there. We want to solve the problem at the root and there are several elements to be taken into account in this regard. Indeed, the work must be emancipatory for the class of workers. Here, we see that work, instead of being emancipator, plays a negative role in the health of workers and makes them sick. I want to put several things forward. First of all, there is the issue of overburdening; I spare you the list of economic sectors where such a burden, first of all physical, exists. I am thinking of all the logistics and distribution sectors. There is also all the mental overload, with pressure at work, obligations for results, flexibility, insecurity in relation to work, etc. On these issues, the employment policy of your colleague, Minister Dermagne, does not play his part and does not solve the problem at the root. On the contrary, the work is even more flexible and the snake eats its tail a little bit. A second problem is that it is difficult to combine work with family life. I am, of course, thinking particularly of women, when it comes to raising young children. Again, the policy notes do not show sufficient investment. We believe that the first investments must be made in public infrastructure to ensure that there are places for our children to be cared for. Of course, I am passing on to you the details, which are not one of them, of flexible working hours which do not correspond to those of the childcare facilities that exist today. The third point I want to highlight is the fact that the previous government and this one remain in a logistics that aims to make people work longer. It can be seen that many of the long-term patients are people who are already a certain age. We also have a study done with our medical homes, with our patients. It can be seen that physical workers begin to have chronic problems at the age of 50. It is not, of course, by extending the career of workers that the number of sick people will be reduced. Today, we are facing a bill that starts from the fact that there are sick people and aims to establish a return to work route under the coordination of coordinators Back to Work. A new function is created. To remove any ambiguity, I would point out that these are not doctors. These coordinators will work in collaboration with medical consultants and mutuals, but their role is to get as many people back to work as possible. The only point I agree with my colleague, Mr Bombled, is that the aim of this text is to respond to the employers' challenge of achieving an employment rate of 80%. In order to achieve this, as there are not yet enough unemployed people, we must go to the reserve of the sick! So these coordinators have the purpose of getting people back to work. Some sentences appearing in this project could agree with us if they had come out of our global vision. It is said that good work must be done because it has a positive effect on health. We agree on this, but we think it would be appropriate to take stock of the experiences of social reintegration. So far, reintegration journeys have been associated with people returning to work in the same employment contract. Here, we go further by allowing people to get back to work in another job. This could be positive, but will the reality be that? Indeed, it can also be said that "the shortage creates opportunities". It caught me. I've consulted the long list of jobs in need. I stopped working as a bus driver. A friend of mine who's been working at a bank for 20 years is in burn-out. I hope that as part of the journey, we will not offer him to become a coach driver. That's not exactly what he wants to do. Then I saw the Horeca area. Let's take this 42-year-old nurse who, working in a nursing and nursing home, is already broken from all over the world because of her hard work. Will she have to work in a restaurant? I repeat once again that we do not deny that some people will be able to return to work and well-being thanks to more active support. However, you do not take stock of what already exists. You're talking about a good job. Nor should we end up with a third-time job that would not allow people to live in dignity. This does not meet the notion of good work. We can have a job that is good for health but that, in fact, does not allow us to lead a dignified life. We are talking about one part of this whole problem; there will be others. In this case, we have no guarantee at all as to the absence of sanctions. On the contrary, we now know that there will be sanctions, but certainly not in the first nine months. We are waiting to discover in another aspect the sanctions for employers. We are also very concerned about the health of the coordinators, who may risk a burn-out. They will have goals to achieve. They will be between people who want to work again, those for whom it is too difficult because they are too sick and bosses who will not always work very well. You will have understood, minister, that we have serious doubts about this project. For all these reasons, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u138	The federal government agreement expresses the ambition to achieve an activity rate of 80% by 2030. We also need them to ensure our prosperity and social security. In order to achieve this objective, it is not enough to focus solely on the official jobseekers; the level of inactivity, which is above average in our country, must also be addressed. In our country, 25.1 % of the population aged between 20 and 64 is currently inactive, which means that these people are not, not yet or no longer available for the labour market. It's a heterogeneous group. The level of effectiveness and the level of activity can only increase substantially if we also make progress in the vulnerable groups. More people at work is a good thing for everyone. First of all, this is a good thing for the person concerned: work gives many people a sense of life; it makes people appreciate themselves with others, it gives structure to the day and provides social contacts. Secondly, that is a good thing for our economy: a lot of companies are looking for new colleagues because of the tight labour market. Finally, our social security also needs a lot of weighty shoulders. She's a strong safety net to catch who's unlucky. However, in order to keep them sustainable, sufficient people must be able to contribute. A lot of people who are inactive at the moment are willing to work. However, there are often a lot of obstacles and one of them is the health of those involved. The way in which we deal with our long-term sick can certainly be improved. People who are inactive in the labour market but still able to carry out meaningful work should be encouraged and helped to take the step towards work. In order to remove a possible misunderstanding immediately, it is not intended to force all long-term sick people to work full-time. Those who are determined to have a permanent disability for the labour market have neither the intention nor the point of considering reintegration pathways. A witch hunt is certainly not the issue. However, it is intended to examine from when, at what rate and under what conditions long-term sick who are not permanently unfit for the labour market, can resume their previous job or possibly another job. Contrary to what is sometimes accepted, the vast majority of the sick really want to get back to work. For a lot of them, staying inactive is not at all what they want. The reintegration paths were set up by Minister De Block during the previous reign. The coalition agreement agreed to further strengthen the policy of reintegration. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has worked towards better streamlining through back-to-work coordinators. They must ensure more efficient federal and regional services. The design isn't on its own. It is part of a broader agreement reached by the government, an ambitious and balanced agreement that addresses all actors, from the disabled to the employers, the doctors concerned and the sickness funds. In doing so, we are opting for the multidisciplinary approach that is so necessary. The aim is to act quickly in the event of incapacity for work, in consultation with the Länder, which is important for the journey, so as not to break the link between the worker and the workplace or the labour market. Prevention has already been highlighted by several colleagues, including in committee - an essential part of a solution to the problem. A policy in this area should prevent workers from becoming ill for a long time. Finally, we welcome an evaluation of the project. For example, it is necessary to check whether the number of coordinators, initially 40 and over time 60, is sufficient to follow up all the long-term sick. The aim must be to reduce the number of long-term incapacityes for work in the interests of themselves and our society. Our group will therefore vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u139	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, prevention is indeed very important. I have just indicated that the workload is enormous. However, the policy papers also mention that various plans for mental resilience at work are being worked on together with Minister Dermagne. Work is also under way on the welfare bill. On the other hand, I also hear talk here about the combination of work and family. We have extended birth leave and we are working on the right to inaccessibility. Mrs Moscufo, when it comes to childcare, which is very important, I repeat what I said earlier. We raise minimum wages and strengthen net incomes. This is important to make the profession more attractive. However, there are also many other aspects that can make the profession even more attractive, which can lead to more places. However, let that be the responsibility of the regions. That's my first answer. About the present draft law, I heard that the back-to-work coordinators are replacing the occupational doctors and supervisory doctors. So they must be some kind of superheroes. However, these are coordinators and not substitutes. It is precisely people who bring together all the parties involved in order to ensure that the process of reintegration is smooth. That is precisely the problem today, namely that many interested parties are each in their corners, probably with the best intentions, and in their own way, sometimes almost with blinders, helping people from their point of view. The result is that long-term sick or people who suffer the consequences of long-term illness are sent from one to another and from the locker to the wall. However, they will never receive a concrete answer to the question of how their re-integration process can proceed in a smooth, flexible, good and human way. In this respect, the return-to-work coordinators are making a difference. What Mrs De Jonge has noticed is true. Work is particularly important for people, including those who have been ill for a long time. They want to get their place back in society and want us to appreciate them for what they can do. Sometimes they want to be able to experience their passion again. Mrs. Moscufo, you mentioned a friend. You guys always have a lot of friends, and I have a lot of friends. I have a sister-in-law, an emergency nurse, who, after chemotherapy, still bears the consequences. She is now often sent from the cabinet to the wall. Minister, she is very much looking forward to the return to work coordinators and to the day when we adopt this measure here, so that she can relive her passion, which is her profession for her, so that she can be back in the emergency room and help people. For these reasons, Minister, our group is also very enthusiastically approving your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u140	Madam President, first of all I would like to repeat what Mr Bombled said correctly: this project is part of a whole. It must be assessed as such. It is really a paradigm shift, a change of culture in the head of the doctors concerned and in the functioning of the mutuals, in the employers and for each person concerned. As Mr Bombled has also said, we deliberately want a positive approach. It's a bet and we'll have to evaluate how it works. Mrs. Moscufo, I listened to you very well. There are, of course, fundamental problems: stress, burn-out. But you cannot say that the government is completely silent. For example, we organized a campaign with Ministers Clarinval, Dermagne, De Sutter and myself on burn-out and stress, a campaign to support the development of more resilience and the promotion of aid structures. Campaigns are being organized, with concrete proposals that are not in this bill. In the program law, we propose a mechanism for financial accountability of employers. It is clearly stated that if additional contributions are paid by employers as part of this accountability, the aim is, among other things, to use these means to strengthen prevention policies in enterprises. It is therefore clear that there is a link, but this must be seen in its entirety. I do not understand when you say that it is a project that has only a purely economic vision of work. That's not the case! I would like to take the example of Mrs Vanrobaeys. This may be an anecdote, but it's important. There are people for whom the prospect of being able to return to work is part of their healing. It is therefore not just an economic or budgetary return. As Minister of Health, I'm not really interested. I'm interested in people's health. Many are those for whom the prospect of a return to work, if only partially, is an element of a healing trajectory or that allows them to live with a chronic disease, with their remaining abilities. As a result, the view that any idea of returning to work is contradictory to a vision of health is completely false. Mrs De Jonge and Mrs Vanrobaeys referred to the debate we had in committee. Mr Van der Donkt, these back-to-work coordinators do not take over the work of the counsellors of the sickness funds. You said that almost literally and did not think it possible for 60 people to take over the duties of 240 doctors. It certainly isn't. This is complementary. We believe that we are filling an essential gap at the federal level with regard to coordination, pointing people out, giving a face to what is happening with the mutualities. After all, it is not so easy today to know who is working on a doctor's or patient's file. We also want to give a face to those institutions with easily contactable people. This is therefore complementary and fills an essential gap. In committee, I also explained why I think it is logical to place these people with the sickness funds. Hospital funds are also being a bit responsive in this respect. Mr van der Donkt, you said that the director's role should be with the occupational doctor or the prevention service. That's just too short a turn. People can ideally return to their work from before. However, for a number of people this is not possible, not easy or not desirable. They may have opportunities elsewhere, with another employer. That must also be established quickly enough. That is also one of Mrs Crevits' specific questions. As Flemish Minister responsible for Employment and Vocational Training, she asks for help with an approach that we play briefly on the ball, quickly picking up people, finding out that someone may have opportunities for work, but not with the employer he comes from. Of course, a director's role must be placed on someone who is not only working at that one workshop or that one company, but who can see the broader picture of possible opportunities. That is exactly the role of the back-to-work coordinator. There is therefore no unique director role at the occupational doctor or the prevention service. There is an important director's role and responsibility with those people for the company or workshop from which the person concerned comes. In many cases, however, the solutions will not just be there. Madam President, I will conclude. We have already discussed these issues in the Committee on Health and in the Committee on Social Affairs. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have already had very rich debates on this subject on the basis of oral questions. We are now gradually setting up a series of measures. There's this bill and there's the program law. We also expect a very important additional piece of work from my colleague, Mr Dermagne, and additional efforts by my colleague, Mr Clarinval, to ensure a better approach to reintegration at work and to ensure that people with self-employed activities due to long-term illness get more prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u141	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u142	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2313/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2313/4) the bill has 6 articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip145x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Colleagues, before continuing our agenda, the services ask me for a brief technical break of 10 to 15 minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 9, 2021 at 8:30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 December 2021 at 8.30 p.m.
