ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, when a consumer moves, his car insurer can charge him a higher premium. This can be legitimate because of the statistical determination of the number of accidents in certain municipalities. Each insurer links the amount of the premium to a certain extent to the zip code, although this varies from insurer to insurer. The consumer chooses his insurer, of course, on the basis of the rates applicable to the municipality where he resides when he takes out the insurance. It is therefore logical for a consumer to have the right to move to another insurer if his rates are more advantageous for the new municipality. The insurer is obliged to make a proposal to the policy holder before a higher premium can be charged. The policy holder must give his agreement or can then switch to another insurer. Test-Achats, however, notes that insurers do not always apply this principle. More importantly, some spell out clauses that are contrary to the law and make it appear that the policy holder must accept the amended premium. Madam Secretary of State, I have a few questions about this. Firstly, how many complaints have been received in recent years by the Insurance Ombudsman, specifically regarding premium increases after a move? Secondly, do you believe that insurers comply adequately with their obligations to segment insurance rates? Does the FSMA exercise sufficient control over this? Will you make a stronger commitment to this, taking into account the evolution of the number of complaints? Thirdly, the scope of the laws on segmentation can be extended by royal decree. Do you not think it is appropriate to do this, for example for the omnium coverage, the premium of which is usually higher than that of liability coverage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u2	Mr Vanbesien, the complaints about premium increases following a move received from the Insurance Ombudsman in the last four years are so small in number that they do not allow certain conclusions to be made. I would remind you that the FSMA does not have control powers a priori with regard to insurance. This means, inter alia, that insurance documents should not be checked before they are used by insurers. An insurer may use the residence of a policy holder as a segmentation criterion for charging. For car civil liability insurance, the segmentation criteria should be published on the website. A move may add to the risk. Article 46 (2) of the Act of 4 April 2014 on Insurance provides that the insurer who decides to provide the policy holder with a proposal to change the tariff conditions during the duration of a contract due to a change of risk must make it explicitly in writing and in a reasoned manner. The FSMA is not competent to supervise the management of individual files and cannot therefore, in this particular case, assess the way in which the removal of an policyholder is reflected in the adjustment of the premium for car or omnium civil liability. The power to deal with complaints is conferred on the Insurance Ombudsman, who has not asked the FSMA to pay particular attention to the issue of the application of the rules on segmentation criteria and increased risk. The FSMA has not yet carried out any specific checks on this issue, including because no specific problems have been identified and also because the risk-based selection of companies or products to be controlled did not indicate that the practice would pose a risk. Should the FSMA be given evidence of a significant increase in the number of complaints in this area, it may undertake targeted ad hoc controls or, where necessary, extend existing control procedures to such products or practices. However, these indications, which could be based, inter alia, on complaints received, are not at present available for the application of Articles 45 and 46 on the segmentation criteria and Article 81 (1) on the increase of risk under the Law of 4 April 2014. Given the limited number of reports and complaints as well as the lack of clarity as to the number of incidents or infringements of the law, it does not seem appropriate to me to take legal action at this time. I would rather leave it to the competent services to act against offenders whenever necessary, for the benefit of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer. If this is an existing practice, we must indeed be strict. After all, deliberately fooling people is laughable. However, I do agree that we should first objectify the figures. Your figures show that the problem is rather small. I will contact the organisation that alerted me to the issue in order to see how we can objectify the figures. If necessary, we can then pull the alarm bell.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vanbesien has one more question, but he will have to go to the Comparability Committee shortly for a physical meeting. If everyone agrees, I would like him to ask his question first. I see the two people in attendance nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, your policy statement states that you want to take more active action against misleading advertising such as greenwashing. A large majority of our citizens want to live more ecologically, but they do not always have the right resources and information to do so. Not only is it very difficult to know which is the most sustainable choice, but everything is made even more difficult by the use of misleading advertising and product labelling by companies. Both worldwide and in Europe it appears that about 40% of companies' environmental claims are exaggerated, wrong or misleading. So there really is a big problem. Test-Purchasing recently examined the advertising of dishwashing products and concluded that different products were subject to the most literal form of greenwashing. For example, the phosphate-free label was used, while phosphates have been banned since 2017. A logo was also used that was granted on a voluntary basis by detergents manufacturers on the basis of the achievement of vaguely formulated objectives set out in a charter drawn up by themselves. The consumer organisation, together with its European sister organisations, proposes to counter the proliferation of environmental claims and labels by banning all misleading environmental claims and introducing strict conditions to facilitate the recognition of reliable labels. Madam Secretary of State, what are your plans to take more active action against greenwashing? Which public bodies will play a more active role in this and how will this happen? In addition to the transposition and implementation of European legislation against greenwashing, will you also take initiatives of your own? In the second quarter of this year, the European Commission would propose legislation on the basis of sustainability claims. What causes the postponement of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u6	Mr Vanbesien, environmental advertising is a commercial practice regulated by sector-specific Belgian and European legislation or, in the absence thereof, by Articles 6.93 et seq. of the Code of Economic Law concerning the prohibition of unfair and misleading commercial practices, which transpose the relevant provisions of the European Directive on Unfair Commercial Practices into Belgian law. The principle of maximum harmonisation of that directive does not allow Member States to take stricter initiatives. In addition to this general legal framework, the FPS Economy has, in line with the example of other Member States, developed a guidance for companies with a view to fair environmental claims. It introduces good practices for advertisers and businesses who wish to avoid greenwashing in their commercial communications from the outset. This should ensure that consumers are properly and transparently informed. This guidance is also useful for the Economic Inspectorate, which is responsible for monitoring the application of the above-mentioned legal provisions, as these elements provide an assessment of whether or not their environmental claim is misleading. The guide to good practice on environmental claims has recently been published on the website of the FPS Economy. In the context of the Green Deal and the new circular economy action plan, I believe that the European Commission will only announce two regulatory initiatives by the end of the year to encourage consumers to make sustainable choices based on reliable, comparable and verifiable information. According to this information, therefore, there is no delay yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, we know that many people genuinely want to contribute to a less polluted planet and that they are often misguided by misleading terms and labels deliberately used by manufacturers. If we take initiatives, such as making that guidance more public so that consumers can encourage businesses to comply with it, people who deliberately want to choose a more sustainable product will also effectively go home with a more sustainable product.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u8	Questions Nos 55018748C, 55019333C and 55019761C by Mrs Dierick are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u9	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is not recent; it is a few weeks ago. This is the We Are One advertising campaign that has been very strong on social networks with sponsored publications. It was linked to the participation of the Red Devils in the Euro, which unfortunately ended too early, but it is life and sport. More seriously, this campaign promised a free Belgian flag by registering on the site, but also proposed to order t-shirts or masks in the colours of Belgium, all with a small star on each product. So far, nothing great. Except that if you go down the bottom of the website, after an encouragement to share the initiative via photos on social networks, you can read that "We Are One is an initiative of the PTB". No party name or logo, just a small line at the end of the page, the same end of page often hidden by the banner asking you to accept cookies. Many questions were raised about the lack of transparency with which the PTB party promoted this campaign on social networks. Facebook has put all sponsored publications offline until We Are One clearly indicates that the transaction was funded by the PTB. In our view, this advertising campaign raises many questions and is nonsense in many respects, particularly in terms of transparency. The fact of selling products to citizens with the logo of a political party by hiding that origin is obviously not clear. It is also about consumer protection and privacy. With regard to consumer protection, the Code of Economic Law contains provisions protecting consumers from misleading commercial practices. If, since the campaign was launched, a tab has been added with more information on the origin of the initiative and a link to the PTB website, it remains discreet. Many actions are requested from the consumer so that he can know the identity of the political party at the manoeuvring in this commercial and marketing action. Madam Secretary of State, what is in place so that this kind of political party-funded advertising campaign can no longer take place? What are we going to do to regulate such a practice, which does not allow any transparency for consumers? What are your levers for action in relation to publications on social networks, with a view to protecting consumers? We know it's not always easy, especially at the Belgian level. Are transparency guidelines discussed with stakeholders on platforms and social networks, and perhaps also between political parties? We believe that it is also the responsibility of political parties to behave ethically. Here, clearly, that was not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u10	Mr Vanden Burre, your question is relevant. As regards the sale of merchandising goods, a political party seems to fall within the category of enterprise, according to Book VI, Consumer Protection, of the Code of Economic Law. The definition of the concept of an undertaking mentions two criteria for an entity to qualify as an undertaking: in a sustainable way and with an economic aim. Economic activity means the supply of goods or services in a specific market. The legal form on the basis of which this takes place is not relevant, as is the way in which the activities are financed and the existence of a profit-making purpose. The explanatory memorandum of the former Law of 6 April 2010 on market practices expressly states that public bodies are undertakings with regard to their activities which are not part of their legal mission of general interest. If an authority can be regarded as an enterprise, the same reasoning can, in my view, be applied to political parties. Through the sale of merchandising, the political party aims at an economic object in a lasting way that has no relation to its status as a political party. With this activity, it competes with other market participants who sell similar goods. The argument that this activity is carried out by a political party is not sufficient to exclude the application of Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. In accordance with Book VI, Market Practices and Consumer Protection of the Code of Economic Law, an enterprise must comply with the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, specifically the prohibition of misleading commercial practices. A commercial practice may also be considered misleading if the information is factually correct but induces or is likely to mislead the average consumer in any way, including through their general presentation, and leads or is likely to lead him to make a commercial decision which he would not otherwise have made. The Economic Inspectorate has not received any reports of this practice through its point of contact and has not conducted any investigations. As reported in the media, I fully support Facebook's request to make it clear that it was a political announcement. In the European Union, Facebook requires that advertisements relating to a social, electoral or political issue be clearly indicated as such with the name and entity that paid for these ads. With regard to controls a priori by online platforms, the e-Commerce Directive as transposed in Book VII of the Code of Economic Law clearly states that there is currently no monitoring obligation for hosting platforms to exercise prior control over content placed by third parties. However, they must act promptly a posteriori when they are aware of an illegal activity or information. In future law, the Digital Service Act (DSA), currently under discussion at European level, provides for a series of measures to strengthen transparency requirements for platforms. The DSA – and its new obligations – are, however, addressed directly to intermediary services such as social networks themselves and not to advertisers who offer their services via these platforms. The DSA will, on the other hand, make it possible to improve the fight against illegal advertising, in particular through the mandatory introduction of an improved system of notice and action accessible to all and the possibility for the competent Belgian authorities to issue a withdrawal order to the platform in question even if it is established abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your specific answers. The subject is worth it. Here, it took Facebook's intervention for the campaign to first clarify things and then stop. It's a good decision, but I'm disturbed by the fact that Facebook made it. I would have liked it to be a democratic state through legislation or regulation, ideally European. We see that some parties, in this case the PTB, take advantage of this blur, of this grey area, of letting Facebook go so as not to be transparent and to deceive citizens through commercial practices to make them voters. For us, this is completely ethically unacceptable. There is no problem in advertising for a political party on the Internet, but it must be clear and transparent and labels must be indicated. We will return to this issue because we believe it is fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55019158C by Mr Jef Van den Bergh is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, about the barrier period, I request some figures from the period 2018 to 2021, including the number of complaints about the barrier period, infringements, dismissed complaints and any sanctions. I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u14	Mrs Verhelst, each year the Economic Inspectorate receives only a limited number of reports concerning the barrier period. From 2018 to today, only 24 notifications were submitted. Effective infringements were identified in 4 of those reports. The remaining 20 notifications have not revealed any infringements. The Economic Inspection shall closely monitor compliance with the legislation on misleading commercial practices during both the barrier period and the selling period. It does so by monitoring the notifications as a matter of priority and by carrying out proactive investigations during the solder period, carrying out targeted investigations into the reality of selling prices and checking whether misleading commercial practices are not applied. An infringement of the prohibition period can be sanctioned with a fine of at least 208 euros and up to 80,000 euros. There is one well-known case of a fashion chain that systematically fails to comply with the rules on the barrier period. The Economic Inspectorate has drawn up a report on a regular basis and delivered it to the competent court. Infringements on the barrier period are reported mainly by private individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u15	Madam Secretary, can you send me the answer in writing? I could only listen to the French translation. [[Applause from the left]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u16	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, following the government's decisions on company electric cars, we will soon see more and more electric cars on our streets. Suppliers' catalogues inform customers about engine consumption every 100 km. The numbers are impressive. They indicate that the efficiency of electric motors is particularly favourable with, in general, less than 20 kWh/100 km, i.e. less than 2 litres of petrol per 100 km. However, manufacturers, as well as car critics, seem to ignore the second principle of thermodynamics for batteries. For a battery to deliver 10 kWh to the engine, it must be given between 22.2 kWh and 13.5 kWh when charging. Indeed, the battery itself has an efficiency that ranges from 45% to 75%. This changes everything for the consumer who pays the energy he buys to charge his battery. This is not the case for petrol cars, where what comes into the tank is equal to what comes out of it, otherwise, it smells very bad. It therefore seems to me that the information provided to consumers is incomplete and that the absence of this information does not prompt manufacturers to improve this part of the vehicle value chain. Madam Secretary of State, why is this information not available at a glance on car manufacturers' leaflets? Can you require this information to appear, as well as consumption per 100 km? If this complicates the information for consumers too much, can you ask manufacturers to indicate the load needed to drive 100 km rather than the consumption per 100 km? Do you think that mentioning both the consumption per 100 km and the load required per 100 km would be a solution to inform consumers in an enlightened way? Can you intervene at European level to ensure that this information is standardised across the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the question of the actual consumption of electric cars and the efficiency of batteries concerns electric vehicles for which there may be specific legislation, it is useful to check whether this loss of battery energy is not already taken into account in the data to be supplied to the consumer. This question, however, falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister for Mobility. As far as my competence is concerned, I can refer in general to Book VI of the Code of Economic Law, which already protects the consumer by providing for a pre-contractual information obligation. In fact, the undertaking must give the consumer a certain amount of information, including the main characteristics of the product, before the conclusion of the contract. In addition, Book VI of the Code of Economic Law prohibits misleading commercial practices. This refers to the transmission of false information and/or which induces or is likely to mislead the consumer. Deceptive omissions are also prohibited, either when an undertaking omits or conceals substantial information that the average consumer needs to make a commercial decision, such as the main characteristics of a product. Information on the consumption of an electric vehicle may be considered to be part of the main characteristics of the product. In this case, they must be supplied to the consumer. With regard to the correct price statement for the consumer, as for all goods offered for sale, it should also indicate the price including VAT for the sale of electric used cars. The Economic Inspectorate receives only a limited number of reports each year on unclear and ambiguous price indications in the second-hand car sector. In 2018, there were 12 notifications, 7 notifications in 2019 and 7 notifications in 2020. For the time being, in 2021, there will be 3 notifications. These are reports of unclear price indications in the second-hand car sector in general. This does not specify whether electric cars are involved. Moreover, the proactive investigations carried out by the Economic Inspectorate in the framework of its annual action plan do not show that such a problem arises. The Economic Inspectorate does not currently have any indications that there are problems with the sale of electric cars in general, nor with price formation and price comparison in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, the most important thing is that the problem is apparently not that big. I hope that this issue will continue to be followed up in the future. It's still a new market. Perhaps there will be a need for follow-up later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe this is a misleading omission. This is all the more a pity because in the end, by mentioning the total value consumed, manufacturers will in the future be able to improve battery efficiency, which currently ranges from 45 to 75 %. The margin of progress is therefore enormous. This is a problem that is not yet worrying because there are few electric cars on the market, but this problem is going to grow. In any event, I will also ask Minister Gilkinet the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, three out of four removal companies are advertising activities that catalog under the activities of a moving company, but are apparently not officially a moving company. Sector representatives report that this leads to too often leaving consumers or customers to the company's arbitrariness. Are you aware of that? Will you do anything about that? Are you planning new legislative initiatives? What ministers are involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, I am aware of these problems. The Economic Inspectorate receives regular reports on relocation companies. It concerns about a dozen reports per year. The reports on relocation companies are being examined by the Economic Inspectorate. Inspections in this sector are also carried out by the economic inspection officers on their own initiative. During an audit, it will be examined, inter alia, whether the company is registered in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, whether the company has registered the activity of relocation companies in the CBO, whether the website and Facebook page, if any, contain infringements of the Economic Law Code and whether the company has the required transport permits. If this is not the case, this is reported to the FPS Mobility, which in turn initiates an investigation. Indeed, this problem also arises in a number of other sectors, particularly in the sector of urgent recovery services, i.e. plumbers, locksmiths, electricians, plungers and the like. In some of these sectors initiatives have already been taken to address the problem, for example by drawing up a code of conduct for locksmiths.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, it is important that measures are taken. In other sectors, such as urgent repairs, there are already actions. Perhaps they could be extended further or you could take an initiative. I'd like more information if there were any.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55019296C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55019333C has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u24	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the noise went away for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u26	We'll take a look at it. We'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u27	Colleagues, if technically everything is in order, we can continue the questioning session. Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Van Bossuyt referred to her written question. I am happy to give you the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u28	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have indeed taken note of the Ombudsman's annual report. The insurance law of 4 April 2014 provides for a general rule for the interpretation of insurance contracts. Article 23 therefore provides that the general, special and special conditions, the insurance contracts as a whole and all clauses must be drawn up separately in clear and precise terms. They shall not contain any clause which infringes the equivalence between the obligations of the insurer and those of the policy holder. In case of doubt as to the meaning of a clause, the most favourable interpretation for the policy holder shall prevail in all cases. If the policy holder and the insured person are not the same person, the most favourable interpretation for the insured person shall prevail. The insurance sector is aware of the need to simplify communication for consumers and is currently working to improve this situation. Assuralia has set up a specific working group Klare Taal. The aim of the working group is to promote clear language in dealing with insured persons and rightholders. The working group addresses actions within insurance undertakings and, by extension, intermediaries involved in direct communication to the consumer, i.e. the insured person, the beneficiary, the victim and the witness. There is also a desire to integrate the principles of clear language into training for all those in contact with the public. The working group also aspires to the start-up of a uniform insurance flexicon, available to each insurance undertaking, with the aim of achieving an accessible and accessible standard language so that consumers can easily understand the information. At the end of this year, the working group will present concrete proposals at sector level. In the event of disagreement between the policyholder and the insurer about the interpretation of the contract terms, the insurer's complaint service will examine the policy holder's claim for damages. The policy holder may always appeal to the insurance ombudsman and, if necessary, to the court. I have taken note of the discussions currently taking place within Assuralia. Following the introduction of the lexicon, it can be assessed whether further measures are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, as you yourself say, we need clear and precise wording. It is very important that, in the event of doubt or disagreement between the policy holder and the insured person, the most favourable interpretation is used. Your answer shows that the focus should be on clear language so that a consumer can understand what it is about. However, as I pointed out in my question, cover for an insipulation via a joint between a flat roof and a wall is refused because only seeping is covered through the roof. It is therefore more about technical matters, which are then interpreted very restrictively. A consumer will understand the word "roof," but if there is an insipulation through a joint between a flat roof and a wall, the insurer will interpret this very restrictively and state that this is not covered. It is a good thing that clear language is being worked on, but I believe that this is a different element from plain language. It is more about how that clear language is interpreted. That is why I asked for a lexicon of the technical concepts. I believe there is a need for that. For example, if it is said that insipulation is covered via the roof, it may or may not also be about insipulation via a joint between the flat roof and a wall. This is very important for the legal certainty of consumers and also in order to avoid any misunderstandings. I hope that this will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u31	Ms Van Bossuyt, in the Ombudsman's annual report 2018 it was said that fire insurers established should better inform insured persons about expertise. Assuralia investigated the lack of transparency and this resulted in a general information sheet expertise. The purpose of this sheet is to inform insured persons better about the purpose and progress of the expertise, the measures best taken by the victim in the run-up to an expertise, the contact persons to whom the victim can call for assistance and explanations, among other things. The fact sheet meets the need to better inform the insured person during all stages of the handling of a claim. The general expert information sheet is posted on the abcverzekering.be website of Assuralia. In the first instance, the consumer should call on his intermediary or legal aid insurer to assist him, as that is his role. In concrete terms, the expert, together with the consumer, will estimate the extent of the damage on behalf of the insurer. Apart from the technical expertise report, which the expert prepares on behalf of the insurer, including the circumstances of the damage, the identification and description of the damage, the expert will, if he has the necessary elements, draw up an estimate report with the various damages and the corresponding amounts. That estimation report should be signed. The consumer has some reflection time to consult his insurer or intermediary for additional information. The final decision on the cover of the damage lies with the insurer. The insurer will determine the final amount of the fee on the basis of the technical expertise report and the estimation report under the terms of the insurance contract. I would also draw your attention to the fact that several insurance companies offer repairs in kind. In the event of damage, the insurance company will send professionals on the spot to repair the damage. I will ask Assuralia to bring the themes to the attention of insurers and their experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is certainly a good thing that there is a framework for the expert reports, so that it is something and how it is clear to everyone. I have not heard explicitly what period of reflection applies after the friendly assessment of the damage. You have said that the company must decide for itself. In practice, according to the Ombudsman's report, we hear that there is not always a reflection period and that the experts sometimes act in the place of the company or communicate their assessment report to those involved. This creates the necessary confusion, because consumers interpret the assessment report as a final report. The better framework of expertise requires a clear division of roles between the expert and the insurer, as the latter takes the final decision. The consumer must also be given the necessary consideration after the friendly assessment of the damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have taken note of the annual report of the Ombudsman for Insurance and have read it carefully. The administration did not receive direct reports of the problems you raise. In principle, the policy holder is responsible for terminating an insurance contract. In the event of a change of insurer, the new insurer or intermediary may offer to take on the formalities for the termination of the current contract with the old insurer. In that case, an agreement between insurers provides for more flexible rules on the forms of cancellation. However, these facilitations do not relate to the deadlines that must always be respected. Errors may occur when an insurer or intermediary cancels a policy on behalf of the client, such as failure to send a notice of termination, incorrect dates and the like. Such errors can lead to inconveniences such as double coverage or lack of coverage. A mistake is always possible. It goes without saying, however, that in the event of a proven error, the party who made the mistake is responsible for the damage it has caused. The policy holder is requested to submit his complaint to the internal complaint service of the insurer, possibly through the insurance intermediary. He may also refer the matter to the Ombudsman of Insurance and ultimately to the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, I do understand why people are confused. For example, if a telephone subscription is changed, it is automatically regulated by the provider, so that you do not pay for two subscriptions at the same time. However, from your reply, I conclude that this is not the case with car insurance, except when the new insurer explicitly says that he will arrange it with the previous insurer. So I can imagine a lot of people being confused about this. For example, in the case of energy contracts, this also happens automatically. Either the new insurer itself must explicitly tell the customer to cancel his current contract, or there must be a change to the legislation, which also automatically applies to car insurance, as with energy or telecommunications contracts. We certainly need to be aware of this in the future in order to avoid people paying double premiums for their car insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u35	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u36	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have read the ombudsmen's annual report carefully. The administration has not received a direct notification of such a problem. As mentioned in the Ombudsman's report, questions were occasionally asked about damage attestations and their content. If the policy holder discovers an error in the damage certificate, he or she is requested to contact the insurer, possibly via the insurance intermediary, so that the situation can be corrected and a new, corrected damage certificate drawn up. If the problem persists, the policy holder may contact the complaint service of his insurer, his insurance intermediary and, if necessary, the Ombudsman of the Insurance Office or the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. The certificate of damage history is very important for many people to be able to take out new insurance and get the right information about it. I hope that these problems can be avoided in the future, so that the conclusion of new insurance, which requires a certificate of damage history, can be done in a correct and smooth way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u38	Question No 55019662C by Mrs Depraetere was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the solutions put forward in the European Court of Auditors' report on the insurability of the travel sector in the field of insolvency protection are certainly not unknown to me. Together with the other Member States, we in Belgium have repeatedly indicated to Europe that there are certain problems in this area and it may be worthwhile to find an EU-wide solution to this, such as a pan-European guarantee fund or a multi-guarantee scheme. Following input from all Member States, a short report was issued by the European Commission at the end of February 2021 listing all the experienced pain points of the Package Travel Directive, indicating these two possible slopes, in order to resolve the insolvency protection issue. The European Commission committed itself to a comprehensive analysis of the current regulatory framework for package travel, including insolvency protection by 2022. At the same time, we are evaluating our own Belgian insolvency protection system at national level and looking at how we can improve this in order to achieve a robust system that can also last in the long term, regardless of situations such as the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, at the end of your answer you quoted it. Corona has made us more aware of the importance of insolvency insurance than ever before. It doesn't exist everywhere. If we have it, it is important that it also works and that consumers can trust that their money is effectively insured and protected and they will get it back if there is insolvency. I understand that the European Commission is currently working on an analysis that we can expect the first results of by 2022. I certainly look forward to that. You said in your policy statement that you are also looking at what the scheme is like within Belgium. How can we sustainably reform the Guarantee Fund in the event of major problems, such as the Corona crisis? We're looking forward to it. I'll keep a close eye on it. I think there are two interests here that are not contradictory, even if at first sight that would appear to be so. It helps the travel sector to have good insolvency insurance, but also the consumer. At first sight, the conflicting interests are certainly not in this one. It is in everyone's interest that we get a proper settlement here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55019761C question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, the government agreement included measures to improve the right to be forgotten in insurance law. We heard that it was investigated whether and under what conditions the list of chronic diseases can be supplemented. Earlier, our proposed bill was put on hold for this purpose. That is why it is important that we now get an update on the evaluation of the reference grid by the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Is there any proposal on the table to change the reference grid yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u43	The coalition agreement states that it will examine the conditions under which the list of chronic diseases can be supplemented. The activities of the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre in collaboration with the Tarification Follow-up Office have been ongoing since 2020 and are carried out at two levels. In the short term, there is the study to insert two disorders on the roster and/or to adjust the roster. In the longer term, there will be research into the addition of disorders and the evaluation of the current criteria of the schedules following a call for proposals launched at the end of 2020. According to the Insurance Act, the King may, on a proposal from the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care and after advice from the Succession Bureau for Tariffing, adjust the reference schedules. Studies are still ongoing. It is therefore too premature at this stage to inform you about the proposals of the Centre of Knowledge. The Tarification Follow-up Office will not be able to formulate its opinion until it has received the studies from the Centre of Knowledge. In addition, the government is considering how the right to be forgotten can be extended to other health insurances. I refer to the proposal that you and Mr De Caluwé have worked out to extend the right to be forgotten to secure income. Assuralia then communicated that it wanted to act as a self-regulatory body in the form of a code of conduct and to extend the right to be forgotten for ex-cancer patients to cover guaranteed income.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u44	Steps have already been taken, but we're not quite there yet. We will put forward a motion for a resolution together in committee in order to follow up on the issue. We like to hear how things are going, the sooner the better, since a lot of people are still in the dark.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to get the recent figures on active solar power stations. Are they mainly present in a specific region? Are there any complaints about malicious practices? If so, how many in the past 24 months? How many checks have been carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, the number of establishment units registered under the specific NACE code 9604002, solar banks, is 1,889, of which 143 are located in the Brussels-Capital Region, 1,234 in Flanders, and 512 in Wallonia. In the last 24 months, 18 complaints were received. Any well-founded complaint shall be followed up. In 2019 118 solar banks were physically controlled. Only 99 centres were still active. A total of 1,097 infringements were identified in 2019. In addition, an administrative check was carried out by sending a questionnaire to 503 centres. This checklist was a summary of all the obligations imposed by the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 laying down the conditions for the operation of solar centres. The intention was for the operators to evaluate their solar centres themselves on the basis of this checklist. 356 companies replied, or 70.7%, 169 of which replied that they did not make a solarium available to consumers. A total of 687 infringements were detected. Until mid-March 2020, the websites of 15 solar centres were checked, and 1 centre was checked on site. Following the closure of the controls, the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 laying down the conditions for the operation of solar centres was cancelled on 5 February 2020. In addition, all centres had to close down mandatory from 13 March 2020 as a result of the lockdown. The manned centres were allowed to open permanently on 1 March 2021 and the unmanned centres on 8 June 2021. The checks just started again. As the competent Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, it is mainly my job to ensure that the consumer has transparent information in his relationship with the commercial centres. Basically, a solarium is not good for health. Many cases of skin cancer are known, associated with excessive use of the solarium. It is my job to protect the consumer and ensure that he makes the right choice for himself well informed. I will not allow commercial centres to provide faulty or misleading information. Initially, the focus is on sensitisation. We need to make people aware of the potential risks. In this context we also had a meeting with Kom op tegen Kanker and the Foundation against Cancer. In any case, prevention of skin cancer remains very important. We are also in consultation with the solarium sector to look for solutions. There seems to be understanding for more targeted controls and clear guidelines for solar centres, so that malicious operators who fail to comply with the directives can be dealt with further. More stringent management, controls and sanctions are needed. I will also investigate under which conditions or efforts elements of the destroyed 2017 KB can be re-introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very full answer. I am impressed by the many checks that have been carried out. There was hard work at every level. As you yourself say, the most important thing is the prevention campaign so that people are aware of what they are doing. Forbidden is another story. It is very important that what exists on the market is properly placed and monitored. Thank you for your efforts. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u48	Mrs Verhelst, I forgot one sentence in my answer. I would also like to say that I have made contacts at European level with the Commissioner for Health to discuss a uniform approach at European level, which I also think is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic546x.u49	That is right as people move to neighbouring countries. There is no point in banning the sale of solariums if they can be ordered over the internet. There must be a uniform approach.
