ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u1	Minister, I would like to quote from De Tijd of 12 October 2021: "The state bank Belfius will be the largest seller of Proximus telecom bundles. In the long term, Belfius intends to sell further non-banking services. They want to reinvent retail banking." A State-managed financial institution aims to sell numerous non-bank products while reducing the supply of banking. What will be the next thing, after the telecom bundles? Will Belfius further reduce its banking offer and start selling telecom equipment, TVs, computers and so on? Nutrition might be useful, too. Let's go to the bank for a reload card and bring a pack of frozen vegetables right away. Where's the border? Anyone who wants to become a customer at Belfius will now even receive a list of personal questions about his leisure activities, passions or television use. People even want to work with employees to talk to customers about non-financial matters personally, while strictly financial customers will increasingly have to help themselves through online banking and the like. With the sale of telecom products, Belfius also becomes a competitor of commercial transactions selling similar products, of which there is no doubt also a number of customers at Belfius. What is your position on this shift in Belfius' service offering? Do you believe that a bank should confine itself to financial services or do you agree to the new rate of Belfius? Where do you think the limits are as regards the products and services that may or may be offered by a financial institution? Don't you think it's a problem if a state bank becomes the competitor of its own customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u2	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u3	Mr Gilissen, Mr Freilich, Belfius and Proximus indeed have a strategic partnership for commercial cooperation. It combines common economic and social objectives to ensure and strengthen their long-term existence. Belfius has been offering non-financial services to diversify its revenues for a long time, always ensuring that these services are relevant to customers and fit within the strategic course. The recent launch of Beats is an example of this. This new concept means that a customer can subscribe to an offer with the possibility to combine banking and telecom services both through Belfius' offices and via the bank's mobile app. Belfius acts as a commercial agent of Proximus for the provision of the telecom hatch. However, this does not mean that private information about the customer is exchanged. Moreover, the GDPR regime also applies to Belfius, which means that any processing of personal data must comply with this scheme. Only the information and data of the customer that relates to the telecoms offer via Belfius necessary for the conclusion and execution of the telecoms contract with Proximus will be exchanged. In this sense, neither Proximus nor Belfius has a more privileged position than other competing parties. They are also subject to the same rules. The partnership consists of two pillars. Firstly, there is the Beats concept, the part in which Belfius acts as Proximus commercial agent for the supply of telecom products. That part should neither be submitted to nor approved by the Belgian Competition Authority. Nor is a prior decision or approval or a prior opinion of the Data Protection Authority required. In addition, there is the creation of the new Banx app, where Proximus acts as a business agent for Belfius. This method of cooperation was previously tested by the FSMA. The collaboration with Proximus was also tested against the ethical charter of Belfius. This resulted in the finding that Belfius and Proximus have a lot of values in common. For a commercial bank, it is inevitable that it will ever become indirect competitors of a customer. This is already the case with Belfius customers who are also active in the financial world. Beats is no different in this respect and will therefore not have the effect of making Belfius a competitor of its own customers more than today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u4	Mr Minister, a bank should actually be a serious financial partner, an institution where you can go for financial advice, a loan or insurance. As far as we are concerned, this does not apply to telecom products. More and more often it appears that many customers are not digitally skilled and have difficulty in arranging their banking business. It should be the first focus of a bank, certainly a government bank, to help the digitally less skilled customers before focusing on other activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u5	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u6	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u7	The MASP-C.be programme is the Belgian implementation of the European Multi-annual Strategic Plan for electronic Customs. This digital implementation of the European Customs Code includes, firstly, a harmonised exchange of information according to internationally accepted data models and message formats, secondly, a review of customs and excise processes and, thirdly, a wide range of electronic services for economic operators. The programme consists of three parts, in particular the MASP, T&M and the single window, to which 61 %, 23 % and 16 % respectively of the estimated budget is allocated. The first concerns the Belgian transposition of the European Commission's MASP-C planning. In addition to the annual maintenance of the MASP applications, the T&M, Time and Materials component includes necessary national applications. The third part aims to implement the single window principle for many administrative formalities. The investment project concerns the development and maintenance of ICT applications. The investment budget of the MASP-C.be programme is subject to the following time horizon: 46 % in 2022, 46 % in 2023 and 8 % in 2024. In short, the programme aims to further modernise the IT landscape of the General Administration of Customs and Excise. By focusing heavily on the efficient handling of the significantly increased e-commerce and by implementing the single window principle, the competitiveness of economic operators in the logistics chain will increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would like to remind you that my question and the following question were prompted by the fact that we had drawn up the list of investments amounting to as much as EUR 1 billion over three years, which we received on 14 October, in monolingual French. That has forced me to ask the various ministers for additional explanations. I'll look into your answer and follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u9	I'm very fond of this project. You know that our country has a bad score in terms of the quality and energy efficiency of our building park. Public buildings are outdated and no longer meet current standards. The result is the high energy consumption of these buildings and the resulting costs for the environment, but also the own financial costs that we have to bear. The federal government's ambition is to drastically reduce carbon emissions. To support this ambition, taking into account that our building park is responsible for a significant part of this, it is necessary to invest massively in the renovation of government buildings. These investments need to be significantly accelerated in the coming years, especially if we are to achieve the target of reducing our emissions by 55% by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. The poor energy level of many public buildings does not show that the government is prepared to address this issue. The aim of the project is therefore to reverse the trend by giving the government an exemplary role in this respect. To this end, the DRFM project aimed at accelerating the energy renovation of federal government buildings by means of a public-private partnership and a special instrument developed together with the FPIM, the so-called feeder. The first to deal with this are the Directorate of Buildings, Defence and SNCB-Infrabel, of which representatives are part of the implementation body of the project. They regularly provide input to the project. At this stage, the broad lines of the project are currently being drawn up. The details will be determined during the design phase 2022. It is estimated that the cash out will be spread over a period of 5 to 10 years, starting in 2023. The full amount will be transferred to the feeder that will be the specific financial instrument. These amounts will in principle come from the FPIM under a loan, with the assistance of private and public institutions. At this stage, the budget for the coming years has not yet been allocated to this project, as investors will be largely reimbursed with low interest rates by energy savings over a period of 15 to 30 years. The presence of private actors in the financing of institutional organisations, banks and insurance companies and the execution of the works by the ESCOs of Energy Service Companies will enable us to carry out many projects at the same time without falling further behind and thus live up to our Belgian and European ambitions. In principle, therefore, we will set up a system whereby we will speed up the renovation of our public buildings by the presence and involvement of private partners, both for the financing and for the execution of the works, which should mean a significant acceleration of the renovations, which is an important challenge in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I admit that your explanation is very interesting and it is a very interesting investment. Nevertheless, on the basis of experiences in Flemish education, where a lot of renovations have been done on school buildings, I would like to point out that a number of people active in passive construction have become a lot of school buildings passive construction, and tell me that the effects are not necessarily unambiguous. It is true that in many renovated school buildings the heating costs are of course much less. However, an effect that was not charged is that, for example, in the summer due to the high insulation the heat can get away much less. So it gets very hot in the buildings. Especially now with the corona crisis and the council to air enough, there are problems to be able to ventilate enough. Renovation is a good thing, certainly renovation of government buildings. However, it is not always that simple. There are sometimes a lot of costs caused by unnecessary projects. It is therefore certainly important that the dossier be thoroughly examined and that all aspects of such a way of building be taken into account. However, Minister, thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u11	What policy objective does the government intend to achieve with this specific investment project? Please explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u12	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, we have discussed this issue a number of times. It will certainly not be the last time we discuss this issue. A new element in this dossier is that the European Commission launched the public consultation last month. It normally runs until the end of the year, and in 2022 the European Commission would come up with a number of more concrete orientations on the revision of the budgetary rules. Its timing is particularly difficult to estimate, given the electoral calendars and the government negotiations in certain Member States. It now appears that a government has been formed in Germany, and it is important for that Member State to regain some policy stability. The debate on the revision of the European budgetary rules is primarily conducted politically with the other Member States. Of course, this is happening within the Ecofin Council and the Eurogroup, in which I represent our country. As usual, a formal DGE meeting is organised for each Ecofin meeting, for which all entities are invited. In the regular debriefing sessions of the Ecofin Council and the Eurogroup, of course, we will discuss this regularly. In addition to the formal contacts in the Ecofin Council and the Eurogroup, I have, of course, regular informal contacts in the Benelux context with the relevant Commissioners and with colleagues from both the southern countries and the northern countries, the Hanzeliga. On the basis of these discussions, I can conclude that only politically realistic proposals, which are therefore acceptable in all Member States, will lead to an effective result. I would like to stress that we must avoid the discussion being conducted only from a north-south perspective, which is sometimes suggested. On the contrary, we see that some of the countries of the Hanzeliga sometimes keep themselves rather on the plain. This was also demonstrated by the non-paper that these countries put forward at the informal Ecofin meeting in Slovenia. Germany did not sign that letter at the time. In fact, in the letter we read an opening to the other countries for a revision of the rules. Now, as a guide to the discussions at European level, a federal positioning was developed on my proposal, with some important chalk lines. The project to which you referred in your question is about positioning and belongs to the so-called fifth axis of our restart and transition plan. In view of the investments, we have agreed to develop our position in this context. Of course, we do not need resources for this, but that position is important in order to guide our European contacts. We have approved this positioning within the budget conclave. We have also had regular exchanges of views on this subject in this Committee on Finance. I intend to keep doing that, because I think it's important that you are aware of this. The positioning is on the line that we have always maintained, in particular that we need to find a good and correct balance between the deleveraging of debt and the stimulus of investment. Even if Maastricht standards, the so-called 3 % standard and 60 % rules, are no longer adapted to the current reality, I do not think it is necessary for us to change them, regardless of whether this is feasible at European level. For me, rules are important, also in view of sound public finances. A possible more realistic element in the revision is the so-called debt rule, whereby the debt is reduced by one-twenties a year. If we look back at it, it has not yet produced the desired result. That is why we must also ask ourselves whether other, more realistic, but perhaps more enforceable debt paths per Member State are possible. There is also a whole debate on the types of investment. The challenges are known to all of us. The low investment rate and investment ratio in our country need to increase. This means that we must enter into this discussion. In the past, we often saw that when governments attract the budget belt, public investment is often cut first. However, the relance and importance of investment in this area, which certainly needs to support the green and digital transition, is an important element in the debate. It is therefore necessary to create new rules that allow sufficient scope for growth-enhancing and green investment. Those elements are included in our federal positioning. These are, of course, general principles which still need to be worked out in detail, and concrete proposals must also be put on the table. At that time, the regions will also be asked to be involved. The NextGenerationEU Recovery Fund was established as a one-off and temporary instrument. Indeed, there are now voices in favour of making it a permanent instrument. On the basis of an ex-post evaluation, however, it is too early to do so, we can, of course, discuss what this evaluation entails and what impact it has. At the moment, however, this is absolutely not the case. The focus must now be on the success of the roll-out and roll-out of the instrument in general. As you know, the recovery fund's reimbursement is a combined system of possible new European own resources and regular resources from the multiannual budgets. I therefore think it would be advisable to look first at the assessment and the balance between the two elements, before we start a new debate on new European debts. With regard to European taxation, I would also refer to the agreement of the European Council of July 2020, which puts forward a number of new sources of own resources. I expect the Commission to present new proposals shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you were right to say that a position on the Stability and Growth Pact is not an investment, because, of course, PSC, Madam President, is not an investment in pact de stabilité et de croissance. You also referred to a number of concrete proposals or guidelines that the European Commission will make in 2022 under those European budgetary rules. They usually come to Parliament on Friday. We are certainly going to ask the European Commission what direction it sees that going. Minister, you rightly referred to the elections in many countries, including Germany, where the election results are now clear. Of course, there is still uncertainty in France about the outcome of the elections. And, of course, there will be no position on budgetary rules without clarity about the French Government. Mr Minister, I do not see in your answer how you actually get that position with, for example, the Flemish Government. You have not spoken of this, although I have asked questions about it. Have you consulted with Minister for Finance Diependaele on these Belgian positions? Has Minister Diependaele expressly agreed to the Belgian position? I would have liked to know. You didn't answer that question. Finally, you also refer to the European Commission. If we can believe the Belga report on the European Commission's report, the Commission reiterates the importance of these growth-enhancing investments and measures, first and foremost to support the green and digital transition. For example, it says that the measures announced in the draft budget are in line with the recommendations, but still far too little, but I understand from your reply that you are also aware that these public investments certainly need to be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u14	Mrs Marghem, you seem to be referring to an individual file. If you provide us with the contact details of the taxpayers concerned, my administration will conduct the necessary audits. However, in terms of principles, I can provide you with the following. According to the legal provisions, income from movable property is considered to be professional income where such assets are allocated to the exercise of the professional activity of the beneficiary of such income. By way of derogation, income resulting from the assignment or assignment of copyright shall retain its status as movable income except in the event that it exceeds the limit laid down by law. It cannot be inferred from the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 10 November 2017 that copyrights cannot under any circumstances be assigned to the exercise of a professional activity. If such an allocation is established, the income generated by these rights shall be qualified as professional income, in accordance with the above-mentioned legal provisions to the extent that it exceeds the limit laid down by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, there is a concern expressed by the Bar, perhaps not necessarily in the case of an individual case, but more precisely in the legal sphere. I will obviously contact you or make sure that the person who asked me this question contacts you. There are, I believe, divergent legal analyses which mean that a major problem of misunderstanding lies between the professional world of those who analyse the legislation and your administration. I therefore hope that at the beginning of this contact, on a general level, it will be possible to move this matter forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u16	Question No 55022126C by Mr Josy Arens was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u17	Minister, some 80,000 companies and ASBL, or about 11% of them, are not in good standing with the UBO register, as indicated by the newspaper L的Echo. However, when one consults this register, one also discovers companies which appear to be in good standing, but for which no final beneficiary appears. I am not going to give you any examples, minister, but if you insist, I can do so following my consultation with that registry. Why does no beneficiary appear for certain companies considered to be in order in the UBO register? Is it because of the reporting criteria? If so, which ones? Can you tell us how many companies and other registrants are in case no final beneficiary is mentioned? Is this not a problem for the efficiency of the UBO register itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u18	Mr Van Hees, there are several reasons why a beneficial owner is not registered. For example, the obligation is waived for companies subject to equivalent international standards that ensure adequate transparency of property information, such as certain listed companies or sui generis entities such as pension funds, church factories, municipalities, etc. The beneficial owners of certain companies may also not appear in the UBO register if they are subject to an access limitation application which is being processed or has been accepted by the general administration of the Treasury. By the end of October, 4,900 companies and 59,000 ASBLs and foundations had not yet fulfilled their obligation to register their beneficial owners. Entities that have not done so, while subject to this obligation, have received a reminder and may be punished by an administrative fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u19	Minister, I also asked you about the number of companies that were in order, but whose beneficiary did not appear. You didn't answer me about that. Is this an oversight on your part, unless the information is not available?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u20	Mr Van Hees, it seems to me that I have announced the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u21	You have provided figures for those that are not in order. My question was how many companies are in order but for which the final beneficiary does not appear in the UBO register.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u22	That's the other number.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u23	These are listed companies and sui generis entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u24	I would like to know how many of these companies are included among the reasons you have cited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u25	I don't have the information yet. It is best to send me a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u26	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u27	Madam President, Minister, there are concerns about the evolution of the OECD/G20 negotiations on the global unit taxation of multinationals, particularly on the part of the voluntary sector involved in these issues. With regard to pillar 2, i.e. the global minimum tax rate, the minimum rate of 15% would ultimately be a definitive rate of 15%, a requirement of Ireland and other countries with relatively low rates. It is sufficient to see the differential with the Belgian rate of 25% to see that this rate is far too low. However, you said in plenary on 7 October last: "It is likely that the final percentage of the overall minimum tax will be set at 15%, which we can accept from a Belgian point of view." Another aspect of this case is the derogations, in particular a so-called carve-out derogation, which would allow multinationals to reduce the profits subject to minimum tax by a certain percentage of the value of their assets and their wage bill in each country. According to Gabriel Zucman's European Tax Observatory, this carve-out derogation could reduce up to 30% of the additional revenue expected by the introduction of global unit taxation of multinationals. Therefore, my questions are as follows. On what grounds do you agree to comply with the Irish requirement of a rate of 15% while the Belgian rate of corporate tax is 25%? What is your position on the carve-out derogation? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u28	I refer to my question, as I have put it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u29	The global minimum tax rate is set at 15%. By fixing the rate at that rate, it was possible to find a compromise between the 136 Member States of the Inclusive Framework on 8 October. It would be an illusion to think that, as you point out, those states would have plundered into Ireland's demands in the search for an agreement. In reality, the largest number of countries were able to agree and it had been expected for some time that the tariff would be fixed at that level. As you will recall, I also stated this at the plenary session on 7 October. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the rate of 15 per cent is an effective rate. It corresponds to the tax actually borne by a group. It is therefore not correct to compare this rate with the Belgian corporate tax rate of 25 %, which is a nominal rate. Once applied to the taxable basis, a nominal rate normally leads to a lower effective rate. Belgium supports the carve-out principle. This carve-out will of course reduce the revenue of the new tax but its objective is legitimate. This carve-out will make it possible to distinguish real economic activities from constructions based on purely fiscal considerations. The timing for the entry into force of the tax on large digitised companies and the minimum tax on large multinational companies in accordance with the so-called GloBE rules is very ambitious, but Belgium will, of course, strive to ensure that these rules enter into force in good time. At European level, we are looking at a draft directive on the introduction of minimum taxation in the European Union. According to the latest reports, the draft will be presented in 2021 and discussed with the French Presidency from the beginning of 2022. We will also have to take into account the introduction of the regulation on the world minimum tax. The EUR 300 million is a conservative assessment in view of the principles that have ultimately been included in the agreement. It is not yet possible to re-evaluate the budgetary impact, as the concrete modalities of the agreement will only be known by the end of November 2021. Once they are known, our tax administration will re-evaluate the budgetary impact. The agreement reached on 8 October has been the subject of lengthy negotiations between 140 countries. We must ensure that, within the very ambitious time frame of the inclusive framework, we can consolidate and implement this international agreement within the European Union while respecting the freedoms set out in the Treaty on European Union. It is therefore not appropriate for me at the moment to go beyond what has been agreed at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u30	Minister, I have no comment to make on your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u31	Minister, thank you for the answers I expected. You've already said you're supporting this rate of 15%. I continue to regard it as too weak, as many international observers, including Gabriel Zucman, whom I mentioned earlier. We're going to maintain this tax competition between countries. There is concern that 15% is not a minimum rate but a maximum rate, with a downward pressure on corporate tax. I have nothing specifically against Ireland, but we know that within the European Union, not within the 136 countries but within the EU, (...) the Irish presidency of the Eurogroup (...). Compared to carbon, you say that the objective is legitimate, but we can distinguish between tax and non-tax relocations, but the reality is that these activities will still be taxed little in some countries. This raises an additional problem in the application of this rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u32	Mr Minister, in the Finance Committee of 29 September 2021, I asked you about your position with regard to the excess profit rules (EPR), following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which was very negative as regards Belgium's "multinationalophile" position. You would reply: "I would point out that it is my administration and not my office that is in charge of this matter. A task force "excess profit rules" has been created since 2015 and brings together officials from the various general administrations concerned. This task force manages the EPR procedure independently." Minister, how do you justify this form of departmental accountability on your part, which is to let the administration manage a matter as important politically as budgetaryly? Would the government not have the power to change political direction along the way in this matter? What is the composition of this task force? Who presides over her? How many members does it have? From which administrations are they derived? Is the Anticipated Decisions Service represented in this task force? If so, by whom? In your answer to the above question, you referred to the payment of legal fees in this case, relating to advisory and assistance missions, for VAT-free amounts of EUR 370 000 at first instance and EUR 130 000 at appeal. Which law firm(s) is this? Have you also used companies other than law firms? If so, which ones and for what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u33	Mr Van Hees, as Minister of Finance, I have no intention of escaping my responsibilities. Rest assured, in the event of a strategic decision, I am always consulted by my administration. However, at this stage of the proceedings, no ministerial initiative should be taken since the proceedings are ongoing and the case has simply been referred to the Court of the European Union to examine the last three pleas put forward by the Belgian State in support of its appeal against the Commission's decision of 11 January 2016. Indeed, pleas 3 to 5 had not yet been examined by the Court of First Instance of the European Union, which had declared, by its judgment of 14 February 2019 in its annulment, the action brought by Belgium on 22 March 2016 admissible and well-founded but by referring only to the first two pleas in law. To be complete, I would also point out that, before European courts, the Belgian State is represented by its government, not by the Minister of Finance, but in the person of its Minister of Foreign Affairs. It goes without saying that if a new initiative were to be taken, I would make proposals to my colleagues in the government; the government will decide after deliberation in the Council of Ministers. The task force "excess profit rules" created within my administration brings together officials from the various general administrations concerned, namely the General Administration Expertise and Strategic Support, the General Administration of Taxation and the General Administration of Collection and Recovery. The Anticipated Tax Decisions Service is also represented in this task force by two members of its college. This task force is chaired in a collegial manner by an agent of the Big Business Administration for the operational part, and by the official responsible for the management of the general administration Expertise and Strategic Support for the strategic part. It has a total of about ten members. As I have already indicated, the Belgian State has engaged a law firm for advisory and legal assistance tasks in the current proceedings before the European courts. This is the Clayton & Segura law firm specializing in State aid, which is the only external firm to which the Belgian State appealed during the legal proceedings. Finally, I would like to make it clear that, before the European courts, the Belgian State is not represented by a lawyer but by an official of the FPS Foreign Affairs specially accredited to the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u34	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear that sometimes FPS officers are used where private individuals, in this case lawyers, could be hired. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, i.e. whether it is normal for the task force to deal with this issue without political input, it obviously depends on the political choice. If the political choice, yours or that of your government in general, is to maintain the same position in the excess profit ruling case, that is to say, to continue to fight in court proceedings so that an amount of almost one billion euros is withdrawn from the state funds to be offered to multinationals, then it makes sense that you say that it remains in the hands of the task force. On the other hand, if this government were to say that this gift is unfair to multinationals and that it is going to change its position in the procedure, then you should intervene politically. This non-intervention in your task force actually reflects your political position. You continue to defend these excess profit rules, which are gifts that are very expensive to public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u35	Mr Minister, a German study reveals that Belgium would lose EUR 7 billion by the mechanisms of the cum-cum structures. This mechanism would help to evade the professional discount by selling or lending shares temporarily, just prior to the distribution of the dividends. In this case, it is a third party who recovers these sums. She is exempt from tax abroad. This third person is obviously paid for part of the tax thus evaded. Although this figure is contested, German researchers do not demorate it: for them, Belgium would have such structures, and the figure of 7 billion would be realistic. What is the situation, Minister? What does the work of the tax administration allow you to say about this? What is the amount available or potentially recoverable? Are you considering reform to avoid such practices now if they exist? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u36	Mrs Marghem, having no access to the study you are quoting, nor to the precise calculations contained therein, I find it difficult to comment on the merits of the results. The fact is that between 2012 and 2015, Belgium was the victim of a fraud concerning repayments to the household discount for a total amount repaid of EUR 208 million; fortunately, EUR 782 million could be blocked in the context of the reimbursement procedure. A legislative initiative to combat this fraud was introduced in 2019. To return to the €208 million fraud, the SME administration is in close contact with the judicial authorities and examines several avenues for recovering these sums through, inter alia, legal actions in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u37	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. I'll try to make sure I get this study. But your words reassure me and limit the sums, which are far less than what is claimed. I see that, in the wake of what we had done in the previous government, you are continuing this action with your administration, to recover the amounts thus evaded. Thank you and I wish you a great end of the day with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u38	I understand that Mr Laaouej is not present for his question. 55022393C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u39	Mr Cogolati is not here. Mr Van Lommel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u40	Minister, I had addressed this question to Minister Van der Straeten. I find it strange that she was sent to you. I have often referred in the past to the fact that in October the Heads of State or Government of ten Member States of the European Union, including France, published a joint declaration expressing their support for nuclear energy. They refer in their text to the important role that nuclear energy can play in the fight against climate change and global warming. At the moment Italy is also considering joining. It also states that nuclear energy contributes significantly to energy and electricity independence. On 7 September this year, the European Commission adopted an independent review framework for green bonds with a view to issuing up to EUR 250 billion in green bonds. In the coverage of this framework, it is prominent to note that energy projects directly linked to nuclear energy will not be financed by these funds. For gas technology it is strictly limited to gas as transition technology and for example heat networks. However, at the beginning of June, the European Commission formally adopted the impact of European taxonomy on climate migration and adaptation. The EU then asked its Joint Research Centre to write a technical advisory report on the significant harm aspects of nuclear energy. Afterwards, the Commission would decide whether or not to include nuclear energy under this taxonomy. Minister, would I have liked to know what the Belgian position is on this dossier? Can you explain more about the information on the exclusion of nuclear energy projects? Is it true that, for the activities included in the EU taxonomy by the Commission, the Commission still needs to produce additional effects in a delegated act?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u41	Minister, we must indeed wait even further until the end of the year, also because there have been no official discussions on this matter. When these talks finally begin, we will have to decide what our attitude is in that regard. If, at the moment, an alliance of 10, perhaps 11, countries in Europe will soon be created to recognise nuclear energy as green in the future because it does not emit CO2 and can therefore be used against global warming, then we need to look at this objectively. We must take an active part in this debate. That is why I am asking about the Belgian position in that dossier. You didn't really go into that, and that's unfortunate. We shall also await the official talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u42	Minister, when people lose their partners, this is not only accompanied by pain and sorrow, but also with a lot of administrative obligations. For example, the surviving partners must inform the bank of the death, after which the accounts and vaults of the deceased are blocked. That temporary blocking usually lasts a few weeks, but it can go up to a few months. Only the so-called privileged accounts can still be paid through the bank. The interpretation of the relevant legislation and of what is to be understood as privileged accounts differs from bank to bank. These include, for example, medical costs, funeral expenses and costs related to the deceased's last residence. That is clear, but otherwise there is plenty of room for interpretation. Most banks have their own interpretation, which means that costs for, for example, childcare, telecommunications and the Internet cannot be paid with the funds in the blocked accounts. Those people have to go to family or friends to pay the bills. Moreover, the amount that can be taken up is limited to EUR 5,000. Mr Verherstraeten has already tabled a legislative proposal to increase that amount, because that has not been amended for a very long time. I hope that this proposal can be adopted quickly so that these people can have some more financial breathing space. Minister, can you clarify which privileged accounts the financial institutions are allowed to pay with the funds on the blocked accounts of the surviving partner? Can you also communicate with the financial institutions concerned, possibly via a letter or a circular letter? There are, after all, many differences between banks in this area. I also hope that you will support Mr Verherstraeten's proposal to increase the advance from EUR 5,000 to EUR 7,000 and that we will soon find a majority in Parliament for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u43	Mrs Lanjri, the privileged costs to which you refer and which can be paid during the blocking of EUR 5,000 are described and appointed in the FAQ that can be consulted on the website of my administration. These include privileged debts such as funeral expenses, as well as the cost of the last disease for one year. Costs relating to the deceased's last place of residence are also included. For example, it concerns utilities, fire insurance and rent costs, with expiry date within the last three months before the death and the first six months after the death. The FAQ is in practice followed by the banking sector, provided, of course, that it provides the necessary supporting documents and depends on the available balance in the bank account. A possible increase in the maximum advance from 5,000 euros to 7,000 euros in a blocked account, of which the deceased, the spouse or the surviving legally living partner is holder or co-holder, is not a problem from a fiscal point of view. However, such a change falls within the competence of my colleague responsible for Justice. The extension of this right to people living together at first sight raises a number of difficulties in the field of taxation. Firstly, it concerns the concept of tax law which has no basis in civil law. Secondly, this is currently only applied to the Flemish inheritance tax and gift rights. Moreover, it is unclear whether the proposal merely refers to inheritance by will. Moreover, the introduction of the actual cohabitation would raise a problem of proof. Although the instrument or certificate of succession is not currently required for the payment of the advance to a surviving spouse or wife or cohabitant, in order to determine whether the actual cohabiting heir, that document or certificate must be submitted. In practice, this usually takes several weeks. Such an advance for an actual cohabitant, who may not be the heir of the deceased, may also lead to further disputes afterwards. The fiscal and patrimonial situation of the legal cohabitants and married persons is very different from that of the actual cohabitants and cannot therefore simply be equated in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reservations about our proposal. I'm sure I'll give them to the colleague as well. In the meantime, we can work out and improve that. My first question was which accounts can be paid. It is true that this can be found on the government's website, but I note, as you yourself said, that it concerns a limited number of accounts. For example, an Internet or childcare account is not mentioned. These are, however, essential costs that we must also be able to pay. Minister, perhaps it is necessary to update the website. If necessary, this may require a legislative amendment. However, what is or may be covered today is no longer sufficient and is not adapted to modern times. Maybe 20 years ago it wasn't necessary to be able to pay Internet charges, but today that's essential. I hope you will look back at that aspect, because what is mentioned on the website today is really not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u45	Minister, according to your answer to Written Question No 569, for the 2020 tax year, 826 companies reported nearly 266 billion euros in payments to countries considered as tax havens on the basis of Article 307 of the Income Tax Code. As in previous years, the United Arab Emirates is well ahead of the country ranking, accounting for 63 per cent of the total. The Emirates is also one of the tax havens in the centre of the Pandora Papers and is obviously also targeted in the Dubai Papers, a scandal in which Belgian actors occupy an important place. We also know the importance of Dubai in the diamond world and the significant level of fraud affecting this sector in our country (cf. business Monstrey, Omega Diamonds, HSBC/SwissLeaks, Panama Papers, Pandora Papers, etc.). Minister, how many officers does the tax haven tax return analysis unit count? How do you explain the importance of the United Arab Emirates? Is this country subject to specific investigations? If so, what are the results? Of the 826 companies mentioned above, how many reported payments to the United Arab Emirates? What is the total amount reported by the top 25 companies that reported payments to the United Arab Emirates for the 2020 tax year? For the last five years available, how many tax controls have been carried out on the basis of payment declarations to the United Arab Emirates? What is the number of those who gave rise to a supplement? For what total amount? Secondly, to address a similar issue, the Pandora Papers provide further evidence that the criteria used by OECD, the European Union or Belgium to list tax havens are deficient. These lists are drawn up on the basis of certain commitments of the States concerned and of legislative implementation, but not on the basis of the reality as it emerges from the actual financial flows or the concrete dossiers appearing in the Leaks and Papers that we still know. NGOs have been making this point for a long time, but it is also the case of the European Parliament in its resolution of 21 January 2021 on the reform of the list of tax havens of the European Union. In particular, the resolution states that "only 2% of the world's tax losses come from territories on the EU list" - a list of EU tax havens - "the current process of listing third countries and territories does not include a stand-alone criterion for zero or very low tax rates" - to define a tax haven, we do not look at the tax rate; it is a peak - and that "the European list concerns only third countries". If one takes the ten most used jurisdictions among the 923 Pandora Papers cases for which the newspaper Le Soir was able to identify the tax haven - British Virgin Islands, Seychelles, Belize, Panama, Hong Kong, Bahamas, New Zealand, Delaware, Singapore, United Arab Emirates - the majority of them are missing from the Belgian list. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Why don't you use reality-based criteria to define the list of tax havens included in article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code? Why are not all tax havens involved in the Pandora Papers included on this list? Do you intend to do it? Why does this same list not include any of the tax havens of the European Union, for example Cyprus, which is mentioned in the Pandora Papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the G20, of which the European Union is a member, has recently approved a tax reform for multinationals. This agreement requires, inter alia, that profits be subject to a minimum tax. On the occasion of this agreement, it is useful to examine our national legislation. The list of States contained in article 179, which you referred to, applies only in the case of payments made by companies. But when natural persons use legal constructions, we are in the domain of the Cayman tax. In this context, I can confirm, inter alia, that the legal entities located in the mentioned jurisdictions are indeed covered. Four officers are assigned to the FCA Tax Paradis Control Unit, the Anti-Fraud Coordination Service. But, potentially, all ISI agents may be required to carry out checks. For the surplus, these reporting data are also subject to specific analyses by at least two ISI dataminers. We do not have statistics on the results according to the countries to which the payments are made. My administration has detected more than 500 companies that have reported, among other things, payments to the United Arab Emirates for the 2020 tax year. The first 25 companies that reported payments made payments for a total of 167.2 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u47	Minister, there were two questions and I don't know if I got the answers to both questions. Was it an overall answer or is there two answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u48	That is a comprehensive answer, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u49	Thank you, I'll take note of it. I agree with your argument that there is not only Article 179, but also the Cayman tax for natural persons. I note that the four officers are very little to handle this entire flow of information, even if you say every time that after that, other officers can control these files. However, four agents to deal with as many billions, it seems to me very little. Your answer is particularly appealing to the 25 companies that alone account for 167 billion payments to the United Arab Emirates. I suppose if I asked you for the identity of these companies, you'd tell me that professional secrecy or tax secrecy prevents you from mentioning them. It's, at least, challenging. It is worth investigating these astronomical amounts and seeing what reality they cover. I still reserve the right, in the future, to return to this amount and to this situation in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u50	Mr Minister, I can perfectly agree with the previous question because how do we get into tax havens? That's with the plane, of course. I understand that the flight tax will not apply to those flights to tax havens because they are too remote. But I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u51	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, my policy cell is currently working out a preliminary draft law with the administration. That draft is still at an early stage, so that I cannot yet lay down any further rules for the new tax. As soon as the Council of Ministers has approved this draft, it will follow the normal legislative process and be submitted for advice to the Council of State. It will also be submitted to Parliament in time for the law to enter into force from 1 April 2022. The compatibility of a shipper's allowance with Article 15 of the Chicago Convention will, of course, be addressed in the explanatory memorandum of the draft. I note that the judgment of the Administration Department of the Council of State was the first in a series of judgments on the issue. In the United Kingdom, the High Court of Justice, the Finanzgericht in Germany and the Hoge Raad in the Netherlands decided in reverse. In addition, there is a finding that many States that are parties to the Chicago Convention have introduced some form of insignia. Also from the International Civil Aviation Organisation, established by the Chicago Convention, it has never been claimed that the introduction of an insignia would be contrary to that Convention. All this shows that, contrary to what the Administration Department of the Belgian Council of State decided in 2005, it is accepted internationally today that the introduction of a shipper's fee is compatible with the Chicago Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u52	Minister, I can only conclude that you are suffering from a delay. Your extinction of the special social security contribution has been postponed. The boarding fee has been postponed to next year. The reverse cliquet system is also further delayed. So you are suffering from a great deal of delay, but I also note that your government's policy goes against what other countries are doing. You may have seen the UK's budgetary plans, which have decided to reduce taxes on short-haul flights. They want to encourage local airports. We have no choice but to establish this and continue to ask you questions until we are clear about this government's plans with regard to that flight tax. Not only us, but also airports are asking for clarity about these plans. After all, everyone is very concerned about which direction they will take. All the modalities will probably be known in the coming weeks, and we are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 55022454C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u54	Mr. Piedboeuf, the Act defines the advance ruling as "the legal act by which the Federal Public Service Finance determines in accordance with the provisions in force how the law will apply to a particular situation or transaction that has not yet produced tax effect". I can confirm that a decision of the Anticipated Tax Rulings Service (ADS) binds the tax administration for the future. However, there are legal exceptions to the principle of the binding nature of a decision of the SDA. Therefore, where an autonomous municipal authority is qualified as a taxable person with the right to deduct under certain conditions by the SDA, the administration in charge of value added tax may verify whether one of these legal exceptions is applicable. In this context, the administration responsible for value added tax may verify whether: - the conditions laid down by the Anticipated Decisions Service are fulfilled in practice by the autonomous communal authority; - the situation or operation described by that authority in the formulation of its application has been fully and accurately described; - the essential elements of the operation were carried out in the manner described by the applicant; - the rules applicable to the transaction covered by the advance ruling have not been amended; - the advance ruling is in accordance with the provisions of the Treaties of Community or domestic law or, in other words, if the advance ruling is not illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I assume, however, that if we are well within the framework which is legally covered by the Anticipated Decisions Service, the administration is obliged to comply with it. [[I have, of course, taken every precaution that you take because one could be faced with a different case, but if the decision of the SDA is legal and in conformity with Community law and is in accordance with the conditions laid down, the administration must comply with it.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u56	At this stage, the administration is examining, as usual, the possibility of introducing a provision of cassation against the judgment of 26 October 2021. My administration is in charge of preparing the broader fiscal reform announced in the government agreement. The main features of this reform are measures to minimise tax optimisation. It will examine whether the tax legislation on the deductibility of professional costs should be amended, taking account of case-law. The three proposals mentioned in your question can support this exercise. However, the different solutions need to be considered from a general perspective rather than in view of a specific situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u57	It is true, Minister, that there is still time to think about how the matter should be resolved. For our group, there must be an amendment to the law so that professional costs which are deducted are at least directly linked to the company's activity so that excessive items, such as holiday apartments, can no longer be deducted as a professional cost. That is one of the reasons why I asked this question. I'm sure it's still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u58	Mr President, Minister, you know that we are striving for a tax that is as fair as possible. I know that you are doing the same thing, and I know that Mr Vandenbroucke is doing the same. The great fiscal reform is indeed an opportunity to correct much that is crooked. However, it may not be necessary to do everything under the heading of this great reform. Perhaps there are quick wins that are faster and more efficient beyond that great reform. Maybe this is one. At least that debate will come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u59	Minister, there are testimonies that Belgian banks such as ING and BNP Paribas Fortis refuse to transfer money to Cuba, which violates the free movement of capital. These banks seem to comply with the sanction laws of the United States, which have imposed an economic and financial blockade on Cuba. However, this blockade is rejected worldwide. On 23 June 20 June 21, the UN General Assembly condemned the economic and financial blockade against Cuba and the European Union for the 29th time in a row and by an overwhelming majority condemned it in the strongest terms because it obstructed international free trade and harmed the interests of European companies. By means of the blocking regulation, the European Union prohibits European companies from obeying US sanctions laws, but it seems that the banks do not care about them. They even go beyond the imposition of US sanctions laws, because they even block transfers in euro banknotes between two European countries. That is not acceptable. What is your response to these practices? Can you draw up and direct a letter to the banks containing concrete guidelines guaranteeing free payments to Cuba?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u60	Mr President, Minister, in November 2021, the world of associations and trade unions demonstrated in front of the offices of ING and BNP Paribas Fortis in Liège and today even in Ghent to denounce the unacceptable practices of these banks with regard to financial transactions concerning Cuba. It's not new. In February 2019, the then Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, answered one of my written questions: "Belgium clearly denounces the American embargo against Cuba, not only with regard to its concrete effects on the Cuban population, but also because of the extraterritorial scope, in fact, of the American sanctions that also affect the interests of the member countries of the European Union." Today, however, these restrictions of North American-constrained Belgian banks continue, while they are contrary to international law (29 UN resolutions) and European Union legislation (Regulation 2271/96). There are many examples. I have thus received a recent and staggering exchange of letters between BNP Paribas Fortis and the head of a Belgian ASBL of international solidarity. The bank asks questions worthy of police questioning. It requires that the ASBL's organization chart as well as elements of its accounts be received. It peels the content of its various campaigns, looks at the slightest mention of the word Cuba in the banking communications of its financial movements, etc. Finally, after all these exchanges of letters, these imposed ukases, she sends a letter without any other motivation to exclude the ASBL from her clientele. We would like to see such a strenuous attitude on the part of the banks in the fight against major tax fraud rather than against solidarity associations. Minister, will you order Belgian banks to put an end to these unacceptable practices? Furthermore, specifically with regard to the BNP Paribas Fortis group, of which the Belgian State is an important shareholder, will you ask the directors appointed by the government to intervene on the board of directors of this banking group in order to put an end to these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u61	Mrs Reynaert, Mr Van Hees, the financial institutions naturally carry out their commercial activities in an international context which imposes certain standards. At European level, reference can be made to the anti-money laundering package proposed by the European Commission last summer. The institutions concerned form commercial and strategic choices in this context. It is not up to the Minister of Finance to examine them. However, this does not mean that the existing legislative framework should not be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The testimonies we have received absolutely contradict that. Such practices are simply unacceptable. In my view, it could mean progress if you send out a concrete signal to show that the ban must be respected. Mr Van Hees has already stated that action is being taken on this issue in Ghent today at the branches of the relevant banks to draw their attention to it. I understand that letters have also been sent to your cabinet in this connection. If an answer is formulated, I think that can make a difference. Thank you in advance for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u63	Minister, I expected a slightly more elaborate answer. We are facing an unacceptable situation. Belgian banks, in any case present in Belgium, are clearly subject to an American law unanimously condemned in the world, rather than subjecting themselves to European rules and UN rules. This is a fundamental problem. I hear that American pressure is being exerted on these banks, but it is up to the government and the finance minister - you are still responsible for the banks or co-responsible with the Minister of Economy - to counterbalance these American pressures by coming with clear instructions to Belgian banks. This would allow them to invoke them in reply to the United States. I also asked you a specific question about the BNP Paribas Fortis group whose Belgian state is a shareholder. You have appointed two directors, I think, to the board of directors. But you did not answer my question when, in this case, you clearly have the power to give them instructions to intervene on the board of directors to denounce these practices. I therefore expect more from you than to sweep the question so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I note that there are two issues on the agenda. However, I have only tabled one on the subject. So there was confusion. If I am at the origin, I would be grateful if the services would excuse me. An investigation by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office was initiated in 2015 concerning tax and social fraud, social dumping and alleged trafficking in human beings within the Jost Group transport group. These include EUR 45 million not paid to workers, EUR 20 million avoided social contributions and labour trafficking. Six years later, at the end of October, we learned that a criminal transaction was being proposed with regard to the alleged fraud case. A total of 30 million are mentioned, of which 27 million will go to the ONSS and the rest to the tax administration. This agreement comes within the broader framework of a conviction for the "trafficking of human beings" component, with a six-month suspended prison sentence for certain members of the management. At the time of submission of this question, this agreement was to be endorsed by the Chamber of the Liège Council. It has already aroused a great deal of reaction, in particular from the CSC Transcom, which has openly criticized the criminal transaction and which estimates that the amount of EUR 30 million is purely derisory in relation to the overall amount of fraud which could amount to several hundred million euros. Minister, have you received all the assurances that the amount of $30 million includes the amount of tax potentially evaded? How much has this been estimated? Has the proposed transaction been forwarded to the FCA, as recommended by the Court of Auditors in its 2021 report on regularisations? What are the reasons behind the choice of a criminal transaction rather than the prosecution of the criminal investigation for the money laundering and tax fraud component?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u65	Mrs Cornet, since your question is about a specific taxpayer, I cannot provide you with any information under the provisions on professional secrecy. However, article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation does not provide for joint reporting of a proposal for a criminal transaction to the FCA. Such an initiative is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice or the College of Attorneys General. The first action plan of the College for the fight against social and tax fraud provides for a multidisciplinary approach to fraud through cooperation and the exchange of information between the social inspection services and offers the possibility for the inspection services concerned to extend it to other services such as the FPS Finances in the framework of a pilot project. Finally, I refer to the communications from the Labour Auditorate concerning an ongoing case which show that the issue is also being followed up before the courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. Article 216a does not provide for the transfer of the amount of the criminal transaction to the FCA. However, this was one of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors' report. I therefore invite you to take an initiative to put this in order. The anti-fraud action plan contains multidisciplinary measures and you have heard the Ecolo-Groen group say many times in favour of these measures and better collaboration between the services. I read in the press that the services complained of a lack of means to control social fraud, particularly in this case. I share with you my unease about the amount of the transaction. In previous hearings, we have addressed the OECD pyramid with regard to the force of punishment in relation to the force of the offence. We are dealing here with an actor who has knowingly organised social dumping in road transport. There is also talk of money laundering and trafficking in human beings. Do you have every guarantee that this criminal transaction meets expectations in order not to incite other offenders to fraud and, above all, to get away with it? This is a huge distortion of competition which affects not only workers but also those who respect the rules. Minister, I therefore have a mixed opinion on your answer. But I continue to encourage you to support and implement these multidisciplinary teams that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u67	Minister, I see the President laughing, but I am surprised that we do not have a topical debate on this subject. I think that, among other things, the President is very quiet on this issue. Mr Minister, yesterday we were all able to see in the newspapers a beautiful photo shoot of you between the football nets, with accompanying newspaper interviews. We have already asked questions in the context of the policy paper and I have submitted further questions, but this does not alter the fact that I would like to discuss the interesting topicality of this issue. Apparently, the football clubs are still furious with the government, despite an additional discount that seems to have been promised. Over the past few weeks, the Belgian professional clubs have been very concerned about their future. A long time ago, a proposal was leaked that clubs would now receive only EUR 4 million in tax relief, and that money could only be used for infrastructure and youth training. Yesterday there seemed to be a lighter. After all, the Minister of Finance indicated that the discount would eventually be increased from EUR 4 million to EUR 12 million. That saves a lot of drink for the clubs, but nevertheless there is still a lot of dissatisfaction about the proposal and above all about the narrow interpretation of the concept of youth football that the clubs encounter. The football association also stirs again and wonders about your financial discount. They say your numbers don't add up. Apparently, the pro football read your interview yesterday in HLN and De Morgen with surprise. In that interview, you made it appear that the revised text of the tax shift in professional football would be a concession to the sector. However, professional football tells us that you are proposing things too beautifully and, above all, that your figures would not be right. It seems that the revised text has been looked at. The measures go beyond the agreed EUR 13 million. A calculation of the football association results in an impact of at least EUR 27 million, a sum which they consider could increase even further. That is why I would like to ask a few questions, in addition to what we have already discussed in the context of your policy paper. What's the deal now? How come it's messing with the press again? How come the football clubs and the football association are back on their feet again? Could you clarify something for Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vermeersch. I will not respond to the personal fact, but I will give the Minister the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u69	Mr Vermeersch, you rightly referred to the discussion we had in the context of the policy paper at the committee meeting on 22 November. So I am referring to what I said at the time. The government has decided to propose a reform within a budgetary framework of EUR 43 million, of which EUR 30 million are parafiscal and EUR 13 million are fiscal. This will continue to be discussed in the coming days and I shall be delighted to explain the decision taken afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u70	Mr President, you are probably pleased with the brightest answer, but I am less pleased with it. Minister, I note that Latest News and De Morgen receive more information from you than Parliament. I also note that the debate is not being held in Parliament at all, since colleagues are silently murdered. The debate is taking place in the media today to the full. We can only regret that Parliament is standing by and looking at it. I would have hoped that there would be a lot more transparency, especially about the calculations, so that we could have the public debate that is going on in full knowledge of the facts. After all, you come up with figures and the football association and the top clubs themselves come up with different figures. In the end, it comes down to a well-nuke game, which certainly doesn't make the government any better. This morning I received an e-mail asking what the position of the Flemish Interest is on this matter. Everyone agrees that things need to be dealt with, but not as the government does now, with an open fight in the media. It doesn't help anyone. We very much regret the way this is going and the fact that Parliament is completely out of line in this matter. Information is given to journalists but not to Members of Parliament. We agree with the essence, but not with the way in which this matter is handled by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 55022724C by Mrs Houtmeyers lapses as she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u72	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u73	Mr Vermeersch, a federal inventory was drawn up listing a total of EUR 11.2 billion in direct grants and EUR 2.1 billion in indirect grants. It is, of course, important to note that this is a broad approach to the concept of subsidy. For example, direct subsidies on excise duties are calculated by looking at the difference in rates for the different fuel products, with petrol as a benchmark. In concrete terms, this means that the difference between the rate for natural gas used for heating and the rate for petrol in the car is calculated as a subsidy. Social energy measures, such as social tariffs and the Social Fuel Oil Fund, are also qualified as subsidies for fossil fuels, but they obviously have a social impact, and the question is whether they should be qualified as subsidies. As far as indirect subsidies to fossil fuels are concerned, the most important form is the system of commercial vehicles. Not all grants included in the federal inventory will be discontinued by 2030. However, in the National Energy and Climate Plan, the federal government has committed itself to drawing up a plan to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels. We will therefore thoroughly evaluate all tax measures on fossil fuels. If these subsidies can no longer be justified, they will be phased out gradually. As far as the responsibility of the Minister of Finance is concerned, the tax regimes and excise duties are within my policy area. As you know, some important measures have already been taken to reduce certain subsidies to fossil fuels. This is the case, for example, for the reform of the tax advantage for commercial cars, which will no longer allow fossil fuel cars to benefit from a tax advantage from 2026. Reducing the tax advantage for professional diesel is also part of the reduction of subsidies to fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Your colleague, Minister Khattabi, could not propose a national climate plan in Glasgow and had to take back in interviews to tackle subsidies on fossil fuels. Your answer reassures me more. After all, you gave a nuanced answer in the sense that, for example, you admit that the social tariff for the energy bill can effectively be regarded as a subsidy on fossil fuels. I believe that we all agree that this is a subsidy that needs to be maintained. Mr Minister, you also bit the dust today, if we can rely on the press releases on the reverse cliquet system that you want to introduce to tackle the prices of diesel and petrol at the pump. For that, too, you bit in the dust within your government. I can do one encore, you already have the support of my party to allow common sense to prevail in such matters. In the case of, for example, the reverse cliquet system for pump prices, there is no alternative. It is a way of controlling the prices of fossil fuels. There are not enough electric cars and people are still forced to fuel diesel and petrol if they keep their existing car. This requires a solution, because there will be no affordable alternative for these people in the short term. There are parties who have changed their minds in the meantime. Just think of Vooruit, who advocated a reverse cliquet system in the previous legislature, and apparently that idea has now been completely forgotten. They even ignore it and no longer talk about it in Parliament, now that they are part of the government. Minister, you do not receive support from your coalition partners, but you certainly have the support of Flemish Interest in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u75	Question No 55022765C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is not applicable. Question No 55022799C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u76	Mr President, Minister, since its establishment, the government has been pursuing a policy of austerity whose public services are one of the targets, which has a negative impact on public employment and the population. The FPS Finances is hardly an exception since it is also subject to linear budget cuts. In 2010, the Finance FPS still had more than 30,000 agents. Only 20,436 remained at 31 December 2020, according to the institution's annual report. To take just one example, even the number of comptrollers has decreased, despite the promises of successive Finance Ministers. Their number rose from 4,314 on 1 July 2016 to 3,827 on 1 July 2020. Minister, how many officers does the FPS Finance currently count? What workforce are you planning for the end of 2022? What was the number of comptrollers as of July 1, 2021, broken down by administration (Taxation, Heritage Documentation, Customs and Excise, ISI)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u77	Mr. Van Hees, as of October 31, 2021, there were 20,323 actual staff. As already stated in the discussion of the policy note, this number is estimated to be 20,311 by the end of 2022. The number of officers was 2,365 for the General Administration of Taxation, 842 for the General Administration of Customs and Excise, 424 for the General Administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes and 134 for the General Administration of Heritage Documentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u78	Minister, thank you. Regularly, I ask for the evolution of these figures, because I think it is very important. I note that they are falling, which is triple illogical. It is illogical with regard to the government's objective of increasing employment, while at the same time reducing the employment it manages itself, i.e. the employment of FPS. We don't understand logic. Secondly, this decline in employment means a reduction in services to the population. In your policy note, you mention the fine principles you want to achieve. How can we reach them with fewer staff? Thirdly, and not least, how do you really plan to fight tax fraud effectively if you do not have sufficient agents? Rather than increasing, the number of FPS Finance officers, and even specifically the number of controllers, is decreasing or stagnating. That's not how you're going to fight tax fraud effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Goffin's 55022867C lapses as he is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u80	Mr President, this dossier was discussed by the nuclear cabinet in July and will be discussed again shortly. It is, of course, premature to comment on the outcome of this discussion at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u81	Minister, it is a strange answer. You are not only getting the wind ahead of your government because of the reverse cliquet system, your approach to pump prices, but you are apparently also getting the wind ahead within your government, together with your colleague Verlinden, in dealing with the police file. The police have been stopping the country from protesting in several places for several days. It is pointed out by the nuclear cabinet that you, as Deputy Prime Minister, did little or no effort during the budget conclave of early October to ask for extra money for the police. That's why I'm asking you this question. Could you make that right, if you please? Can you confirm or disprove that? Is there any provision for extra money? I understand from your non-answer that you did not ask for additional resources. There is no provision for money at the moment, because we have not seen any specific budgets in the budget tables we have received. I regret that, of course. Then there is the question, which we will soon be asking. If money is not provided, what budgets can be made available in the future? When will that happen? This will undoubtedly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would kindly ask you to try to keep your reply within one minute, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the cost of moving from home to a fixed place of work is considered to be an occupational expense specific to the worker. As a result, the provision by the employer of a vehicle to travel from home to work is considered to be a benefit of any kind (ATN). This poses a problem for construction workers. I receive testimonies from workers who use a vehicle from the company to get to the construction sites. When they are employed at least 40 days a year at the same site, the site is considered a fixed place of work. The worker is then taxed on an ATN while he uses this vehicle only to get to a construction site. This means that he pays a minimum tax supplement of 600 euros per year, whereas he can only use the vehicle for home-to-home trips. In general, these are commercial vehicles. These workers have no alternative because the company's vehicle is also used to transport the tools. They would therefore not be able to move with their own vehicles. A trade union delegate also tells me that the tax administration applies a minimum TNC of EUR 1 370 per year on the basis of Article 36(2) of the CIR. However, this Article applies to cars but not to commercial vehicles. For workers who have the possibility of using public transport, the reimbursement of travel expenses is completely exempt. It is understandable that the use of public transport should be encouraged, but penalising workers for whom the use of public transport is impossible creates tax injustice. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Is the application of a minimum TNA of €1,370 for commercial vehicles consistent with the CIR? If so, can you specify the legal basis? In order to improve the attractiveness of the construction trades that are in short supply - and this government wants to combat the trades that are in short supply - do you not think that it should be avoided to apply an ATN to workers who use a company vehicle only to go to construction sites? Do you intend to completely exempt the employer's involvement in moving from home to construction sites, regardless of the form, compensation or provision of a vehicle?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, IRC 92 provides that, in the case of commercial vehicles made available by the employer to workers, the benefit of any kind arising from the worker's personal use must be determined not on the basis of a fixed value but rather on the basis of the real value in its head.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u85	Mr President, the Minister has indeed not exceeded the two minutes allotted for his reply. Minister, I have the impression that all these 40-day rules don't play. I rely on the reactions of the people who are in the case. I don't know what to do with such a succinct answer. Anyway, we'll see what people can do with it. We will see if your answer will help correct their situation, which is particularly unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u86	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u87	The administration develops a user-friendly digital declaration form, which will be made available through the MyMinfin platform for the tax year 2023. In addition, regulatory changes need to be made. A pre-filled declaration form will not be used, as the administration does not have sufficient information to do so. I cannot at this stage answer the question about raising thresholds: the administration is currently examining the options for discharge for different tax years in so far as the tax due does not exceed certain thresholds. No exemption from declaration shall be considered on the basis of the tax result of previous years. After all, the situation on 1 January of the year of attack is not an established situation, even if a zero declaration was made in the past. The net taxable asset on 1 January of the tax year must therefore be examined each time. However, certain legal facts and legal acts may undoubtedly have an impact on the total taxable net asset on 1 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u88	Thank you, Minister. It is good news that, from 2023 onwards, we will finally be able to exchange the old form 187, that non-profit organisations covered by the tax, from A to Z each year, for a digital declaration form. I would also urge that the amount of EUR 500, which no longer requires an annual declaration, be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u89	Mr President, Mr Matheï, Belgium has not yet been contacted by any neighbouring country with a view to extending the temporary agreements on home work during the covid health crisis and Belgium has not yet contacted a neighbouring country in this respect. We will, of course, monitor closely the evolution of the crisis in Belgium and neighbouring countries and decide on time whether or not it is appropriate to extend these agreements on the basis of the latest figures and expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u90	Mr Minister, given the current situation and the mandatory teleworking in our country, at least until January, for three days a week, it is important to seriously consider extending the current temporary agreements, even more so because in other countries, such as the Netherlands, homework is strongly recommended as an absolute rule. It would be only natural for border workers to be able to make use of this without tax consequences. In that respect, I understand that we are still waiting for the situation. It is important, however, to make a relatively quick decision to remove border workers from their uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u91	Mr President, Mr Matheï, since 2019 it is already possible to use My Minfin and thus Tax-on-web via the smartphone. I haven't tried it myself, but thank you for pointing that out. Instead of developing an app that is different depending on whether the user has an iPhone or an Android device, we chose a responsive design of the interfaces, so that the applications on any screen, ranging from a smartphone to a tablet or laptop, can be used. By the way, the introduction of itsme has made it even easier. There are no plans to develop an application like in the Netherlands. On the other hand, my administration is preparing a new project to make Tax-on-web even more user-friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The issue of user-friendliness must indeed be at the heart of it. We know that more and more operations are being carried out on the smartphone, from banking operations on corona passes to viewing testing results. It is therefore important to have an eye for this, regardless of whether it goes through a separate app or through a responsive design in a very convenient way. That doesn't matter much, but it's very important that the smartphone is also a gateway to Tax-on-web.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u93	Minister, the non-fungible tokens, abbreviated NFTs, stand up, for example as a work of art or used by athletes who put their victory on the market immortalised in a digital art environment. There are examples of this in our country as well as internationally. Those NFTs can also be traded. Mr Minister, can you clarify how NFTs are taxed in our country in relation to the recipient and in relation to the payer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u94	Mr Matheï, the Income Tax Code does not contain any specific provisions relating to the tax treatment of non-fungible tokens or NFTs, thus applying the general rules. The legal and factual circumstances in which the transactions take place will be decisive. Those circumstances are specific to each individual case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is written in the stars that the latter has not yet been mentioned. The practical application may lead to cases which may need clarification. We'll wait with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u96	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u97	Mr Matheï, if a company is a victim of a cyberattack or has to pay a so-called cyberattack and hackers ransom to free its data systems, that expense can be considered deductible professional costs regardless of the method of payment. This is subject to two conditions: the undertaking may prove that it has incurred that expenditure in order to obtain or retain taxable professional income and it may justify the authenticity and the amount by means of supporting documents or, where this is not possible, by means of all supporting documents authorised by the ordinary law, with the exception of the oath. A prior decision on this can be obtained from the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters and binds the FPS Finance for the future, provided, of course, the legal conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u98	Minister, that is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u99	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, in the context of the broader fiscal reform, it seems clear to me that no slopes remain unspoken. The objective here is not to introduce new taxes, as you suggest, but to make existing taxes more neutral, among other things. This requires a very comprehensive analysis. The possible review of the taxable basis in relation to the real estate income is obviously and clearly addressed. The same applies to the possibility of restricting or abolishing the conditional exemption on capital gains on shares, but, as has been said, there should be no taboos within the framework of the broader fiscal reform and no slopes should be left unspoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u100	Minister, when he took office, Prime Minister De Croo preached fiscal calm in De Tijd, but what do we see now, after more than a year of this government? By constantly releasing tax balloons by your coalition partners and many parties in the government, one achieves the opposite. Then you get the effect you are talking about somewhere, face investors in this case and get a lot of questions about these tax reforms. If you then answer that there are no taboos, no clear rules of thumb and draw some red lines for CD&V, things that you should not be in there as far as you are concerned, then you will continue to feed that tax unrest, which is detrimental to the entrepreneurial climate in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic629x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cornet's 55022889C was postponed.
