ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very quickly to ask my questions in order to keep pace. We have all seen that on Sunday, 4 January 2021, passengers returning by plane via the national airport of Zaventem had to join the checkpoints for a long time, resulting in queues and the rules on social distancing could not be respected. What is the cause of the long queues? Minister, how will you avoid such situations from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u2	Minister, on 3 January thousands of people returned from vacation, causing chaos at Zaventem airport. The federal police checked with all arriving passengers whether their PLF had been correctly filled out. This led to large congestions, as can be seen from photos that were eagerly shared. A crowd of people had to go against all the corona rules. Distance was impossible, even for those who tried. While many citizens daily, day in and day out of all the world's efforts to follow the strict rules, the federal government organized a mass gathering. That is why we have called for an urgent meeting of a joint committee before. That was not possible, and that brings me to my questions, Minister. You could perfectly expect thousands of travellers to return at the end of the Christmas holidays. Why has it failed to take the necessary measures in good time so that returning travellers would not be exposed to irresponsible health risks? Where is the explanation for the chaotic scenes? What caused the travellers to fall into a trap? Your colleague, Minister Verlinden, has already referred to several changed flight schedules in plenary and in the media. I'd like to know the exact flight schedules and the actual changes. The airport is, of course, prepared for changed flight schedules. Before such chaos arises, there must have been a lot of changes. Mrs Verlinden also spoke last week in plenary about the length of time. She said there was barely half an hour of chaos. May I hear more from you about the duration of the chaos back then? How will you avoid such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u3	Mr Minister, the issue of airport security is not the first time we have discussed it here. I remember that at the very beginning of the corona crisis there was also a major problem because of insufficient material and insufficient safety for both staff and passengers. During the autumn holidays we already asked questions because of problems. Now we see again the images of all the passengers packed together at the airport, unbelievable. Some people who work there, I've been on the phone. I hear the staff wondering how in the name of God it is possible that Brussels Airport is not able to coordinate and organise things properly. People don't understand that. There is also a great deal of dissatisfaction among staff about a lack of resources to perform his job properly and to ensure that passengers are properly supervised. I also mention the stewards who work at the airport via C4S. Some of those people were on economic unemployment that infamous Sunday. Those people would have preferred to do their job so that they could guide passengers properly. Minister, what just went wrong on 3 January? How could there be so many people in such a limited place at once? How many staff members of Brussels Airport Company were active on site on Sunday 3 January? How many of these staff have a security function? How many BAC staff were in economic unemployment on 3 January? How many travelers visited the airport on Sunday 3 January? How many passengers were tested for corona at Brussels Airport on 3 January? How does the cooperation with the federal police, which must check the traveler's PLF forms? Who's coordinating this action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the context has been reminded by my colleague. It is important to return to the chaos that reigned on the return of Christmas holidays on Sunday 3 January at Brussels National Airport. Long lines of waiting have been formed there. They were mainly returning travellers who had to submit to police control of their Passenger Locator Form (PLF). There must have been enough space in the terminal to maintain the safety distances and, despite everything, they were not observed, not to mention the absence of mask wearing by some travellers. The Federal Ombudsman at the airport legitimately expressed his alarm that "it is the regulator's duty to intervene in order to enforce all health measures at the Brussels-National airport". This is all the more important because in the December 2nd Infrastructure Committee, Mr. Minister, you guaranteed that the repeated incidents of November had been controlled by better coordination and that an action plan had been put in place in order not to relive such scenes. In spite of these guarantees, we have seen new scenes of chaos on Sunday, January 3, chaos that casts discredit on the authorities of the airport, especially since these images have circulated extensively on social networks, which has the gift of irritating – rightly – our fellow citizens who, for their part, strive daily to respect the gestures of barriers and especially social distancing. Minister, have you come into contact with the airport regulator so that the airport regulator is duly reminded to ensure compliance with the health measures at the airport? Have any concrete measures been taken in consultation with the Minister of the Interior, as well as the Minister responsible for Participations and Public Enterprises, in order to prevent this situation from reoccurring in particular at the dawn of the Carnival holidays? The Minister of the Interior also stated in the plenary session on 7 January that this situation was regrettable but exceptional. It must be noted, however, that it tends to repeat itself, which is simply unacceptable. So I expect a lot of your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u5	Mr. Arens seems to have technical problems on his side. I therefore have to give the floor to the minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u6	Mr. President, I'm sorry about Mr. Arens. However, I have read his question and will also answer it. Ladies and gentlemen, like you, on Sunday evening I was struck by the images of the crowd of travellers gathering at Brussels National Airport at some point. Despite an official letter sent just before the holiday, to the CEO of BAC to insist on compliance with the covid recommendations, I had to note this regrettable incident. I immediately asked my cabinet to contact the management of that, as a reminder, private company, to get an explanation. Although Brussels Airport Company has been a private company since 2004, over which I have no supervisory powers, I have, on my own initiative, regularly reminded LAC of its obligations in recent months and on the eve of Christmas holidays. Everyone must take responsibility for adopting health recommendations and preventing the spread of coronavirus. I have been following this health crisis very closely for a few months. I didn't wait for this incident to take action. Since the autumn holidays there have been several contacts between my cabinet and Brussels Airport Company. The need for optimal management of passenger flows in line with the health recommendations has been repeatedly highlighted. BAC as a private company, responsible for the management of travellers in its buildings, has a duty, in close cooperation with the federal police, to do everything in its power to manage these flows and to ensure the subsequent delivery of the sectoral health protocols. In consultation with my colleagues, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Public Health, I contacted LAC's CEO, Arnaud Feist, the day after this incident, to assess this incident together. A meeting was held with him on Tuesday, January 5, in my office in the presence of Mr. Feist and some of his collaborators, but also representatives of the FPS Public Health, the Federal Police and the National Crisis Centre, so that we could discuss the course of events together. I informed LAC of my dissatisfaction with the events on Sunday, January 3. These exchanges showed that the incident that occurred at around 5.30 p.m. on Sunday 3 January was caused by a lack of communication between the stewards of BAC and the police carrying out the control of the PLF. The crowd was mainly due to the unexpected coincidence of a number of arriving flights. A number of flights were delayed. With the massive arrival of passengers for two flights it appeared that the recording equipment should have been opened faster. A delay of 10 minutes at the opening of the device thus created repercussions for about 30 minutes. The incident caused by a human error was therefore limited in time. In general, there is good cooperation between the airport and the police to jointly ensure compliance with the covid rules. DGLV, BAC and Fedpol are in contact and operational arrangements are made to ensure a proper coordination of federal police checks and BAC measures. In order to prevent such incidents in the future, more stewards will be deployed at queues from the weekend of 9 and 10 January, with a view to better managing the flow of passengers and communicating with the police on the ground. The common goal is to be able to react more quickly through redundant communication to enable the system to open faster if necessary. To streamline control, a randomizer is also used to select the passengers to be checked. This type of random screening of the checks to be carried out has already proved its worth in managing the flow of people to the airport in the weeks after the terrorist attacks. It is to be hoped that it will help to avoid the chaos observed on the last Sunday. The health crisis situation we are experiencing is exceptional and requires considerable efforts from many sectors of activity, but also, and above all, from all of us. I would like to point out that international travel was strongly discouraged by the Consultation Committee on the basis of expert advice, due to the increased circulation of the virus in other countries. To overcome this virus, we must act together and respect the recommendations and the sectoral protocols in place. I am also committed to this in my capacity as Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that a number of things have been done in advance, that an evaluation has been carried out afterwards and that measures are being developed for next weekends. Of course, they should have been there earlier, just to avoid the problems that arose. I find it a little easy to open the umbrella and say that BAC is a private organisation and that it is responsible for that. Planes don't just fly off and on and then land wherever they want. When one sees something like that, they're birds. They're flapping their wings a little bit and spreading avian flu. If it doesn't flapper with the wings and it transports people who might spread COVID-19, then it's planes. Those countries at an airport as planned. They are not just countries, and they even know in advance how many people will get out of that plane and walk into the airport building. I think it is regrettable that this situation has occurred. Especially in view of the many hairdressers and people in the catering industry who are making so much effort to work but are not allowed to do so and for the people in the care and hospitals who are doing everything they can to cope with the crisis, I do not think there is any one team here, one Belgium. I think it is a blow to the face of all these people and I can only hope that this will not happen again in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I really didn't think your end was strong. If we're going to do blaming and shaming of people who have left on vacation anyway, I think you're gonna ignore your responsibility. You can of course say that you should not have done so, but I do not think that is the strongest line of defence. I can also support Mr Toventors. You're pulling your umbrella open. You say you have no authority over BAC, that it's a company that stands on its own and that you couldn't do anything about it. Well, you could do something about that. That vacation wasn't there all of a sudden. Those flights don't land when the pilots feel like it. Everything could be organized and planned. If I understand you correctly, you confirm what Mrs Verlinden has already said, in particular that the problem has not lasted more than 30 minutes. It would be good to somehow get confirmation of the timetable at the airport. Is that possible? Minister, I would also like to receive the exact flight schedules, including the actual changes. You said there were a number of coincident flights. What am I supposed to do with that? Mrs Verlinden said that several modified flight schedules have led to this problem. You are also talking about a number of coincident flights, so little concrete. Mr President, can we ask the Minister's cabinet to receive the exact flight schedules including actual changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u9	Mr Minister, you have not answered a number of questions I have asked. It is quite easy to say that Brussels Airport is a private company. As a government you still have 25 %+1 share. That's not a coincidence either. That's because it's important that the government has something to say there. The airport is important for the safety of passengers and of the people working there. What I hear in the workplace is completely different from what you say, Minister. Firstly, Brussels Airport does not invest in safety, or at least not enough. I heard a story yesterday about someone working at Aviapartner's check-in desk. They have one more elevator they can use for the staff. This, of course, causes problems. Secondly, the maintenance of all the material is not done thoroughly. There is no coordination whatsoever. I have been asking for months that there should be coordination between the companies at the airport, with BAC, with the police, but also with the trade union representatives. They're on the floor. Let me give you an example. Last year the police took action at the airport because there were too few staff there at the police services. Minister De Crem had promised 100 policemen would join. They're still not here. Today, people are permanently understaffed, which means that we cannot ensure adequate safety at the airport. We will soon be standing for the Easter holiday and the summer vacation. It is expected that more will be traveled. The additional staff is not yet available, while the training is serious. That also causes problems for the staff. Yesterday someone told me that when they have to call the police for an aggressive passenger, the police can't come because the policemen are on patrol and there are too few policemen. That is the real situation, Minister, on the ground of the airport. You do have a great responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Minister to ensure that security is guaranteed. We call for urgent coordination between the companies and the syndicates at the airport, so that we do not face the same situation during the Easter holidays as we do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope you have done everything you can to ensure that the airport makes new arrangements to enforce the health measures before the Christmas holidays. Unfortunately, despite these efforts, we have witnessed the incident to which all the Members present here referred. This is a rather serious incident, given the long queues of more than four hours, unlike the thirty minutes announced in the media. Files that have been observed both at the level of the controls on the passenger's location form and at the airport test centre. Thank you for taking the lead in convening Mr Feist for an explanation. Indeed, it is essential to ensure that all the orders made by Ministers De Crem and Verlinden in the fight against covid-19 are respected, knowing, on the one hand, that the British variant of the virus is much more contagious than the one we know today and, on the other hand, that the people concerned were returning from a red zone. Therefore, imposing compliance with these ministerial orders is an obligation of the director of any area open to the public, whether it is a shopping centre, a supermarket, a railway station or an airport. I would therefore like to thank you for adapting the action plan announced on 2 December. I am aware that it is not enough to deploy additional stewards to frame an expected or unexpected influx, but that care must also be taken to ensure optimal collaboration and communication between these stewards and the police. So it will be done from next weekend. I welcome this, but I regret that every time it is necessary to wait for incidents to occur in order to react, because they endanger the health of both staff and travellers. For the rest, you did not answer my question as to whether the regulator had been called to order and whether sanctions would follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Rohonyi. Mr Arens, I see you have a helmet, but unfortunately we still don't hear you. Mr Minister, additional documentation and flight schedules were requested. Can you confirm that you will deliver these to the committee? Or is that supposed to be done through other channels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u12	Mr President, there can always be a written question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u13	What has happened, Minister, is that it is appropriate to ask for these flight schedules in this actua debate. The fact that several flights overlapped, which was one of the causes of the chaos that forced people into a lockdown party, is still serious enough to ask here to see those flight schedules. Mr Minister, you say that in order to see these flight schedules, we need to submit a new written question, and that we will have a great deal of time to answer that question. That doesn't give us much faith. You will have a specific question here. You can also take note of this and instruct your cabinet to provide that information. You say, however, that it must be done through a written question. So you try to open your umbrella again and drown the fish. Mr President, I would like to ask you again, and perhaps colleagues will be able to join us. We want to see those flight schedules, with the changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u14	Mr President, Mr Raskin, I can only repeat that if you submit a written question, I will reply to your written question as soon as possible, so that you will receive all the information you ask. I don't have a problem with it. I'm not gonna open an umbrella. This is the procedure. I have nothing to hide in this file. Submit a written question and I will answer very quickly so that you can come back to that story if you want. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u15	Mr Minister, the questions we are asking here are delivered in writing to you in advance. You have not answered my questions about staffing, or you will answer them in addition to the question, as my colleague said. We ask our questions here in the Mobility Committee. It cannot be the intention that we now have to ask written questions again on matters that we have asked for orally here. The questions were submitted in advance. I honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u16	Mr President, I agree with you. A very dangerous principle is now being applied here. The questions put are simply not answered and the Minister proposes that the questions be re-submitted, albeit via a channel that lies more ahead of him. If, from now on, oral questions are dealt with in this way, and in particular leave them unanswered and request that they be retabled as written questions, then I think that is a dangerous principle with which I cannot agree. Mr Raskin has put a specific question here, and I think it has yet to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u17	Mr President, I agree with the comments made by my fellow Members: from the moment when specific questions are tabled by means of oral questions, it goes without saying that their answers must be given in the committee in which these oral questions were introduced. Clarifications by written questions may be accepted. However, the written questions are intended for very specific, numerical questions (statistics, etc.).). In this case the question was very concrete and, in my view, did not call for a written question to be tabled, especially since, as you know, because of your extensive experience as a Member of Parliament (unless you have a super cabinet), the time limit within which we are entitled to expect an answer to our written questions is six weeks. We cannot afford to wait six weeks to get a clear answer to the questions we asked you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, I do have a great firm and I thank you for that. Mr Raskin's question is very specific: "What flights have arrived?" and is typically the subject of a written question. I think the answer is pretty easy to find. I am committed to responding very quickly. I don't have the information here. I do not think I have neglected to answer the ten sub-questions that have been put to me on this regrettable incident. As a former Member of Parliament, I stand at the full disposal of the committee. I will provide the additional answers you want. It is enough for you to introduce them by means of a written question, which is the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u19	Mr Minister, when discussing your policy paper, we discussed quite extensively the payment of parking facilities at stations. You took note of that and would continue to study how best to deal with it. I made a double plea in this regard. Firstly, we need a tailor-made policy because one station is not the other. After all, a station can be located on a highway but also in a city centre, which clearly creates differences. Secondly, cooperation with local authorities is important. After all, we often get signals that cooperation with SNCB or Infrabel does not run smoothly. I would like to cite a concrete example that for once is not from the Noorderkempen, but from the far West Flanders. In Poperinge there is a discussion between the city administration and SNCB on the master plan for the station environment, with an extension of the parking. Cooperation between the city and SNCB is particularly difficult. The city wants to take on a number of tasks, one might think to be part of SNCB's mission, while SNCB seems to reject any such conversation. I would therefore like to put a few questions to you, Minister. How do you feel about making these parkings? Should the pricing policy for parking no longer be tailored to local stations rather than as a general rule? After all, that offers room for people to catch the train in remote stations. Are there clear guidelines for cooperation with local authorities within SNCB? Were there any appointments made about that? Then how are these followed? In what way do you want to encourage SNCB to cooperate better with local authorities? When discussing the policy paper, you referred to the provincial hearings on the new timetable as a good example of cooperation between SNCB and local authorities. However, when it comes to specific station files, this cooperation does not seem to be so constructive. So there are still steps to be taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u20	Mr President, fortunately we have a lot of Kempian MEPs here. If my colleague doesn't mention it, I will do it today. It is a nice collaboration between the Kempian colleagues. The station Noorderkempen was made paying since 5 October. According to SNCB, the parking lot is overcrowded. The station is very well located, near the entrance and exit of the E19, so that there may also be many carpoolers using the parking lot. The presence of an important bus station may also be a reason for the overcrowding. I already pointed it out: the location is also very good for people who travel by car from the Noorderkempen towards Antwerp and who can stop there. The location of the parking is a great asset. I would suggest parking there for free or cheaper. There is a huge pressure on Antwerp, which is already moaning under traffic pressure. I think making that parking pay is more counterproductive to the traffic pressure. Especially with the approaching Oosterweelworks the impact on traffic towards Antwerp will be even greater. I understood that there have been several consultations with De Lijn, the municipality and the Flemish Region to find a different solution. SNCB had also submitted a plan to extend the parking, but due to the large amount of hardening this was not approved. By entering the paying parking, SNCB hoped that the parking pressure would fall and so more seats would be available for the train traveller. Mr. Secretary, how do you evaluate making the parking Noorderkempen paying? What role does SNCB want to play to minimise the impact of the Oosterweelwerken? What role can parking at the Noorderkempen station play in this, for example, by making rail transport, bus transport and carpooling more attractive? Can you give a detailed overview of the calls and possible plans submitted by SNCB to solve the parking problems surrounding the Noorderkempen station? Why wasn't a solution reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u21	I will first reply in general and then deal with the specific dossiers. SNCB has been using the same strategy in its parking policy for almost ten years. The number of customers taking the train in places where the parking spaces are paying has not decreased. On the contrary, there is an intermodal shift to bicycles and other soft modes of transport. The main objective of switching to paying parking is to guarantee a parking space for SNCB passengers. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that a large part of the users of the free SNCB parking lots live less than 3 kilometres from a station. To this end, I agree with the approach taken by SNCB, which seeks to discourage this type of behaviour by introducing paying parking and giving place to people who come from beyond. However, I would like to say that I expect SNCB to fit paying parking into a broader policy in which the station's accessibility to the weak road user must be assured. The necessary equipment such as bike parking must be provided and the necessary coordination with the local authorities must be made so that the making of a parking space does not cause a sudden nuisance in the neighborhood. More generally, before making a parking fee, SNCB always contacts the local authorities to draw up a joint mobility plan. The implementation of a blue zone in the adjacent roads of the station is an example of a measure which is then discussed together with local authorities. At the same time, I made an appointment with SNCB to discuss station management further. This appointment will take place in the following months. Then I come to your questions about the station of Brecht, Mrs Verhaert. SNCB informs me that she has very often had contact with the municipality of Brecht and the surrounding municipalities about the parking of the station Noorderkempen. As a reminder, the parking lot has suffered from an unsustainable parking pressure since the reconstruction in 2014. It is the municipality itself that carried out an investigation, which shows that 50% of the customers who parked in the Noorderkempen and took the train live in Brecht. More than 1,100 customers came by car to the station, while some could come by foot, by bus or bike. However, the customers chose the car because the parking was still free, which made it saturated. In order to control this situation of saturation and above all in order to provide train passengers with a guaranteed parking space, the parking was equipped with access control. The parking lot has a total of 617 places and was paid from 5 October 2020. According to SNCB, it is too early to assess the new situation. Then I come to the question of the role of SNCB in reducing the nuisances of the Oosterweelworks. SNCB is involved in the consultation on road works on the Oosterweelroute and in the Waasland. It follows the reasoning that, in the context of the work on the Oosterweel connection, as many drivers as possible should be encouraged to switch to public transport. In order to accommodate the travelling passengers, the offer has been increased on a number of railway lines. A guaranteed parking space at the station can be an incentive for some travellers to make the switch, according to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I do have a number of reservations. SNCB's argument about paying parking is well known. This is introduced in closed car parks to ensure the location of SNCB users. Is that supposed to happen through paying parking? This can also be done free of charge, with connection to the possession of a valid ticket, for example. Customization can be done by station, as Mr Van den Bergh said, or it can be put into a general rule. However, paying parking will never contribute to the stimulation of passengers and especially commuters who regularly use the train for commuting on a regular basis to take the train. This will certainly not be the case if there would be more trains in the future and more people would be escorted to the train, which is the plan. The introduction of paying parking will counteract this. The whole issue needs to be reviewed for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That's actually the well-known SNCB response. It remains a general response to the problem of parking without differentiation. It is logical that a parking garage at Antwerpen-Central or Antwerpen-Berchem is paying. If a car park is located in a center where cars are drawn as a node, it may be less desirable. In the context of a broader mobility policy, it may be desirable to introduce paying parking there. I disagree with the previous speaker on this, but it has to be done on a tailor-made basis, and I completely miss that aspect in the current approach to parking at SNCB. When reference is made to Brecht, Mrs Verhaert will also come back to it herself, and it is said that half of the car parkers come from the municipality of Brecht. You may have no idea how big the municipality of Brecht is. She's pretty sprawled. It is really not the case that the three subcentres of the municipality of Brecht are located within a radius of 3 kilometers from the station. On the contrary, Saint-Lenaarts and certainly Saint-Job-in-t-Goor lie farther away. It's a little too simple to say that for everyone who lives in that municipality, the station can be reached by foot or by bike. I insist that there is too general a line. There's not enough tailor-made work. There is not enough talk with local partners as equal partners. There's still a long way to go. We should work on this in the coming period, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u24	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Indeed, we received a similar reply in September. As Mr Van den Bergh pointed out, this is a rural municipality, but its area cannot be underestimated. It is indeed important to take a broader view of the problem, in consultation with De Lijn and other transport companies, in order to get the people out of their cars. The location of the parking in Brecht is really optimal, but I hold my heart for the work on the Oosterweel connection. We need to check whether there are solutions to ensure that people stay out of their cars during work, so as not to increase the traffic pressure in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u25	Thank you for those Kempian questions, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u26	Mr. Secretary, in Lokeren's station, the escalators have been broken for a long time. Your predecessor, Mr Bellot, announced in the Mobility Committee of 27 May 2020 that these escalators would be restored within the framework of all kinds of work. These works would start in September 2020. However, we are a few months later and the work has not yet started. Are you aware of this, Minister? How do you explain the delay in the planned works? Where are we on this? How will you minimize the inconvenience for the traveller at the Lokeren station? What is the cost of these works? According to former Minister Bellot, that project was given the highest priority. Those were his words back then. I find it strange that such a priority project is still delayed for several months. What other stations also have this status of top priority in order to make adjustments, and is there also a delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u27	Mr Roggeman, you are following your files carefully. I was briefed on this and SNCB informed me that it was faced with the fact that the first tenders from the suppliers were all invalid, with the result that a new tender had to be launched. That's the reason for the delay. The new planning of work is now as follows. The outbreak of escalators and elevators shall take place from early December 2020 until March 2021. Afterwards, the architectural works follow the installation of the lifts and escalators. We expect to hire the first lifts and escalators in April 2021 and at the latest for the construction leave of 2021. The work shall be carried out with the utmost attention to the safety of passengers. The yard area will be shielded and the route for the passengers sufficiently marked. Several less-disturbance measures are being taken and continuously evaluated. The total cost is estimated at about 1.5 million euros, excluding VAT. SNCB has assured me that the Lokeren station will be given the necessary priority, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased with you that SNCB wishes to give this priority. Unless I have misunderstood you, you said that the outbreak of the lifts would start in December 2020. I'm a little surprised. December has been behind us for several weeks and there is still no start to work there. I hope that they will start in the near future. In any case, the fact that defects can drag on for months and sometimes even for years creates little confidence among the population. People don't understand why it takes so long. I am convinced that if it is our ambition to get more people on the train, we must solve such problems quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u29	Mr Roggeman, I did say December 2020. That was in the reply I received from SNCB. However, that answer was prepared for the previous meeting of this committee. I went to Lokeren station myself to check that out. I agree with you that it is important to communicate with citizens and travellers if there is a problem, such as here with an invalid tender.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u30	Mr President, in order to combat the coronavirus, SNCB has created the MoveSafe app. The purpose of this application was to control passenger flows and prevent overcrowded trains. The application appears to have problems, where the application indicates overcrowded trains when they would actually be empty. Worse is the reverse: especially overcrowded trains are referred to as empty. This is, of course, particularly annoying because it completely undermines the design of this application, at a time when the reliability in SNCB is particularly important. Minister, how many complaints about overcrowded trains has SNCB received since the start of the corona crisis and the start of the first lockdown? Has SNCB also received complaints about problems with the MoveSafe app? How come it took so long to develop that app and still find difficulties? What steps will be taken to address these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u31	Minister, my colleague has already explained the MoveSafe app. The MoveSafe app has not yet been integrated into the existing SNCB app. The traveller still has to use two apps: to buy a ticket and to watch the crowds on the train. It was already said in October that this was a transitional phase, because in a few months time the route planner, the occupancy meter and the ticket function would be integrated into a new app. In the meantime, SNCB reports that the MoveSafe app has already been downloaded 125,000 times. How does SNCB assess the MoveSafe app? Do travellers actually fit their travel plans, taking into account capacity utilisation? When will there be a single GSM integrated app? How will the transition be made? What further innovations will be made in the SNCB app, such as an overview of the train composition, easier registration for persons with reduced mobility and digitisation of the journey maps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u32	SNCB will let me know the following information. The number of complaints about overcrowded trains during the corona crisis and thus the problem of overcrowding was limited to a maximum by the fact that SNCB maintained an offer close to the maximum supply. During this covid period, SNCB noted an overcrowding of 0.02 % of the 3,600 trains that run daily. For the period from March to October, this resulted in an average of 47 complaints per month. Mr Roggeman, I can answer your questions two to five as follows. These answers also apply to Mrs Verhaert. The mobility sector is undergoing a profound transformation with new technologies and players and the evolving needs of customers in terms of modernity, flexibility, connectivity, real-time usage, etc. That's very positive. SNCB wants to adapt to this evolution. In this context, the railway company launched its Innovation Lab a few months ago. This aims to develop and integrate new technologies for customer services. The MoveSafe app was developed as part of the Innovation Lab. The covid crisis has prompted SNCB to shift a gear higher and to make this app for capacity utilisation operational very quickly. Although everyone agrees that the app can still be improved, it is already very useful in the vast majority of cases. This is a first version of the application, which will be improved on the basis of feedback from a panel of testers and customers via social media, but also through parliamentary questions in the Mobility Committee. As for any new programme that has to take into account a wide range of different and complex parameters, SNCB aims to make improvements and adjustments so that it becomes increasingly performant and reliable. The MoveSafe app has been available since 9 September to show the passengers in real time the occupation of the trains and the alternatives available so that they can possibly take another less busy train. SNCB intends to maintain the MoveSafe app and integrate it into the SNCB app by the end of the year. I hope, like you, that the covid crisis will be behind us at that moment and that more people will be able to catch the train again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u33	Mr Minister, the circumstances of the corona crisis obviously leave little room for childhood diseases in such technological solutions, especially since this is the only technological response of SNCB to the covid crisis. I am pleased to hear that you, too, believe that difficulties can be resolved as quickly as possible. In a broader perspective, there is still room for improvement for SNCB as regards the transparency of operation and open data. Maybe there's something else about to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u34	Minister, especially during this crisis, it is important that people make maximum use of that app so that we do not get overcrowded trains. It might be more user-friendly not to wait until the end of the year for the app to be integrated. It is important, after all, to provide the passengers with the correct information. I did not receive an answer to my last question. I hope to see results there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u35	Mr Minister, in recent years, various interest groups have been in favour of a thorough reorganisation of SNCB's transport offer. In their view, the track of the future should be structured according to the Swiss model, consisting of a synchronous, cadenced train offering, based on decentralised connection nodes. An integrated service is being set up and these hubs will become real multimodal hubs. Pleas in this direction have already been conducted in the past by the Advisory Committee of Train Travellers, Agoria and Integrato, which is a partnership between TrainTramBus, Bond Beter Leefmilieu, Greenpeace and Inter-Environment. These latter parties also came together to explain their vision in the Mobility Committee of 3 June 2020. The railway companies themselves have also taken up the dossier in the past. Preparatory studies have already been carried out. I refer, for example, to Infrabel's Phoenix study from 2009. I have the following questions, Minister. What are the findings or findings of SNCB and Infrabel regarding the possibility of introducing a cadancated decentralised rail supply? What studies have been carried out on this subject? I would have liked to have received a full list from you. What were the conclusions of those studies? What has been started with these studies, including in the field of policy? Can you make those documents available to the Chamber in response to my oral question? What practical, technical, infrastructure or other objections could prevent or delay the realisation of such a rail supply? How do you see the future of the IC/IR model, which is now over 30 years old? Mr. Secretary, it's older than I am. Maybe it's time for a refreshment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u36	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, that vision fits 100% of my own vision, which I set out in my general policy paper. It is also what Integrato has worked out and proposed in the Chamber. It's a real source of inspiration for me. I got an answer from three pages. It is a rather technical answer, Mr Roggeman. I won't read it. If you can agree to this, I will give you the answer in writing. That seems more appropriate to me, otherwise I have three pages to read. I can do that, but I can also forward the answer today. It's not secret. It's ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u37	I agree with your proposal, Minister. Our agenda is busy enough as it is. So you don't have to read everything. That means, of course, that I am in happy expectation of your answer. I cannot therefore reply to you at the moment, but I look forward to receiving that document from you. As a reply, I hope that the objections of a technical or other nature are acceptable and that they do not mean that the realization or execution of a cadancing offer is postponed. We may agree on the objective, but I also understand from your policy paper that you are setting it up around the year 2040. Maybe that's a little too much of a good thing when it comes to preparation. I look forward to your answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u38	Minister, Eurostar and Thalys have been communicating plans for some time to start a merger. The various shareholders, including SNCB, met a few months ago to discuss these plans. In the communication last year, SNCF's top shareholder, one of the main shareholders of both companies, said that the merger should have been completed by 2021. Minister, where are we on the planned merger? What impact will this merger have on SNCB, on Infrabel and on their operation, on ticket sales, on the operation of the rail network and on the share these companies would retain in a merged organisation? What requirements will be imposed on the language skills of staff within the newly merged organisation for the provision of services on Belgian territory? What participation will SNCB have as a shareholder in the future decision-making of that merged company?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u39	SNCB recalls that your questions relate to the commercial activities of an independent railway operator in a liberalised market, in which SNCB is a minority shareholder. The merger of Thalys and Eurostar is still under study. The shareholders, including SNCB, hope to complete the operation in the course of this year. The merger will then have to be approved by the competent European authorities. I repeat that Thalys and Eurostar are independent companies and carry out their own personnel policies. Your questions about the language skills of the staff should be addressed directly to them. With the exception of guidance assignments for the studies of the project, the project does not entail direct costs for the shareholders. In addition to the intended operational synergy, the Green Speed Project aims to lay the foundations for a European company for sustainable high-speed mobility on the basis of five objectives. Firstly, by 2030, an attractive alternative to road traffic and aircraft offer almost 30 million passengers a year. Secondly, a high-speed supply based on renewable energy and an ambitious environmental policy. Thirdly, simplified international routes for each customer. Fourthly, an attractive price offer and a common loyalty programme. Fifthly, a quality, warm, attentive and multicultural service. It's a great program. It should be noted that Eurostar and Thalys are currently reviewing their short-term and long-term business models. This includes the introduction of a comprehensive recovery plan to better cope with the crisis. As you know, the trains are also affected by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u40	Mr Minister, I will continue to follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 55011001C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u42	Minister, the Mobility FPS carried out a study with 2,000 Belgians to identify the brakes and incentives for the use of public transport. It shows that our citizens feel that our public transport is too expensive, especially the train. Indeed, a quarter of respondents identified the reduction in the cost of travel as the proposal that would encourage greater use of it. The second point is the lack of flexibility and efficiency. Many people are effectively discouraged by the time they take to reach their destination via public transport, but also by the fact that their destination or home is poorly or not at all served. Moreover, although SNCB has already improved significantly on this point, the punctuality of trains is also considered an obstacle for one in two Belgians. Minister, are initiatives being considered to make train journeys more attractive from a tariff point of view? What measures can be taken to further improve the punctuality of trains? Is it envisaged to add lines and/or connections to compensate for the lack of service in some stations? The connecting nodes mentioned in the government agreement would be a good solution to make public transport more accessible, flexible and efficient. In concrete terms, how would this arrangement be and how would it be put in place? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u43	Mrs Zanchetta, thank you for summarising this very interesting study of the Mobility FPS, which, if it has not yet been done, should be read by all the members of your committee. First of all, I would like to remind you that my ambition, as Minister for Mobility, is that there are more trains, that they are more reliable, more punctual, more accessible and that there are therefore more passengers. The long-term vision, the objective (perhaps also a response to the President), does not mean that we will wait for the long term to move forward. This will be the case whenever possible. My long-term vision is to guarantee trains every 30 minutes in every train station in the country, and every 10 minutes in the big cities. We must set a clear and distant objective to achieve, one after the other, all the steps necessary to achieve this, without waiting for this term to propose improvements in the situation in favour of the users of the train. With regard to your first question on tariffs, it appears from various comparative studies that SNCB's tariffs are rather low compared to those in many other European countries. The average price of a second-class ticket in Belgium is 40% lower than in other European countries. The SNCB tariff is the lowest in Western Europe. Furthermore, it appears that rail transport in all EU countries has become more expensive than other modes of transport, except in Belgium and Sweden. It turns out that in the period 2005-2014, SNCB's tariffs decreased by about 1% each year compared to other modes of transport. This is indeed a comparison. Having said that, I will be very careful to ensure that the train remains affordable, even more affordable for as many people as possible, and that it is attractive compared to other modes of travel. As part of my policy note, I explained that even more advantageous tariffs could be considered during off-peak hours. The punctuality of trains has improved compared to previous years. Of course, the health crisis has created a very special situation, but I would nevertheless like to point out that SNCB maintains a maximum offer for its users in this time of crisis, despite the circumstances, in order to assure them and SNCB staff of the conditions of travel which meet the health and safety requirements, so as to avoid crowded trains. In addition to my long-term vision mentioned in the introduction, I aim to increase the supply of trains on a regular basis. SNCB plans announce an offer that will increase by a minimum of 4.7% over the period 12/2020 to 2023. The first effects have already been felt last December. The extension will continue in phases, taking into account the availability of infrastructure, equipment and staff. I do share your opinion on the correspondence nodes, which have already proven their usefulness abroad. Switzerland, Germany and Austria inspire us, and my will is to set up this type of model in Belgium with my fellow Ministers for Regional Mobility, with whom collaboration has been rather positive so far, and I am confident that this will continue. SNCB also supports this vision and is already fully collaborating on the concept of MoBIB points. In terms of intermodality, it invests in the transition to sustainable mobility, by setting up the surroundings of its stations, notably within the framework of the Plan Boost, and applying the STOP principle: stappen, trapten, openbaar vervoer, parking. First pedestrians, then cyclists, public transport and then parking, by providing 50,000 additional bike pitches by 2025 and systematically making stations perfectly accessible to people with reduced mobility. In collaboration with the federated entities, SNCB is taking the necessary steps to integrate the consultation bodies and mobility basins that were set up in 2019, so that all mobility actors can think together about the development of intermodal nodes. This is also the logic of the roadshows that have now been held in recent years; I find this very positive. Mrs Zanchetta, it is through dialogue and co-construction that we can make the train even more attractive to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u44	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. This makes me more optimistic about the future of SNCB. You are right to point out that the report deserves to be read, even if the press did not mention it until the end of last year, in November. In fact, we are no longer fully up to date, but the subject remains current. You have pointed out a very important element in your answer. This is the vision of dialogue with users. Indeed, I think it is by listening to what users have to say and propose, and by reading these surveys, that we can better meet their expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u45	Mr. President, Minister, the study of the Mobility FPS reveals that one in three women consider harassment as an obstacle to public transportation (hands with buttocks, forced kisses, frictions, exhibitions). Sexual assaults are common in public transport. In an era of ecological awareness, where citizens are increasingly being encouraged to adopt more environmentally friendly behaviour, encouraging public transport seems essential. To do so, however, it is inevitable to fight against this feeling of insecurity experienced by some women. Minister, do you have any figures on the number of cases of harassment on trains in recent years? What to do in case of harassment or sexual assault on a train? How does SNCB help victims? What measures already exist to combat these forms of aggression? Are other initiatives possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I would like to echo Mrs Zanchetta's question. She has already given the figures. A study by the FPS Mobility shows that one in three women mentions fear of unwanted behaviour as one of the reasons why they avoid public transport. Last year there were 400 reports of sexual violence on public transport. That's what the federal police figures show. Those numbers scare me. They're gonna have to call us to action. You will agree with me that public transport should be just a place where one can be comfortable, where one can dream away carefree, look outside, work for a while and read a book or a newspaper. We know that this is a problem and it is not new. Behaviour and crime are a problem in our society, including for people taking the train. We must dare to name it and dare to do so. I am convinced that social control is one remedy against this. But of course, empty carriages and abandoned stations are often a safe passage for this inappropriate behavior. The policy of the past few years, closing more points of contact and letting stations go down was, in my opinion, a wrong path. You stated that you wanted to focus more on the presence of staff, also early and late in the day. That's important. I also very much believe in a campaign to encourage travellers to help each other, to react and to try to prevent this. A collection of all these things must ensure that we can tackle these problems. It is also important to be able to call for help more quickly. There is an emergency number for Securail to report problems, but Securail is not present in every train or station, certainly not in the evening. In addition, I wonder if all travellers know the emergency number enough. It also needs to be made more public. Only in new train sets is an SOS button present. In the trains where such a button is not present, this phone number might be made more visible so that people know where to go. Finally, the trade unions have been asking for a second colleague to be on board the late trains for years. Hence some questions for you. The first one is the same as Mrs. Zanchetta's. Do you have eyes on the number of incidents on the train? What efforts can and will SNCB and Securail make to address the feeling of insecurity? I've made some suggestions. Where can travellers now ask for help? How can we ensure that passengers can seek help more quickly and that they are indeed called upon to do so? How can the presence of Securail be strengthened in the evening? What is your opinion on the trade unions' request for a second train guide to be taken on board by default on late trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u47	Mr Minister, my fellow Members have already referred to the BeMob survey, according to which one third of women feel unwanted behaviour by other passengers, but also one in five men face such difficulties on the train. Apparently, it's a reason to choose other modes of traffic. I have the following questions. Firstly, SNCB itself carries out surveys among its passengers, including on safety. Do the same conclusions emerge? Secondly, how many reports of unwanted behaviour has Securail received in the last five years? I would like to have an overview of that. Thirdly, what action plans are under way to combat unwanted behaviour and insecurity on the train? Fourthly, according to your policy paper, you are aiming at a drastic increase in the supply of trains. How many additional security personnel will it take to ensure safety in that extensive train supply? How much money do you make available for the deployment of additional security personnel? How many new staff will be needed for this? I'd like to get a breakdown on Securail and the railroad police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u48	Thank you for these questions on this essential subject. Safety is one of the priorities of SNCB and myself. SNCB pays particular attention to social security and the sense of security among its customers and staff, with prevention and dissuasive patrols in stations and trains. In 2019 Securail accompanied 60,000 trains. The rail domain counted 8.456 cameras at the end of last year. Since 4 May 2020, Securail and police have also carried out checks on compliance with the measures taken in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis, such as wearing a mouth mask or an alternative in the stations and trains. SNCB has no figures on the number of complaints lodged with the court for acts of sexual aggression committed in trains and stations. For this data, I refer to my colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department. On the other hand, SNCB is able to encrypt the number of calls received by its Security Operations Center (SOC) for acts of morality on trains and at railway stations. The trend in recent years is on the rise as SOC received 173, 180 and 197 calls for morals in 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively. By comparison, SOC received more than 90,000 calls in 2019, all incidents combined. As a result, there is an increase, but the figures are relative to the number of reported incidents. Nevertheless, every act of morality is a fact of too much. I would like to stress that the enforcement of attacks remains primarily the responsibility of the police. However, SNCB's Corporate Security Service has made monitoring these events its top priority. As a reminder, the anti-aggression masterplan contains some 50 measures aimed at limiting acts of aggression. For example, the Securail safety service reinforces its presence on the first and last trains as well as on trains considered to be at risk. The emergency number 0800 is also displayed in the railway infrastructure in order to allow the security and police services to be notified and to intervene as soon as possible. In addition, the new SNCB trains are equipped with a surveillance camera system to deter potential attackers, but also to facilitate the prosecution of perpetrators. Finally, each train attendant is trained to address, among other things, how to respond to difficult situations, particularly in the event of aggression. In addition to these measures, SNCB wishes to address specifically the acts of morals committed in the rail sector and to finalize a specific action plan, with all my encouragement. This plan should be based on several axes and include various measures such as communication campaigns and techno-prevention measures. It goes without saying that collaboration between all police services will be an essential element of this approach, just as the social control you have cited – the more people on trains, the less this feeling of insecurity will be present – the proper lighting of stations and stop points, ensuring a presence, including when there is no counter on trains. With SNCB, I am committed to working on all these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is probably very difficult to obtain the exact figures of the number of attacks. [[I heard what you're proposing to try to stop the phenomenon.]] We therefore look forward to learning a little more about SNCB's specific action plan on this subject. I also understand that the emergency number 0800 must be highlighted in trains. It is indeed useful, in case of a problem, to have a contact number in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The train is freedom. I really appreciate that plea. It is true that the train is often a relief, for example for those who used to work in traffic jams and can now get on a train and sit in it quietly on the way to work or home. However, we must ensure that the train remains free and that that freedom applies to everyone. It is not always easy for people with disabilities to take the train. Soon we will organise a hearing to see how we can adapt a few things in this area. I would very much like to hear you say that you consider security to be important and very important, which is why you are working with SNCB and with the police on an action plan on security. In this context, I would like to emphasise two things. First of all, I think the existing song is far too little known. SNCB can record this fairly quickly, by hanging the safety number in the train compartments without camera surveillance or without a SOS button at least very visibly. Secondly, there can be a campaign that encourages travellers to help each other, for greater solidarity. I believe that these two things can be achieved in the very short term. I hope that it can be used in conjunction with your action plan. In this way, I believe that we can indeed allow the train to be free for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You mentioned the figures. It is shocking to see how many moral facts are still being established in the trains and stations. You are talking about action plans and information on the publication of telephone numbers and the like. That is all well and good, but security personnel must also be able to follow. People need to be ready to intervene effectively on the ground whenever necessary and such a situation arises. I had a number of questions about staffing and financing of Securail. You are referring to your colleague from the Interior. However, I would like to call on you to discuss this with your Home Affairs colleague, too, in order to see how the staffing framework of Securail and the railway police can be further strengthened in line with the extension of the railway service you are planning. If the train supply increases effectively, as you have planned, but the safety staff remains constant, this simply means more work for the same staff. There is then a risk that complaints about moral facts will once again remain unanswered. We must avoid that at all times. So this is a constructive appeal to your address.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u52	Minister, I thank you for your answers, which, in view of the few figures available to us, nevertheless bear witness to a growing phenomenon which we must worry about. I hear that measures have been taken: cameras have been placed, train attendants are being trained and posters are being glued to our stations. In addition, Securail carries out checks on compliance with health rules, but only for this purpose. I would therefore like to appeal to you: in addition to these checks, others could be deployed to ensure that the safety of travellers is respected. I also hear that we are dealing here with the powers of the Minister of the Interior. That is why I invite you to work with her, as well as with associations that do a tremendous amount of awareness and information about harassment, reminding you of the state of the legislation, but also giving advice to avoid abusers or react to their behaviour. Anyway, please ask for their expertise. The challenge is to ensure that shame changes sides, so that it is no longer felt by the victims, but by the aggressors. In this way, victims will be able to reconcile with public transport in which they must be able to feel safe. This is the least we can expect from a public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u53	Minister, in your policy statement you stated that you intend to conclude a new management agreement with SNCB. Let us hope that you have more success there than your predecessor. In this new management contract, as has been the case, a section will be devoted to increased ticket and subscription fees, including for people with a disability or other matters giving rise to a tariff reduction. A few years ago, members of my party put forward the initiative of the European Disability Card, which is important for persons with visible or invisible limitations. An answer to a question to your predecessor has shown that the NBMS does not want to accept this EDC as valid evidence for an increased concession for the time being. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is your position on this? Are you planning to include the EDC in the new management agreement with SNCB as a criterion for an increased concession? How many subscribers benefit from an increased allowance today? I'd like to get an overview of that. What are SNCB's future expectations of these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u54	Mr Roggeman, I can reassure you. In the coming months, we will take the European Disability Card into account in the reflection on the new public service contract. About 200,000 to 230,000 rightholders renew their cards each year and there are about 10,000 people over 65 whose card is valid for five years. I can give you the table showing the number of validations of mother cards over the last five years. After COOVID-19, I expect a lot more people with disabilities on the train, thanks to all the measures we have taken and work carried out to make the trains, stations and platforms more accessible. However, I cannot give you an exact figure. The aim is to reach a maximum number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you are prepared to include that EDC in the future public service contract. That is another reason to hope that this will come and get a quick start. Indeed, the previous version of the management agreement expired in 2012 and was renewed several times. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u56	Mr Minister, three diesel lines are still operating in East Flanders today where old polluting technology is being used. So far, there was no plan to renew the technology there. I would have liked to ask you about the slopes for the future, particularly in the context of the new technologies that have been on the rise for several years. There are already pilot projects abroad relating to hybrid trains, hydrogen trains, battery trains and self-driving trains. Minister, in your policy paper you announced that you would like to increase the number of trains drastically, which will mean an increase in the number of trains. How many will it be? When will the following specifications for new trains be published? What budget do you pay for the purchase of these? What is your assessment of the use of new technologies in future deliveries? What pilot projects do you plan on hybrid technology, hydrogen and battery trains or self-driving trains? Do you have any preference at this stage with regard to the technologies that could be switched on on our network, in particular to replace diesel trains? As Minister of a Green Party, what is your position on the position of your predecessors, who wanted the polluting diesel locomotives to run until at least 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u57	Mr President, Minister, SNCB decided in mid-December to order a second disc M7 from Bombardier-Alstom, where the first disc was of course also ordered. This is, of course, and in several respects a very good thing for all train users in our country. In communication, and that is the specificity of my question, it was reported that those 200 carriages that form the second disc will be built in Bruges. In December 2015, when the contract for the first disc was signed, that promise was also made under Bombardier. However, that promise was broken just as quickly once the contract was signed. Important work on these M7 moved to France and that happened despite all promises made at the negotiating table and in the press. What did Bombardier promise in connection with the construction site of these 200 carriages? What guarantees were given for this? Will we be able to monitor these guarantees? When will the first devices of this second disc be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u58	Mr President, Minister, before Christmas we heard the good news that EUR 450 million would be invested in another 200 additional M7 vehicles on top of the previous order of 445 units. Very good news is also that 130 of them will be autonomously accessible carriages, which will also make it easy for people with disabilities to get on and off. This investment is more than necessary in the context of a catch-up that we need to make. We have seen in the past that passenger numbers increase if we continue to accommodate, but then we will need new carriages. On the occasion of the good news of the extra order I liked to get an update on the first order of 445 M7 carriages. How many of these have been delivered? How many can we expect in 2021? When can we expect the 200 additional trains? Can you also tell us what this means in terms of the capacity to carry bicycles on the train, in addition to the 20,000 extra seats that this will bring?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u59	Mr President, Minister, SNCB decided in September 2020 that every M7 train should be accessible autonomously so that passengers with reduced mobility can take the train independently. To this end, an order of 130 autonomously accessible carriages was placed in December. Those carriages will also have an adapted toilet and an intercom system for wheelchair users. In addition, 68 additional carriages were ordered with space for passengers with bicycles and prams. Bombardier- Alstom committed himself to delivering the first autonomously accessible carriages in 2024. For example, each M7 train will be able to run with an autonomously accessible carriage, supplemented by a steering gear that can accommodate passengers and bicycles. Achieving maximum autonomy is good for people with reduced mobility, but also for travellers who want to take their bike, this offers extra comfort. Hopefully, from 2024 onwards, passengers will actually see an improvement in accessibility, something they have been waiting for for for some time. There is still a long way to go, and there is also a need to adapt to station infrastructure. After all, an autonomously accessible train on a platform that is not accessible does not cause any problems. Minister, on what lines will the M7 devices which are autonomously accessible be deployed? What adjustments are still needed to make these stations fully accessible? Will these stations be given priority? Can autonomously accessible coaches also be used on other types of trains? Will this happen from 2024? Is SNCB also looking for solutions to add an autonomously accessible carriage to other types of trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u60	It is true that, as a minister, I would like to focus on extending the offer to travellers. I have already expressed my ambition to make trains and stations accessible. It is true that these plans have an impact on the need for rolling stock and therefore the upcoming purchase files. My cabinet is in constant consultation with SNCB on this matter. You had a question about the use of new technologies, Mr Roggeman. A distinction can be made between alternative drive modes for trains and technologies such as ATO, Automatic Train Operation. SNCB operates on both axes. For example, on behalf of the FPS Mobility, a study was carried out on the possible alternatives for the use of diesel traction in the operation of the unelectricised railway lines. The study has now been completed. Infrabel and SNCB together consider which option is best in the Belgian context. SNCB does, however, point to the specific context. In Germany, tests are soon to be launched with a view to purchasing this type of equipment, to deploy 3,000 kilometres of their rail network which has not yet been electrified. This corresponds to 39% of the network. In Belgium, however, more than 97% of the network has already been electrified. This high degree of electrification provides a specific context and makes the start-up of tests with, for example, a hydrogen train not so simple and meaningful. With regard to the purchase of the additional M7 vehicles, it is my belief that trains and stations should be accessible to everyone, regardless of their state of health or physical possibilities. I am therefore pleased that SNCB has taken this into account when purchasing the new M7 vehicles. Bombardier provides the carriages with the new orders to finish on the Brugge site as is the case with the current order. Contractually, SNCB cannot impose or enforce a specific production site. However, the manufacturer must always keep SNCB informed of the production site and the suppliers concerned. SNCB shall ensure compliance with the quality requirements in production. If the manufacturer is considering a change of production site, he must have the quality effect on the new site approved by SNCB. By the end of December 2020 a 40-piece M7 carriages of the first order had been delivered. In the course of 2021, SNCB provides for the inflow of 150 other coaches. From the new order the first BX-cars can be delivered from April 2023. The first totally new to develop and re-homogenized BD carriages will be delivered from March 2024. The M7 trains will be used mainly for the IC connections crossing the Brussels North-South link. Each M7 train will be able to run with an autonomously accessible carriage, supplemented by a steering gear that can accommodate passengers and bicycles. These double-deck carriages will be used in train sets with M7 equipment and can only be used in combination with certain other types of rolling stock. SNCB investigates the existence of solutions to make other rolling stock accessible autonomously, e.g. by applying an external ramp for the Desiro motor sets. As I said earlier, making the Belgian rail system accessible requires heavy investment in both infrastructure and rolling stock. That's why I put the Boost Plan on the table. The infrastructure, which requires heavy investment, involves both SNCB and Infrabel. These funds should be included in the investment plan and there should be a proper coordination between SNCB and Infrabel. The longer term ambition is to make the use of assistance unnecessary as far as possible by using autonomously accessible equipment. The assistance process remains a threshold because the customer must reserve and remains dependent on the presence of the assistance provider.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u61	Minister, I am pleased that the study of the FPS Mobility is being carried out. I will ask them through a written question and I am curious about their results and their policy translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u62	You reassure me, Minister, because you confirm the information I already had. You made clear arrangements with Bombardier in Bruges. It is very positive that you and the SNCB have done so, but you can't force that - that's nobody's mistake - indeed not legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u64	Minister, we too will continue to monitor the matter. I am pleased that the necessary steps will also be taken in the field of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u65	Mr President, Minister, this question dates from before Christmas. The discussion we had at the beginning shows that it is still not always going smoothly and that there are still a lot of delays. What is the state of affairs with regard to the cabinet? Have all the posts been filled in? Is the cabinet working at full speed now? How many employees does your cabinet consist of? How many full-time equivalents do you have on your team? Are you going to commit yourself to answering our written and oral questions within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u66	Mrs. Vindevoghel, everything is going well in my cabinet. I have the privilege of working with cool and smart people. They're doing their best to get you the best answer. Today, January 12, my cabinet has not yet been fully established, but it works, for which I thank my staff. They are not always visible, but a minister cannot work without employees and collaborators. Of the 57 planned full-time equivalents for my position as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mobility, 42 full-time equivalents are currently employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u67	Mr. Secretary, that's it. Much respect for the many employees who work behind the scenes. Above all, we hope that we can work well together and that we will receive answers to our questions within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u68	Minister, I also asked Mrs De Sutter this question because she was responsible for the post and she thought that the re-use of the mail train was a nice idea. Some of you may remember that Bpost and SNCB worked together until 2003 to distribute mail. The last postal trains were operated from the mail sorting centres Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi and drove to Brussels. However, the postal train reached its final station at the time that ABX Logistics, the logistics leg of SNCB, was placed for sale in the shop window. The private freight companies did not take over those activities. Maybe they weren't profitable enough. As an ecologist, you agreed to double the volume of freight rail transport by 2030. One can take an initiative immediately and start with public enterprises. After all, the restart of the mail train would be a nice initiative, especially when we see how many vans are driving around in our cities. Minister, how do you feel about this? Will you seriously investigate the re-introducing of the mail train in Belgium? Will you discuss this with your colleague from State companies De Sutter? Does the government have a role to play in replacing trucks on the road with rail freight? If so, what solutions do you see here? Several European countries are still using postal trains today. Maybe one can study that? Can the counters in the stations also serve as a pick-up point for packages? Do you think that's an option? How does SNCB deal with internal mail today? Does SNCB still have an internal postal service or does it already call on bpost or other partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u69	Mrs Vindevoghel, it is a sympathetic idea from the past, but it is not up to me or the SNCB to tell us whether the packets of bpost can be transported by train again. If desired, bpost can contact a freighter or operator, which is not the SNCB and Infrabel, to re-attach such a mail train. The old management contract of SNCB, dated 2012, states that it is responsible for the transport of passengers. Its staff therefore play an essential role in the safety of passengers and the train for which it is responsible. It also carries out commercial tasks and information tasks. SNCB does not wish to add to this tasks, such as the management of packages, which would ensure that train escorts would no longer be able to carry out their essential information and safety tasks properly. Indeed, the government has a role to play in stimulating rail freight transport. The objective of the Government and the Minister for Mobility is to double the volume of rail freight by 2030 through support for the sector and better cooperation between transport actors and Infrastructure. I'm working hard on this, along with my 42 employees. As far as your question of picking up packages at the counter is concerned, SNCB points out that there are already vending machines available at many stations. If SNCB offered parcel services such as Kiala or PostPunt, the infrastructure of the counters should be adapted. Today the counters in our small stations are not equipped for the exchange of packages. To do that, the countertist should leave his secure space. SNCB does indeed have a service which ensures the internal mail service, but also calls on bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Your colleague, responsible for bpost, is also a green minister. I think it's interesting to sit together and see if there's any possibility of doing anything in that area. I think there's some thought trails to limit the transport by road. I see no contradiction between the priority for passengers and a package service. It used to be perfect together. I think it is worth looking at this, especially in the context of the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u71	Minister, I am not going to ask my question. I'm going to turn them into a written question so I can read the answer quietly. The demand dates from 30 November 2020 and is based on the figures for the first nine months of 2020. In the meantime, we're in the middle of January. In fact, this question is somewhat outdated and I fear that the answer also dates from the end of November or early December. This is a subject that calls for a broader debate. I'm going to read the answer quietly, if you'll give it to me. Perhaps we can have a debate on this in the future. I find the way in which we work, which leaves us behind with questions, difficult, because we sometimes miss out on topicality. Perhaps, together with the committee secretariat and the committee bureau, we should reflect on how we can organise this. In order to speed things up, I put my questions to you. 55011262C, No. 55011264C and No. 55011268C in a written question. I understand, by the way, that with regard to the question of roads for the carriage of goods, that is no. 55011268C, which a colleague had already converted into a written question at a previous committee meeting and received an answer, but I have not yet received a written reply. I look forward to the written answers to those questions so that we can move forward a little faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u72	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, it is a bit of a disappointment to me that you do not ask your question about the safety of cyclists. After all, I have a very interesting and important answer here on an important subject. The answer is not dated, it is indeed a question from November, but the answer was updated by my cabinet with 42 employees, Mrs Vindevoghel. I will give you the answer in writing. I hope that we will have the time and opportunity to talk about this, because cyclists are also important in terms of mobility. Mr van den Bergh, I think you agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u73	Minister, in November there was already a request from the three trade unions to sit together as a matter of urgency. A strike notice was also submitted at the end of December. So the situation with skeyes remains precarious. You promised us you'd contact the unions. Hence these questions, Minister. The unions had invited you to a meeting. Has that taken place in the meantime? How'd that go? Will you ask the management of skeyes to create a better framework for social dialogue? Will your cabinet examine the social dialogue at skeyes and make recommendations to improve social dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u74	As mentioned in the reply to Mrs Jiroflée's oral question in 2020, there was already a meeting between my cabinet, the 42 employees and the social partners of skeyes. I can confirm that I have thus met with the unions of skeyes. That was a warm and very constructive meeting. They have shared their comments with me in a very nuanced way. I'll meet the management of skeyes soon. As I said in the same answer, I will, of course, be very careful to ensure that all companies under my supervision, not only skeyes, but also SNCB and Infrabel and so on, are managed efficiently and in compliance with the social convention. I think it is important that social dialogue takes place within the company and is not dependent on the Minister's activity or direct intervention, even if the Minister has a lot of attention to it, which is the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u75	Yesterday I received a message from a member of staff who urged me to remind you that the social dialogue must be pursued. In November, these people asked the question. We are now at the beginning of January 2021 and there is still no reconciliation. This kind of thing drags on for a very long time. I don't think this is possible. We've been through this several times. It's still a problem. We have had hearings in which the same problem has been raised, and to date this has not been resolved. I really hope that these talks will go forward and that Mr Decuyper will take the time to engage in dialogue with Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u76	Mr President, Minister, last summer the federal government released EUR 60 million to mitigate the impact of the corona crisis on air traffic controller skeyes. They were necessary to ensure continuity of operation. Due to the corona crisis, air operations have declined considerably, leading to a large cash shortage in the case of skeyes. Earlier it became known that skeyes estimated the loss of income from the coronavirus to be at least 100 million euros. In addition to state aid, the company was already promised assistance from Eurocontrol, the European air traffic controller. Now we saw that skeyes spent less essential expenses in recent months, such as a hot air balloon of 150,000 euros for recreational use and a new light commercial worth 42,000 euros. Both purchases do not seem to us to be essential purchases for a company which owns the monopoly over its activities in Belgium and Luxembourg and which has just received millions of additional State aid. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How big will the estimated loss be for skeyes by 2020? Do you have any recent figures on this? Is it true that skeyes bought a hot air balloon for 150,000 euros? What is it used for? How many times has it been used? Was this a necessary purchase? Is it true that skeyes also launched a new light commercial in 2020? What is the cost of that? Staff are asking themselves a lot of questions because they were asked for savings, while expenditure is being made which they do not think is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the amount of EUR 60 million should be broken down as follows. Firstly, EUR 25 million was granted as a dot. According to the financial mechanisms laid down in the management contract, skeyes has a duty to honour the State's participation in international organisations such as Eurocontrol and MUAC. Since air traffic has declined particularly sharply and the revenues of skeyes have been drastically reduced, it was not considered inconsistent to support skeyes by giving it a dot to compensate for the expenses that skeyes has incurred in that respect. Secondly, EUR 20 million was granted as a loan to skeyes. That amount will have to pay back skeyes. Third, the remaining EUR 15 million consists of an anticipation of the amounts to be paid by the State under the F-factor laid down in the Royal Decree of 20 December 2019, so that they do not fluctuate as a result of the sudden decline in traffic. Due to the corona crisis and the drastic reduction in the number of flights, the revenues of skeyes fell dramatically in 2020. There are correction mechanisms that allow the company to recover a significant proportion of the losses taken into account in year n+2 in this case 2022 and laid down in European legislation. However, given the huge amounts lost and the financial difficulties faced by the airlines, some of these mechanisms are being re-examined within the European authorities in order to assess the extent to which mechanisms can be considered to take into account in real time the significant reduction in flight volume, in support of air traffic control. As for your questions about the expenditure of skeyes, although the company has a high degree of autonomy in managing purchases and investments, they are automatically well monitored. In order to be completely transparent, I have also asked myself the questions you have. I have asked skeyes to provide me with additional, useful information on this expenditure. I will continue to pay attention to the relevance of the expenditure and the financial situation of the State in question. I have heard that a decision was taken on the issue of expenditure and that the relevant contracts were signed in 2019. In particular, in the context of the name change of the Belgocontrol to skeyes company, an information and advertising campaign was decided within the company, following an investigation which showed that the new name of skeyes was not yet sufficiently known and that further action had to be taken to do so. In this context, lighting was ordered on the roundabout of the Tervurensteenweg, to bring the company to the attention of the passing motorists. The contract for the lighting elements worth EUR 30,782 was concluded following an open tender awarded on 23 August 2019. On the other hand, after contacts with the aviation industry, the idea of sponsoring a hot air balloon was born to further increase the fame of the name skeyes among the players on the field. On 2 December 2019, following an open tender, a contract was concluded for a period of five years, with an annual payment of 12,200 euros. In return, the operator shall fly at least 50 hours a year with a hot air balloon with the logo of skeyes. In 2020, only 17 hours were flown due to health restrictions and flight bans related to the corona pandemic. As contractually agreed, the non-effect hours are transferred to the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u78	Mr. Secretary, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel feels that my cabinet is not working and that I am not answering. This was a clear and complete answer, made by my 42 employees, whom I thank once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u80	Minister, I hope you will not repeat that. It was said what was said. I'll see you there. I have two comments on skeyes. Firstly, staff cannot appreciate such expenditure while saving. Secondly, I am glad that you are following this up more closely and that you have asked these questions. That is a good thing. I would like to tell you that there have been several HR managers at skeyes in the last five years. Well, that shows there's a problem. The current HR manager charges 1,300 euros per day. So there are some things that need to be sorted out urgently, especially when it comes to asking the staff to turn in. Then I think the company should be more careful about spending.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55011268C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u82	This is a topical issue, as vaccines are widely distributed. Mr President, how do you see the distribution of vaccines for staff? Will your cabinet carry out a risk analysis in relation to the vaccination of the personnel you are responsible for, in particular for SNCB, Infrabel and skeyes? Are SNCB, Infrabel or skeyes asking to vaccinate their employees? Do you think there are employees at risk jobs? Do the staff of SNCB, Infrabel and skeyes, in your opinion, belong to a risk group or a group of social and economic interests, which means that they need to be vaccinated more quickly? Can SNCB's internal medical service play a role in vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u83	Mrs Vindevoghel, first of all, in the case of SNCB and skeyes, risk analyses have been carried out, as required by the law on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work. Secondly, SNCB certainly wants its staff to be vaccinated, but follows the Sciensano guidelines. The question has not yet been explicitly asked by skeyes. However, it should be borne in mind that skeyes are subject to a management contract in which essential services for humanitarian flights and flights in distress are crucial. It is therefore necessary to ensure that that target group can continue to perform its role as a service provider. In addition, account should be taken of the fact that, depending on the volume of air traffic, there is sufficient staff available to ensure the provision of services. Thirdly, on the one hand, SNCB and on the other hand, air transport, airports and essential services supporting air transport, ground handling, air navigation, air traffic control and planning are among the private and public companies and services necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the nation and the needs of the population, as defined in the Annex to the Ministerial Decision of 1 November 2020. The report of the High Health Council entitled Vaccination strategy against COVID-19 in Belgium states the following. "He recommends that the following groups should be given priority in vaccination against COVID-19 on the basis of available data and statistical analysis: firstly, all health professionals; secondly, all persons over 65 years of age; thirdly, patients aged between 45 and 65 years of age with comorbidities at risk of developing a serious form of COVID-19, and thereafter the people in essential professions." We're hoping we can get a quick vaccination. The campaign evolves continuously and mainly depends on the availability of vaccines. Fourthly, HR Rail can certainly play a coordinating role in any future vaccination campaigns, together with the external office for prevention and protection at work, in close cooperation with the internal services for prevention and protection at work. However, this is not immediately discussed, because there are other priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u84	Minister, it may not be on the agenda yet, but it would be good if the public enterprises were already looking at how to organise things. In fact, SNCB and Infrabel are large companies and I hope that they will start working on this in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u85	As from 1 February 2021, SNCB will increase some rates as per its annual practice. A standard ticket will cost 0.65 % on average. The cost of living and school subscriptions is 1.95 %. Those are the slight price increases. The special Youth Holidays passes that allow young people up to 26 years of age to travel by train for an unlimited week or month during the school holiday become significantly more expensive. Those tickets will cost 18 and 29 euros respectively from 1 February. These are increases of 20% and 16%. The ten-ride tickets also make SNCB more expensive, but you can escape that by buying them digitally via the app instead of on paper. SNCB is launching this opportunity at the beginning of next year. The digital Standard Multi for 10 journeys in second class remains 83 euros compared to 86 euros for the paper version. The Youth Multi, the former GoPass, will be 53 euros, and 55 euros for the paper journey card. The Government Declaration states that SNCB would make tariffs simpler. That's not true when people look at this. Soon the rates will even differ between who has a smartphone and who buys a paper ticket. Do you agree to this approach? Do you recognise the price discrimination between digital tickets and non-digital tickets? Were you aware of the 20% price increase for the tickets aimed at young people during the holiday periods? How do you feel about this? Is this how young people will discover the train? How does SNCB account for such substantial price increases in the youth category? Close slots and then give discounts on digital tickets is the signal the SNCB gives. It chooses to decommission staff and SNCB sends the customer in this direction to stop using the counters. Is that also your vision on the track, knowing that a woman on the three dares not take the train out of fear of fellow travelers and empty stations? That is what we discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u86	Mrs Vindevoghel, we are living in a world of digitalisation, which is reinforced by the health crisis we are experiencing today. This has many positive effects, but it also deserves our attention to the weakest groups. SNCB offers its products through many channels. It notes that its customers are increasingly buying its products digitally. SNCB is following this trend and is therefore strongly committed to its sales through the digital channels in order to allow further growth. It is also a question of attractiveness of the train to a certain audience. SNCB points out that a price differentiation between sales channels has become a trend rather than an exception, and not only for the transport sector. Simplifying the supply of SNCB is constantly being examined. The digitisation of the passes fits in this context. Digital tickets are cheaper for a company. It is therefore normal to pass that reduction on to the users. It is also normal, and important, to retain non-digital tickets at an attractive rate. The Youth Holidays products were launched five years ago. Its price is extremely competitive and allows young people to travel flexibly and cheaply by train during the holiday. Since the launch of the product, it is the first time that the rates for the 1 month version are adjusted. Even after this price adjustment, prices for Youth Holidays products are very attractive to young people. SNCB wishes to stress that neither the Youth tickets nor the Youth Digital Multi prices have increased. The digitalisation of the passes has been created to reduce fraud cases on board trains and to create less discussion with the train guide. The passes were sometimes adjusted or corrected manually and this led to unnecessary discussions on board the train in the past. SNCB shall make every effort to ensure the safety of passengers through patrols, cameras, train escorts on board trains and also by reducing unnecessary discussion points around paper filling-in passes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u87	Minister, you say that the steps for young people must be competitive. I took my two daughters on the train to the Ardennes last weekend. They were very happy that they could use the free tickets, because for young people the train is still expensive. So I do not think it is a good signal to make price increases now, whereas we want to encourage everyone to take the train. I am sorry that they continue to make politics more expensive, especially for certain categories, such as young people. People who are not digital are also punished: if they do not have a computer, a ticket is more expensive. I do not think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frank Troast's 55011370C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u89	Mr President, Minister, best wishes to all. Unfortunately, we have not yet had the opportunity to meet virtually or physically this year. Minister, only 21 out of 546 stations in Belgium, which is less than 4%, allow each person with reduced mobility to travel independently to the station dock and take the train freely without any assistance. It must be noted that the stations of Huy and Waremme, the district from which I come, stations particularly frequented by commuters, are devoid of any equipment. With regard to this specific situation at Huy and Waremme stations, your predecessor, Mr. Bellot, told us that funding would be negotiated in the government's multi-year investment plan. The stations of Huy and Waremme would be included in the SNCB's proposal for a plan for a construction in the years 2025 or 2026, which is very late. Minister, what happens to the integrated plan of SNCB and Infrabel for the upgrading of docks and full accessibility for the period 2020-2030? Do you confirm the investment schedule for Huy and Waremme and can you specify the type of accessibility work planned for these two stations? SNCB recently established an Accessibility Coordinator to facilitate the life of PMRs. Does it have a mandate to improve the management policy of PMPs at SNCB? Finally, are you making contact with your colleagues regarding the accessibility of public transport for all persons with disabilities in order to facilitate their inclusion in our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u90	Mr Rigot, I also wish you all the best. I hope you will understand that my will is to pay particular attention to the accessibility of public transport and, in this case, trains. Efforts in this area will not only be continued, but will also be accelerated, in close consultation with SNCB and Infrabel. The negotiations between the two companies on the masterplan – which is available – since both must take place, are at the final stage and will be concluded later this month. Our common goal – contained in my policy note – is to reach an additional 250 stations that are accessible and autonomous by the end of 2030. The stations of Huy and Waremme are included in this plan, which aims to complete the respective projects by the end of 2024. The latter consist of raising the docks to 76 centimetres – which will now be the rule – and their accessibility by means of ramps or elevators for people with reduced mobility or cyclists. A preliminary study on this subject is under way. To answer another of your questions, the Accessibility Coordinator is responsible for implementing a strategy to make SNCB even more accessible and must also ensure that this requirement is integrated into all existing and future investment projects. To this end, it consults all internal and external stakeholders, such as the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities, Unia, the Wallonia-Brussels Accessibility Collective (CAWaB), technical offices, authorities, carriers and individual customers. I remember that your committee decided to hold hearings with some of these interlocutors. It would be interesting to fulfill this wish, if not already. Having said that, it is not up to me, as a minister, to determine the work of Parliament. Please therefore consider this parenthesis as a simple suggestion. Both in terms of well-being and mobility, competencies are divided in this country between the federal government and the Regions. There is regular consultation between SNCB and other operators to promote accessibility and interchangeability of the various modes of transport. I understand that there are still many efforts to make in this area, but believe that I have been working on it for a little more than a hundred days with ambition, rigour and energy. You can count on my determination in this area!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, this is good news. I am pleased to hear that the programme is well maintained for the stations of Huy and Waremme and that, in the light of your predecessor's response, it is hoped that the project will be advanced by a year or even two. This is excellent news for all people with reduced mobility who will be able to take advantage of our transport and travel independently where they want to. I wish you great courage in your duties. I have no doubt that we will still have an opportunity to discuss the matter. I am also convinced that you will be determined to meet the needs of all our users. Indeed, the very nature of public transport is to ensure accessibility to well-being for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u92	The Minister referred to the hearing on rail accessibility. For this purpose, the arrangements will be set out next week during the work. We were asked who would like to hear the groups during the hearings. The appointments will be made next week. Minister, you are immediately aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u93	Mr President, Minister, the renovated train station in Anderlecht is equipped with ramps and elevators accessible to the PMRs, and I welcome this. But it is learned that, if the station is accessible to the PMRs, there is no assistance service so that people in wheelchairs can access the cars. You will agree that a train station accessible to PMRs, without cars, will in no way enhance accessibility to public transport for people with disabilities. SNCB has already explained that the personal assistance service is not currently operational in Anderlecht. Minister, what will be your initiatives to offer this service at Anderlecht station? In addition, the personal assistance service up to 24 hours prior to departure is available at 132 of the 553 stations in the country – 24 per cent – and until 3 hours prior to departure at 41 stations, or just over 7 per cent, which remains very little. As part of your stated ambitions and promises on rail development, what are you looking at to improve the accessibility of the country's railway stations and rail car rides for PMRs? How many stations do they have infrastructure to access PMRs? Do you intend to hire staff assigned to personal assistance, so that the work done to make these stations accessible is not unnecessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u94	Mr President, contrary to legend, Mr Arens is not just asking questions about stations in the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u95	Minister, you see! Anything is possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u96	As I have just said in my policy statement, particular attention will be given under this legislation and, on my initiative, to improving accessibility. The accessibility of trains and stations must be universal for all, regardless of the state of health or mobility. Efforts in this area will be continued in close cooperation with SNCB and Infrabel, on the understanding that the initial situation which I inherit is very variable and in many respects is anything but optimal. This is the result of years of non-investment that I want to answer for, but for which past responsibilities must be clearly identified. I would like to inform you that the train station in Anderlecht - a stop point without personnel present, particularly well located which I have inaugurated - is well equipped with an infrastructure accessible to people with reduced mobility. The docks are already at the standard height of 76 cm and are equipped with podotactile markings; a sales machine is accessible to everyone and the station is equipped with two access ramps that meet the requirements of people with reduced mobility, namely a 5% slope and bearings every 10 metres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u97	The train station was built in accordance with SNCB's intention and ambition to double the number of stations accessible to people with reduced mobility in five years, to first move to 150 and then to 250 accessible stations. It is true, however, that the Anderlecht station does not have a permanent assistance service, in particular because it is a stop point with no staff present on the premises. However, travellers who wish to receive assistance may contact Brussels-Midi at any time, which is nearby and where all facilities are available. We are studying with SNCB how to ensure that in Desiro cars which Mr Arens does not like much - this is the subject of another question - but which have the merit of being up to the docks and therefore easily accessible, train attendants can allow people in wheelchairs to enter the cars. I've learned recently that we're not talking about cars for people, we're talking about cars. It's not a reproach, Mr. Arens. Currently, only 78 stations are accessible to people with reduced mobility. I regret that and do everything I can to improve the situation. The negotiations between SNCB and Infrabel, I have just told Mr Rigot, are at the final stage. They will be closed in January 2021 with the aim of arriving as quickly as possible at at least 250 accessible stations. Both at the level of well-being and mobility, competencies are distributed between federal authorities and other regions. We're communicating to make things better. You too can count on my determination to further improve the accessibility not only of stations but also of trains, by any means possible and available and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of your commitment, of course, and I know that it is serious. I'm still a little bit worried, because, lately, I read some of your statements in the newspapers that you said "hope" to convince your government partners to invest more on the rail. I hope that this will be done without great difficulty because rail is the future of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u99	Minister, thank you for these answers. I know how much SNCB and Infrabel invest in the accessibility of railway stations for people with reduced mobility or in wheelchairs, with a suitable assistance system. That was also the subject of Mr Rigot's question. Nevertheless, concrete prospects still need to be offered to these vulnerable people in order to access the station as such, but also to the trains, whatever the station they use, and a fortiori when it is all new and just opened. I confess that I am not entirely reassured about the accessibility of trains. I would like to stress this point. This is a legitimate demand of the voluntary sector and the citizens it represents, but it is also a question of respecting our international commitments. The right to accessibility for persons with reduced mobility is recalled in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and European Regulation 100/2014. In my view, these two instruments must guide all work on the development or renovation of railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u100	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels Region has recently communicated its SmartMove plan, including the smart kilometric tax. While it would affect thousands of Belgian Francophones, Dutch-speaking or Luxembourg-speaking, one can only regret the total lack of consultation between the Brussels Region and the other Regions, despite, in particular, a motion unanimously voted by the Walloon Parliament calling for prior consultation before any communication. We agree that taxation in this area must evolve in order to be more in line with the mobility of the 21st century. But not just how. Without a credible alternative, this tax will only be an additional tax that will hurt thousands of Belgians, as I have already said. You have said that you want to play your full role as federal minister on this issue, and I congratulate you on that. Minister, what are your plans to complete the completion of the ER, the development of the intra-Brussels offer? These elements are central parts of Brussels' auto congestion control. What is your policy on SNCB car parks? These car parks are becoming more and more expensive and therefore constitute a brake for users. Others are regularly saturated. We see on social networks that you are in regular contact with your colleagues ministers of mobility, which I also congratulate you. So what proposals are you going to submit to them for constructive reflection on this broad topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u101	Mr President, Mr Arens, thank you for your question. Our old mobility habits centered on the use of private cars are also an obstacle to our freedom. The city of Brussels is one of the most bottled and therefore the most polluted European cities. I do not believe, while not being Brusselsish, but coming to Brussels for many years every day, that doing nothing is an option. I think, and I thought I understood that, despite what you regularly repeat, the Brussels Region wants a consultation, and I will come back to it, about the SmartMove project. The decision taken by his government was to submit the draft to the other federal and regional governments for discussion. I think that in a democracy, between intelligent and well-educated people, we can always talk. As far as I am concerned, in order to improve mobility in Brussels, my ambition is to develop the suburban offer in our capital. The S offer in Brussels is currently 12 trade relations serving Brussels and its periphery. This represents more than 700 journeys a day serving 144 stations, 35 of which have been in Brussels since 13 November, with the opening of the Anderlecht station which we have just mentioned. This offer, which is too little known and which needs to be developed – it is really part of my plans – represents a real alternative to the car and offers very competitive journey times, especially during peak hours. It has the enormous advantage that the rails are already laid, that the space has been reserved and that with investments not too expensive – it is not a question of building a second tunnel, a second North-Midi junction – much can be done, especially between the east and the west, to find mobility solutions for municipalities that need it. I am thinking in particular of the commune of Uccle. I have introduced (you could read it in the press) within the framework of the European Union's recovery and resilience plan, very concrete projects in this area, in consultation with Infrabel and SNCB. The finalization of the ER is another of my priorities. I hope you were able to read in La Libre Belgique and La Dernière Heure of this Monday where we are. Work is still under way. I will ensure that the timings are respected, or even accelerated by Infrabel, so that SNCB can develop its suburban offer and achieve the objective of obtaining a frequency of at least four trips per hour, initially at stations in the ER zone. The idea is to improve the supply, each year by 2025, as part of the SNCB's new December transport plan, to reach the above frequency in 2025. This is a complex issue that requires a lot of work. Being in charge of Mobility for 100 days, I cannot be held responsible for the difficulties of the past. Part of this work has already been done. Others still need to be implemented. The steering committee that follows the file held its first meeting under my ministerial responsibility last Friday. The atmosphere is very good. The will to work is there and I welcome it. As far as parking is concerned, I should like to refer to the answer I gave to your colleagues at the beginning of the sitting. Your question was not attached, but I answered it quite thoroughly. As far as negotiations are concerned, I do have regular contacts with my regional colleagues, whom I will see again next Tuesday. It is important that the four Ministers of Mobility speak and work together. This is another way of doing politics than sending scuds across borders that are not even physical. As for the SmartMove dossier, it was decided to refer it to the Concertation Committee which entrusted the Brussels-Capital Region with setting up an ad hoc consultation structure, under the chairmanship of the Brussels Region. This structure provides for a working group to be set up, organizes the consultation, consolidates it and returns to the Concerted Committee. It is important to mention that the government of the Brussels-Capital Region has undertaken not to take any decision as long as the consultation is under way within the ad hoc inter-federal group, at least until 31 March 2021. This commitment will be renewed on the basis of the results of the consultation. I hope that we can talk constructively between adults and politicians in search of solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u102	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers and clarifications. Of course, the CDH will continue to pay attention to this issue because, with regard to the ER, I find that the government agreement was not very detailed. Finally, with regard to SNCB parking lots, I listened carefully to your answer. Like the Members of your party, I have also spoken on a number of occasions to ask for free parking, in order to encourage citizens to take the train more for their journeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u103	Minister, we have talked at length about stations as places of life or as places of passage. My question therefore concerns short circuits. SNCB has launched a call for applications from local producers and associations to hold pick-up points where consumers who have previously ordered online can pick up their order once a week. This project to support short circuits will include at least 70% of the food produced up to 30 km from the station in question. The space will be made available free of charge and accessible during peak hours. The project must deploy - according to the information published at this stage - to three stations, namely Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve, Liège-Guillemins and Ghent-Saint-Pierre. What is the status of the project, and was it maintained during the second containment? Have many applications been successful? I think the call for applications was closed on 4 December. What are the criteria for designating a station to accommodate this project? Based on the results of the evaluation of these pilot projects, is it planned to extend the project to other stations and regions? Under what criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u104	Of course, I welcome the SNCB project to promote short circuits. This type of project must be encouraged and supported with the aim of making stations a multi-service and multi-modal place of life. The philosophy of the government agreement is, moreover, to work towards the ecological and solidarity transition. Work in this regard continued during confinement and, despite the latter, the call for applications phase ended not on 4 December but on 8 December. SNCB received approximately 40 applications, reflecting the interest in the project. Analysis of these applications is under way. SNCB expects a launch from March onwards, as far as sanitary conditions permit. The test is scheduled for a period of one year. The stations hosting this project still need to be selected, taking into account different criteria such as available and suitable space, logistical possibilities and local support. For the test phase, the stations of Ottignies, Liège-Guillemins, Ghent-Saint-Pierre and Braine-le-Comte were selected on this basis. For a future deployment, SNCB will build on the lessons learned from this test period. After an observation period, the objective will be to extend this project to other stations. I'm already looking forward to inaugurating them, Mr. Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u105	Thank you, Minister. It's true I've been patient. This is the first time we have had the opportunity to exchange questions and answers. Thank you for your answers. It is gratifying to hear that there is enthusiasm for this project. Numbers of applications were received. I also welcome the agenda and see that it could be set up from March onwards. We all hope that the health environment will allow for the implementation of this type of project and the deployment of this activity. As you pointed out, stations are well connected places. It goes without saying that it is interesting to strengthen their role as a centre of services and a destination for activities that enable them to be animated and made a place of life. This project, as you said, makes sense. It consists of offering an additional offer not only to travellers but also to residents who reside near the stations, as well as offering complementary activities to local producers, such as additional outlets. I look forward to this project. As for the tests and the test phase, I understand the criteria that have been applied. I will use you again in a year, once the test period is over, to see if it is possible to extend this project. Many smaller stations are also an interesting food belt around their territory, especially in rural areas. It would be interesting to see if it is possible to expand this project beyond the large well-used stations of Ottignies, Liège or Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u106	Minister, I am not a member of this committee. We haven't really spoken yet, but something in me tells me that will change greatly in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u107	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u108	The reason for this is the number of train passengers in Limburg. While the number of rail passengers is increasing throughout the country, it appears that there is a significant decrease in Limburg. On an average weekday in 2013, the official travelers of SNCB showed that 16,000 people left one of the 20 stations in Limburg. In 2018, that figure fell to less than 16,000. In 2019, this trend continued to reach 15,400, a decline of no less than 7,24 % in six years. Minister, how do you explain these disastrous figures and what will your government do to increase the number of train passengers in Limburg? A number of stations with strong declines, such as St.Truiden, with a decrease of almost 30 %, Genk, with a decrease of almost 19 %, and Neerpelt, with a decrease of 50 %, saw the opening hours of the counters greatly reduced. Will you extend the opening hours of the counters to improve the service for the commuter? If so, what concrete steps will you take in the Limburg stations? A mobility expert, Professor Miermans, you are well-known, said last year that the spoiling of the parking system could be the cause of the decline. What is your view on paying parking? Will you prevent paying parking at the station parking of Sint-Truiden, for example? Will you reverse the paying parking at Hasselt and Genk station parkings? There are already serious parking problems. In cities like Hasselt and Sint-Truiden the parking offer really does not meet the demand. What initiatives will you take as Minister to work with local authorities to find solutions to the parking problems? You announced that you would increase the frequency of the trains. Will you ensure, for example, that a station such as Sint-Truiden receives two trains per hour towards Brussels and Hasselt? What other concrete plans do you have to expand the poor offer in Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u109	Mr Colebunders, I hope that we will be able to have pleasant and constructive discussions on the trains, especially in your very beautiful province of Limburg. As Minister for Mobility, as clearly stated in my policy paper, I have the ambition to develop SNCB's transport offer, so that there is not only more supply, but also that trains become more reliable, accessible and punctual. This applies, of course, to the province of Luxembourg, Mr Arens. SNCB is to develop an offer where there is a train every 30 minutes in each station throughout the country and every 10 minutes in the stations within the major agglomerations. In recent years, this vision has not been extended by the railway companies, especially partly due to the lack of a clear investment policy. The long planning and implementation period of rail projects makes clear the need for a clear and guaranteed investment plan, including for Limburg. So I will answer your first question: what makes people stop taking trains in the province of Limburg? There's got to be a better offer I'm working on right now. In the meantime, SNCB has launched a phased roll-out of the new transport plan 2020-2023. For Limburg, SNCB prepared the following structural increases and improvements in its offer. A first adjustment is the extension of the P-train Mol-Brussels-South and the P-train Brussels-South Mol to Neerpelt from June 2021. A second improvement is a fast IC connection Hasselt-Diest-Heist-on-den-Berg-Lier-Antwerp-Berchem-Antwerp-Central, at the earliest from December 2021. Third, there is a train every hour instead of every two hours on the train connection Hasselt-Schulen-Diest-Zichem-Testelling-Langdorp-Aarschot-Wezemaal-Leuven on Sundays and public holidays, at the earliest from December 2021. I have already answered your questions about the parkings in committee to your colleague. However, I am not ready. SNCB cannot increase its offer any more at the moment. By working in Hasselt's station, two platforms are permanently out of service, which has a major impact on the operation of the station. Moreover, in Limburg there are still many single track sections, such as line 19 Mol-Hamont, line 21 Alken-Landen and a large part of line 15 Mol-Hasselt, which make an extension to a more robust train supply difficult or even impossible. However, Mr Colebunders, I hope that this situation can change in the coming years. I am working on it and I am asking for more resources for the railways, also for the province of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u110	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. Limburg is indeed a beautiful province. We are very proud of it, but Limburg has already had to endure some things, such as the closure of Ford. Unemployment is rising enormously in Limburg, while labour supply is not rising proportionally. So a lot of our residents have to find jobs outside the county. Pendants are on the train for a very long time to travel to a neighbouring province. To give you an idea: the journey from Hasselt to Brussels takes longer than that from Brussels to Paris. That's an absurdity. There are even no train connections from the Maaskant to Hasselt. Limburg's investments over the past few years have always been lagging behind. I am talking about the renovation of the stations and the expansion of the rail and rail supply. Railways in Limburg have even been cut off, because they no longer want to invest in them. There are as many as 30 million people on the table for studies on tram services or for the Spartacus plan for a tram connection with Maastricht. However, there is already a bed, that of line 20, which we can activate again. We are also asking for this priority in a motion for a resolution. As a result, thousands of commuters could take the train again. We need to get that plan out of the dust. There is a huge demand for it in Limburg and I think there is a huge support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u111	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the apparently excessive number of Siemens locomotives in series 18 and 19. It can be noted that the composition of many trains consists of one locomotive at each end of the train, and that one locomotive is firing in one direction, the other on the return journey. At the cost of a locomotive, it seems to me a bit original to fix locomotives at each end of a convoy instead of placing pilot cars there. I understand that split trains, as is the case in Brugge or Leuven, naturally benefit from two locomotives, but this is totally incomprehensible for long-distance trains, such as between Eupen and Ostend, if this is due to a lack of pilot cars. Minister, I would like you to tell me more about the use of locomotives 18 and 19 Siemens in terms of unit and how many pilot cars can be adapted to M5 and M6 cars. Wasn't too many locomotives ordered at Siemens and not enough pilot cars at Bombardier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u112	Mr Arens, the wording of your question suggests that many trains are composed of one locomotive at each end. This is not quite the case, according to SNCB. She informs me that at the planning level, twelve trainsets run on the network framed by two T18 locomotives without the possibility of being split in operation. If you wish the exact details of this distribution, I will gladly answer a written question on the subject. On the other hand, in real time and in operation, you will understand that a locomotive may be used instead of a pilot car if it is damaged, which can happen in the best transportation companies, including SNCB. As regards the lack of pilot cars which, at times, can be real, in particular when two machines are damaged, two main reasons can be put forward: on the one hand, the limited number of types of equipment needed to get to Luxembourg, where it is essential to use L11 equipment and, on the other hand, the switch from the old to the new rolling stock with the move of M4 cars to the M7 cars, whose delivery has been delayed due to a health crisis. We have just reviewed the purchase contract for these M7 cars. Here are the figures on the level of the fleet of pilot cars at SNCB: it has 492 M6 cars including 64 pilot cars and 130 M5 cars including 18 pilot cars. Mr Arens, I hope I have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u113	Minister, thank you for your always very precise answers. I'm waiting for you to pass on the promised document to me, because I would still like to follow this file. I had the impression that more than twelve trainsets of such locomotives were running.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u114	Minister, I have previously asked your predecessor about the famous Desiro trainsets of the German manufacturer Siemens. Now I want to ask you about their absolute lack of comfort. These electric motors have been designed for short distances and offer only rudimentary comfort, as evidenced by the absence of a tablet to work and the presence of a single toilet cabin. There I was able to see the absence of garbage, windows damaged and damaged by tags, non-existent heating and large air currents - since the whole row lacks an internal door - and, finally, the absence of power outlets, except in the first class. However, these trains are put into service on long-distance routes, such as Brussels-Rochefort or Brussels-Dinant, and cause many complaints due to their total discomfort. While all European networks use dual-stage motors for their RER network, it is unfortunately clear that Belgium is the only country not to have this self-contained equipment, since the famous Desiros are single-storey. I therefore wonder whether this material has not been over-purchased, on the one hand, and on the other hand, without the specificities of the RER trains being properly understood. Most importantly, won't they already be obsolete and amortized when the RSP comes into service? I am not targeting you, minister, since you have been in office for just a hundred days. Plus, I think you probably haven't bought a lot of equipment yet, unless you've worked a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u115	Mr Arens, I'm not the one buying the equipment, but the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u116	I know that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u117	Although I am not responsible for their past purchase, I must begin by telling you that your description of Desiro trainsets is somewhat excessive - even though I also think they are more suitable for short trips than long distances. Moreover, it was for this purpose that they were bought. You know I'm still a train user. On my line, which passes through Assesse, it is the Desiro trains that provide the junction to Ciney or Namur. I think there are power outlets in the first and second classes, as well as a signal and heating system. These cars are also accessible to people with reduced mobility. I know you're sensitive to it. Pending the commissioning of the M7 equipment that we have just mentioned, and whose recent order will allow autonomous access to passengers with reduced mobility, a limited number of IC relations are nevertheless maintained by means of Desiro vehicles, as is the case with the Dinant-Brussels Airport line, which I also know well. I'm paying attention to all the lines, as you know. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the estimated capacity requirements and the high frequency of rail services to which we all aspire - which are set out in my policy note - require the use of all the equipment we have. Our priority is to ensure the timeliness and frequency of rail services, which explains why new orders were placed. In the long run, this Desiro equipment is actually intended for exclusive use on S trains near cities and L trains, which are frequent stop trains. This equipment is very suitable for this type of train because of its flexibility, speed, acceleration capacity and the ease of getting on or off, regardless of the mobility of users. On the other hand, Mr Arens, it is not intended to use double-deck cars for RER connections, for the sake of the simple reason that they are larger, heavier and therefore less rapid. Therefore, they have neither the same flexibility nor the ability to accelerate Desiro cars, which are more geared towards short and dynamic journeys, which is also part of SNCB's mission. Desiro cars are a formula that has made his youth diseases, but that is not as negative as you say. I invite you to try the experiment again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u118	Thank you for these detailed answers. It is true that if we want to encourage people to use the train as much as possible, it is essential to guarantee the comfort of vehicles, in any case for long distance journeys. If this is not the case, the citizen will prefer to use the car. I therefore count on your determination to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u119	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the wave of decommissioning that affects SNCB. Unused 11 locomotives drag in Stockem for lack of buyers and end up with scrap metal. The series 21 and 27 which are not yet 50 years old are cut with a torch. And now, the M4 domestic service cars are all leaving at the cemetery in Aubange. We are here in the middle of the province of Luxembourg. Once railway equipment, less technologically advanced and in any case less comfortable, remained "in the park", as is said in the SNCB jargon, for many years, certainly beyond 60 years of career. Currently, there are very rapid decommissionings of both traction equipment, such as locomotives 11, 12, 20, 21 and 27, as well as towed equipment such as the M4 and some 800-series Break motors. Minister, I would like to know the timetable for the disposal of equipment. I wonder if SNCB would not have ordered too much equipment in recent years, which would justify these very rapid decommissionings, so that we do not see any surplus equipment. However, if we succeed together in the mobility policy, we should have more equipment at SNCB, because more and more citizens will have to use rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u120	Mr Arens, I will answer you with the information that the SCNB has given me. You may be in a trial of intent or exhibit a machiavelic imagination about the downgrading of the material. You said, yourself, you ask for more comfortable equipment, but you blame the replacement of the equipment! There's a paradox. Today, in Western Europe, the average lifespan of railway rolling stock is no longer 60 years, but rather 40 years. The depreciation period for rolling stock is 35 years. It's more than a private car, of course. The policy of decommissioning rolling stock depends on several factors: the technical limitations that impose revisions or decommissioning; the customer requirements and the desired level of comfort, which is well-legitimate and necessary to attract new travellers; the evolution of the laws regarding the safety systems required on board, including the well-known ETCS system in which we have invested a great deal; the problems of obsolescence of the components – it is true that we are not building as solid as in time, Mr Arens. I won't deny you about it. Locomotives 21 and 27 will reach a technical limit that would require revision and heavy reinvestment. These locomotives over 40 years of age are faced with problems of reliability, obsolescence, non-availability of spare parts, and above all, are not equipped with the safety systems due from 2025, the famous ETCS that I have just mentioned. Performing revisions while equipping these ETCS locomotives would have no economic or technological meaning given their seniority. These locomotives will therefore be resold for re-employment, if the market permits. Otherwise, they will be sent to a recycling centre, which will allow some of their parts to be revalued. M4 cars also reach a life limit that would require revision. These cars no longer meet the standards of comfort desired today: no air conditioning, no display of information inside the cars, unlike the Desiros, no electrical outlets available, even less than in the Desiros, which are not so badly equipped in this field. SNCB has therefore chosen not to revise and modernize old cars, but rather to acquire modern equipment that meets the current standards of comfort required by customers. In addition, the modern equipment is double-storey with regard to the M7, which makes it possible to increase the number of passengers transported, in particular on the North-Midi junction. This would have been impossible to do by modernising old cars, to which you cannot add a second floor. But I'm going through an open door here, Mr. Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u121	Thank you for these answers. It is true that the people who asked me about these problems are people who, in different communes, have launched zero-waste operations and defend them. They didn't understand why we weren't trying to improve the old equipment to make it comfortable, so we could get it back instead of evacuating it. While they are asked to take a zero-waste approach, the public authorities, SNCB, do not do so. That is the context in which this question was suggested to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u122	Mr Arens, I am in favour of zero waste, but only when possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u123	I know it! Try, however, to influence SNCB in the right direction because it is important for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u124	This is my new life!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u125	Thank you. That's very good. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u126	Minister, the German, French, Austrian and Swiss railway companies have signed a declaration of intent to develop a night train network together. They see economic and environmental opportunities to operate six night train connections by the end of 2024. This would make it possible, for example, to track from Brussels by night train to Paris and Berlin from December 2023. With the intention of developing a night train network covering the cities of Amsterdam, Berlin, Vienna, Zurich, Brussels, Paris, Rome and Barcelona, it seems to be a promising start to an ambitious European cooperation that can enable sustainable travel in Europe. I believe that it fits perfectly with the ambition of the coalition agreement, and also with your policy statement, Minister, to show a constructive commitment from Belgium, in view of our historic role and with our capital as the natural hub, to the various initiatives taken at European level to support the development and revival of long-distance rail links, including night trains. That is what your policy statement says, and in the coalition agreement. However, according to reports on the declaration of intent of the various European railway companies, SNCB would not be involved in this initiative. That brings me to the following questions. Can you confirm that there are night trains between Brussels and Paris and between Brussels and Berlin? Have any applications come in yet? Has SNCB been pulsed to participate in this cooperation? Are you planning an initiative to bring SNCB into line with this declaration of intent? Does SNCB have specific plans for the operation of night train connections, whether or not in cooperation with other carriers? Do you see the end of the suspension of that one night train link that exists today, namely between Brussels and Vienna?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u127	Minister, I can largely agree with Mr Vandenbroucke's questions. In his introduction, he already outlined the agreement between other railway companies, which have great ambitions. I have already heard some disappointment from so-called night train watchers about the final outcome of that meeting. Minister, I would like to hear your views on this. Mr Vandenbroucke already asked questions, including the role of Brussels and the possible restart of the train to Vienna. In addition, I would like to quote the night train to Sweden. From Sweden there was a signal about the possible introduction of a night train to Western Europe, including to Belgium and Brussels. What is the state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u128	Minister, I would like to join with colleagues in their questions. A year ago, on January 22, I was a fellow passenger on the first night train to Vienna. That night train was nice news in the search for more sustainable ways to travel across Europe. The two previous speakers mentioned the ÖBB's announcement of a cooperation on the night train network. The train to Malmö has also been mentioned. In fact, I have already asked questions about this in the past. I am largely in agreement with the questions that Members have already asked and would like to supplement them with a few more punctual questions. Minister, the ÖBB announced the partnership on 8 December. Do you have any idea what's going on with that announcement? Has the ÖBB taken any further steps? Has the ÖBB already consulted with the FPS Mobility on this? If so, have any commitments been made? Your predecessor made a commitment when Sweden announced that it would put in a night train to Malmö. I recall that your predecessor replied to my questions that a feasibility study would be carried out by the Swedish administration and that the Belgian FPS was asked to provide elements for that feasibility study. Have these elements already been delivered to the Swedish administration? Has the Swedish administration already carried out this feasibility study? Do you have any other plans to ensure that Belgium can catch up on the night train network? At the last committee meeting, you said that there had been a first meeting of the International Rail Passengers Platform. You then indicated that the platform has already come together several times. Do you have any news on that? What expectations do you have with regard to the outcome of that platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u129	Mr President, Minister, many things have already been said. However, as far as travel is concerned, the news is a bit bleak, the future is promising, especially because of the different announcements about night trains. Mr Minister, you have announced your willingness to move forward on this issue and in particular to make Brussels a hub for European rail traffic. As you know, it is important to develop this type of technology in place of short- and medium-range flights and car traffic. However, night trains face difficulties: the cost of rail passage, tolls, acquisition of new equipment, cost management and revenue management between the different partner countries, etc. Minister, I come back to the announcements made last December. Does Belgium intend to join the announced partnership? If so, how? Have there been any contacts between SNCB and other railway entities on the subject? Are mutualizations envisaged for the acquisition of equipment, particularly with neighbouring countries? How do you envisage Belgian support for the deployment of this night offer? What projects are currently in your boxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u130	There are still many questions on the agenda, Minister. We have a lot of work ahead of us in the coming months. To buy some time, I join my colleagues. I am curious about the concrete initiatives that the FPS Mobility and SNCB will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u131	You have many questions to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u132	It may be a lot of questions, Mr President, but on an interesting subject. Night trains do a little dreaming. They are 100% of my ambitions for the future of the train. I therefore welcome and support the various initiatives aimed at reintroducing night trains in Europe. Night trains are in line with the ecological transition and modal shift that I and the entire government keep in mind. I am not the only Minister of Mobility to be interested in the subject. Several of my European colleagues, Ministers of Mobility or Transport – this is not exactly the same approach – have taken initiatives in this area, including the German Minister, whom I have co-signed. We're working together. We have in any case signed a declaration of intention to do so. I will use the momentum created by the fact that the European Commission has declared 2021 European Year of Rail to consult with my European colleagues on this issue. It remains, of course, that the introduction of new night trains depends on the economic potential of the connections and the logistical possibilities. It takes time. It is clear that the current health context does not favour these initiatives, since the Brussels-Vienna train, which Mrs Buyst and others inaugurated some time ago, is suspended because of a pandemic. During and after corona times, I would like to encourage, in addition to my own efforts, the FPS Mobility and SNCB to be part of the various ongoing initiatives. For example, the Swedish project for a night train Sweden-West Europe from Malmö and the Dutch government-drawn ERP platform that was launched in autumn 2020. In the meantime, the TEE 2.0 initiatives launched by the German authorities are also taking place in the latter project. This is an initiative that I supported with my signature. With regard to the additional connection to Berlin and the existing night train, there will in principle be no additional impact, since the night train to Berlin in Belgium will run in the path of the current night train to Vienna. SNCB was not contacted by the operators concerned in the context of this initiative, but SNCB requested additional information from the historical operators involved in this new initiative to verify the cooperation opportunities after the press conference. This press conference took place without contact between Belgium and SNCB. However, ex post, the SNCB officials, at my request, contacted the initiators of this project to tell them that they were available and because, physically, these trains must pass through Belgium to participate. Contact is now established. On the other hand, as you know, SNCB has experience in this area by using the NightJet in close cooperation with the ÖBB for two years. As regards the restart of the existing night train connection to Vienna, it is certainly intended to be restarted in spring 2021, but this will of course depend on the evolution of the pandemic. Many things depend on that, not just mobility. According to information provided to me yesterday by SNCB, the connection has certainly been suspended until 10 February 2021. There is a possibility that it will remain suspended until 26 March, but that remains to be determined. I hope it can be resumed on 27 March, but nothing is certain. As regards the path fees and their legislative framework, the legislation applicable to the path fees is set out in the Railway Codex, Articles 46 to 60 and in the Royal Decree of 19 July 2019 on the distribution of railway infrastructure capacities and the fee for the use of railway infrastructure. This legislation lays down the principles that Infrabel should apply when calculating these fees. Recently, the method of calculation was modified. It is not expected that the change in the calculation of path fees will have a significant impact on the night trains, as these are not high speed trains or rush hour connections. Discussions have started but are dependent on the health situation. They also depend on the availability of rolling stock, but the will is there, both with the SNCB and with the minister I am, to be able to move forward as quickly as possible, by re-implementing the Brussels-Vienna link, culminating in the Brussels-Malmö project which is already on the agenda and on which discussions have already taken place, participating in the Paris-Berlin project and, finally, participating in any initiative on this subject with my fellow ministers of European Mobility. It is understood that, if there was no pandemic, 2021 would be ideal to launch such projects, but we remain highly dependent on the health situation. However, this does not prevent us from preparing for the future. This is a very clear signal that I gave in the context of my general policy note but also in my contacts with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u133	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I share your voluntaristic view of the potential of night trains, both ecologically and economically. I am pleased that you have asked SNCB to consider whether they can cooperate within the framework of the declaration of intent of the other European railway companies. Let it not be a missed opportunity in that respect. I would like to urge you on this point and I am very curious to see what further steps will be taken and to which we will certainly return here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u134	Mr President, Minister, thank you, first of all, of course, for your comprehensive and committed reply. That's important. I still have a few elements in my reply. Firstly, I wonder whether our country and SNCB are prepared to invest in the dossier. I'm declaring myself. For the train from Malmö, Sweden, an attempt is being made to set up a construction with Sweden and Denmark, in order to arrive at a kind of open tender procedure. It seems to me that we are looking for partner countries to join in the construction. In this way, public participation could be introduced within European legislation. Apart from the story that international rail traffic is fully liberalised and should not be supported by public funds, this could be a side-road. Couldn't that be an option? Secondly, when we talk about the train as an alternative to short-haul flights, we have to look beyond the night train. The Minister said that night trains make dreams, they are charming and attractive, but the high-speed trains and other international trains are at least as important to offer an alternative to air travel. I would like to put everyone's feet on the ground in that respect. There are far-reaching plans to increase the train connection between Amsterdam and Berlin, because in the Netherlands the ambition is to transfer 1.9 million passengers from the plane to the train. One might think that this concrete plan is a game changer, but one reads a bit further that this would reduce the number of flights from Schiphol Airport by about 2.5 %. The level of ambition must therefore be particularly high before we can take major steps forward in reducing the number of flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u135	Minister, even CNN wrote about the resurrection of the night train in Europe. It is clear that we must try to be a forerunner in this ambition, which you rightly cite and which is in the coalition agreement, but we must be honest: we still need to catch up. The ÖBB in Austria made that choice clearly a few years ago and took certain initiatives. What Mr Van den Bergh is saying, of course, is correct, namely that international rail traffic has been liberalised, but that should not prevent us from setting the parameters correctly and clearly indicating where we want to go with international rail and night trains. I am therefore pleased, as Mr Vandenbroucke said, that you have taken the initiative to encourage SNCB to look at which partnerships can be started. We will certainly continue to question you, knowing my colleagues and myself. I'm still a bit hungry about the International Rail Passengers Platform, because there can also be some important levers that can bring this story to a successful conclusion. So there is substance to a lot of constructive consultation. To be continued, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u136	Minister, like my colleagues, I welcome your enthusiastic response. In the short term, I welcome the announcements concerning the links to Vienna and Malmö. We are all waiting for spring and summer 2021. We all hope that the coming months will bring good news, particularly in the area of mobility. In the longer term, as has been said, with regard to night trains, we are now living a period of shivering. We see initiatives unfolding and announcements appearing. But the future will have to be coordinated. The list of technical problems impeding the deployment of the night train is quite long. It is also gratifying to hear in your reply that you have already called on SNCB to play a proactive role in this debate. It is indeed important to be able to situate the role that the SNCB and the other railway entity can play, in collaboration with European railway entities. This will require good collaboration, which will make it possible to move forward on this issue and forge new partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u137	I look forward to further initiatives and will follow this up in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u138	Minister, a number of supplementary questions were asked. Do you still want to answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u139	That's impossible. My next meeting starts in one minute. It's also via Zoom, but I'm trying to be on time. Colleagues can always translate their oral questions into written questions and then I will try to reply in writing as soon as possible together with my 42 staff. It is sometimes a little more difficult when the question was submitted the day before. The answer must also be correct. It takes some time to get answers from SNCB or from the FPS. However, we are doing our best. The secretariat informs us that the questions will be converted into written questions and then we will try to reply in writing as soon as possible. I would like to thank Members for their enthusiasm for mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic329x.u140	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants' 550111606C was converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Vandenbroucke's 5501189C, 55011978C, 55011853C and 55012163C are also converted into written questions.
