ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I only have one question for you this time, while I usually prefer to ask you a few more questions. However, I will have to go to the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal. You are responsible for a lot of resources and you have a lot of decision-making power within this government. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions about the investment agenda. We have already discussed it during the policy statement, there is an investment package of EUR 1 billion to be spread over a few years. However, we read that you feel that there is an even greater investment need. Your colleagues even mentioned more than EUR 3 billion. In the interests of transparency, it is important for Parliament to have access to that list of investment needs. Can you give us the full list in this respect? After all, it is important for Parliament to know where, according to the administrations themselves, there are still needs. Secondly, decisions have already been taken on the investment agenda and the amounts, but has coordination been agreed? This is normally the case with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but does it also apply to that extra billion? Finally, I wonder what the result will be. The aim is to achieve an investment rate of 3 % or 3.5 %, but figures seem to be tricked, as certain one-off amounts are added together while the result should be given on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u2	Mr Loones, it is really a pleasure to be here this afternoon, at what is almost a tête-à-tête with my two best customers. The federal government has indeed agreed to invest an additional EUR 1 billion over this period in addition to the projects already included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the three projects decided upon during the budgetary control of March 2021. With this supplementary programme, the federal government goes beyond the ambition it had committed itself to in the coalition agreement. As a reminder, this ambition was to contribute to raising public investment to 3.5 % of GDP by 2024, taking into account the federal government's share of public investment in Belgium in 2019, i.e. 17.5% of the total. As regards your fifth question, on the scope of investment, I note that the government must have invested EUR 11.7 billion cumulatively in the period 2021-2024 in order to achieve its objective. However, thanks to the boost of the investments decided by the government since it took office, it will invest 14.5 billion cumulatively in this period. The impact of this federal impulse on public institutions at national level still needs to be further analysed. Additional efforts have also been made at other levels. You know Flemish Ferry, the plan that represents an additional 2 billion, including some additional investments. The Walloon Government and the Government of the French Community have also taken additional investment decisions. We are therefore confident that, by the end of the government period, we will be able to achieve 3.5 percent of public investment. However, only part of it is in the hands of the federal government. With regard to your first two questions, the first list of major projects for an amount of EUR 3.3 billion has not been analysed by the Treasury Inspectorate and has not been approved by the government. The size of the projects was therefore rather uneven and their contours were generally unclear. I would therefore like to refer you to my colleagues in the government if you have specific questions about their investment needs. The projects received in the framework of the call for proposals are, on the one hand, subject to an initial analysis by the Finance Inspectorate and, on the other, technical discussions in working groups. The Finance Inspectorate has paid particular attention to the completeness and accuracy of the budgetary dossier. In parallel, technical working groups met to discuss the projects on the basis of a number of criteria laid down by the nuclear cabinet. It concerns, for example, the economic return of projects, the involvement of the private sector, the contribution of projects to the renewal and transformation of our economy, the respect of the principle of do no significant harm and, finally, a thorough investigation by the Treasury Inspectorate. For the timing and follow-up of the projects, our monitoring method is inspired by the European obligations under the Recovery and Resilience Plan. As far as the timetable is concerned, each minister responsible will be responsible for defining milestones and objectives for his projects. Central monitoring will be carried out by my cabinet, with administrative support by the FOD BOSA, which will play a central role in consolidating and reporting information on the implementation of the investment projects. Every six months, starting in April 2022, the ministers concerned should report on their progress in achieving the milestones and objectives of their projects. Information on investment projects and consolidated reporting will be shared with the Council of Ministers, this Parliament Committee and other stakeholders, such as the Central Council for Business or the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. Finally, the budgetary resources for these projects will gradually be released according to the needs of the departments as the dossiers are submitted to the government. It is therefore a central reporting mechanism that will be made public every six months. I will be very happy to debate the reports in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u3	Madam President, I would like to thank you for giving the Secretary of State a little more time to reply. After all, there were many questions. I could have split them up, but they ended up in one question. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clarification. It is good to know that there will be a first report in April and that it will be delivered to Parliament. I like transparency and I have no doubt that you will put the results into the market in a broad and public manner. That's what you're supposed to do as a politician, advertise your work. I would like to call on you to come to Parliament first for a debate out of respect for democracy, and then you can sit in the television studios. I wish you every success. Secondly, following that line of transparency, I would like to call on you to take additional steps. For example, when I ask for the 3.3 billion list, you say that you do, but I have to ask the trade ministers. So you coordinate, so to speak, but actually you don't really coordinate, you monitor earlier. That's a bit harsh, but it's also recognizable. I have the same discussion with the ministers responsible for institutional reform. They also coordinate, so to speak, but as soon as there is a serious question, they always refer to the trade ministers. I can tell you now that I will question all these trade ministers. If you do not provide me with this information directly, I will coordinate myself and ask all those ministers to obtain the information. However, I do not know whether this is conducive to the atmosphere or to the debate. I would therefore like to call on you to actively share this information with Parliament. With regard to the 14.5 billion that the federal government would invest, which is higher than the 11 billion required, I would also like to see what exactly is meant by that. After all, we need to be able to go a little deeper and at the moment we are still at the title level, for example digitisation or ecological change. That is an interesting debate, but it is time we dive into the projects themselves, to know more in detail exactly what will happen. So we have to work beyond the slogans and content. I am sure this will produce interesting discussions and debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, you've been making the headlines in L-Echo lately by advocating a ten-year investment plan of 5 000 billion at European level. You say in the interview that the European Union would not be credible in the fight against climate change in the face of the US and China – and even in the absolute – if it did not set up such investments. In order to allow these investments, you recommend that they not be included in the ceiling calculations for the deficit of up to 3% and the debt of up to 60%, which are the Maastricht criteria. This exit gave you a reminder to Prime Minister Alexander De Croo that "it is up to Minister Van Peteghem to conduct such discussions". If the European Union is not credible in the absence of an investment plan of EUR 5 000 billion, is the federal government credible with its modest plan of EUR 1 billion, even if it is added to the European currency? In government, are you still competent to express your views on investments? Will you always have a voice in the chapter on investment in 2023, when the period of European austerity is closed and we will return to the European budgetary rules, i.e. 3%, 60% and others? Or will you have to speak under the control of Minister CD&V of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u5	Mr Van Hees, I am both surprised and not surprised by your question. I'm not surprised because the advantage of social networks is that you've already asked me the question on Twitter. I'm surprised at the same time because you're admiring the front page of L'Echo, it's interesting. I am pleasantly surprised that you are concerned about my well-being and role in government and thank you for that. With regard to the proposed European plan of 5 000 billion, this is an absolutely enormous challenge and I know that this concern is shared. I think we should start by insisting on the important taboo that was broken by the European Commission in July 2020. The European Commission has taken an interesting first step through Next Generation: 750 billion own resources raised at European level and made available to Member States. What seemed absolutely unrealistic, two years ago, was achieved in the context of the health emergency we experienced with the covid. The position I have expressed is as follows: "Let us be realistic, let us ask the impossible!" There is an emergency for climate transition that is of a different nature than the urgency of the health crisis and the European Union is the only authority that can afford to help Member States invest. Moreover, this is not so unrealistic since since then, Paolo Gentiloni, the Commissioner for the European Economy and Commissioner Dombrovskis have put forward similar figures. We are talking about 3.7% of European GDP, which must be invested within ten years in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is 520 billion a year, that is, roughly the same order of magnitude as the 5 000 billion I had advanced. As far as our credibility is concerned, two things must be distinguished. On the one hand, there is the government agreement stipulating the path of 4% investment in 2030 and 3.5% in 2024. As mentioned to Mr Loones, the sum of the European resources made available by the stimulus plan and the federal government's own investments makes it possible to reach 3.5% per year by 2024. It is to be welcomed that the other levels of power (the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Walloon and Flemish governments) have taken massive investment measures which are part of the same dynamic in addition to European resources. Secondly, and I agree with you, more needs to be done on public investment, because the question of transition is about investment in infrastructure. To this end, there are two potential tools: the first – on which the government shares the same position – would be to see to what extent exemption or investment protection schemes in transition would be included in the revision of the Stability Pact and the second would be to see to what extent the EU (which has shown that it can invest through its own financial means) would be able to replicate this kind of mechanism to enable Member States to invest in their energy transition. I know your affection for the Chinese model and less for the American model, but the Americans do about the same thing. Joe Biden's plans, combined, make three trillion. China invests 2% of its GDP in the energy transition. Two questions arise: the question of ensuring the transition in Europe and the question of the place of Europe vis-à-vis other parts of the world. Last week, the debate on the revision of European economic governance was opened at European level. In this respect, I would like to reassure you completely of the good understanding between my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem and myself. As specified in the Government's texts, my firm is associated and works in good cooperation with Minister Van Peteghem's office on the preparation of the Belgian position. Some principles are already contained in our guidelines for 2022 and in the last conclave. Among these principles, I repeat that the principle of favourable treatment of public investment occupies a central place in the position to be defended in Belgium. In the coming weeks, several technical proposals will be developed and discussed in a working group within government. Clearly, it is the Minister of Finance who will defend these positions in the Council of European Finance Ministers. I'd be happy to discuss this with you earlier. I know that you share with me the conviction that this is a fundamental issue for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u6	Secretary of State, I am pleased to learn that there is a good understanding in this government. You are telling us that we are pursuing the 3.5% target that will be achieved at the end of the legislature. According to my calculations, we are not quite there, especially since GDP is increasing more than expected, it will be more than the 3.5% forecast. We'll say it's a calculation of detail. The question is whether this is enough because this is to return to a level that we knew in the 1970s or otherwise. Today, however, we are no longer in the 1970s, and some climate issues require massive investment. There are huge needs that, in my opinion, are not satisfied with the meagre – although commendable – the meagre investments that are planned by this federal government or by the regional governments. We see, for example, that we are nowhere with regard to rail. The same applies to public buildings which are the subject of my second question. It's obviously not enough. I feel like we're not talking about needs, we're talking about abstract contingencies. There is no appropriation line between actual needs and amounts committed. As far as European austerity is concerned, we are today discussing the Maastricht criteria at European level to see whether we have overstated it, but I have the impression that this European budgetary diktat will continue to be maintained at European level. If that is the case and if we want to be serious, I think that we will at some point have to disobey European injunctions. I don't know if this is your party's goal or whether it will be easy to discuss it with your government partners, but for me, it's the only option if we want to be credible and if we don't want to go back to austerity. I note that this will be all the more difficult with your government. It is therefore appropriate to take the Prime Minister's statement with all the necessary hindrance. While European austerity is not yet imposed for the 2022 budget, the government has decided to be more Catholic than the European Pope, if I may say so, and to impose austerity. When Europe once again imposes austerity, what will it give? We've gone wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, my question relates more specifically to a statement by your colleague Mathieu Michel, although of course it concerns all investments. Your colleague Mathieu Michel said in the newspaper L的Écho, which I am reading carefully, that it would take 5 billion investments over 10 years to renovate public buildings. However, Vivaldi's budget table shows that barely 150 million are planned for the Régie des Bâtiments over the next three years, or 50 million per year. At this rate, it will not take us 10 years, as Mathieu Michel asks, but 100 years to reach the 5 billion. It is true that there is a European manna. But this shows the existing gap. Waiting for the year 2121 for the full implementation of these investments, which are known to be important for the climate? Everyone is aware that it is far too late. The table detailing the billion investments decided by Vivaldi includes 26 other items in addition to the buildings. Can you give me, for each of these items or at least for the most important items, the ratio between the amount of investment shown in the table and the actual investment needs? This ratio was implicitly formulated by Mathieu Michel. Do you have it for other positions or for all positions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u8	Dear colleague, to answer the first part of the question on the real investment needs related to the Régie des Bâtiments, I agree with you that today our real estate stock is old and among the least efficient in Europe, with 80% of the real estate stock that corresponds to the class C and lower of the energy performance certificate, in particular our public buildings. This is not the case for the latter, but the majority are in energy performance standards below current standards. I regret it as much as you do. This is the result of decades of chronic underinvestment that we are trying to influence under this government. I think that, in terms of investment, this government is setting a bar on more ambition than it has been for 40 or even 50 years. As you mentioned, the budget table shows $150 million for the Multi-Year Plan 2021-2024 of the Régie des Bâtiments. I refer to the presentation by my colleague Mathieu Michel: by 2031, the PPI of the Régie des Bâtiments is estimated at just under 5 billion for the construction of the project. During the last conclave, it was decided to add additional resources to the Régie's endowment in order to support the realization of this plan, but your question is quite valid: by 2024, it is true that there is still a balance to be filled. The needs will therefore have to be reconciled with the means and priorities will have to be set, for which I leave it to my colleague Mathieu Michel to answer you as to how to make this allocation. To answer your second question, where you ask to specify, more generally, the ratio between the amount of investment shown in the table and the actual investment needs, I am unable to provide you with this information. The amounts shown in the investment table are in fact the amounts required for the implementation of specific projects. All these projects have been combed by the Finance Inspectorate to check in particular the adequacy of the means to the objectives set. I agree with you that, in particular with regard to rail or investment in public buildings, it is not necessary to have done 10 years of analysis to see that the amounts of investment are only partial in relation to the investment needs. This is the very essence of the political struggle, and you will discover it on the day you participate in the exercise of power to bring about concrete changes in people's lives, rather than claiming to get 100%. Day after day, with my comrades, we are fighting within the government to increase these amounts and try to match them with the needs. I would like to make an appointment in April 2022, as I did for Mr Loones and all the other Members of this committee, to report on the implementation of all the federal plans for the recovery plan. I hope that by then we will have the opportunity to meet again to continue to exchange, in one-on-one or in another room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u9	Secretary of State, I note that you are unable to provide information on the relationship between needs and investments. That seems problematic to me. I understand that you cannot give estimates of the 27 positions, but the starting point is to invest as needed. We must therefore be able to estimate them. Mathieu Michel has fortunately formulated his needs for buildings, but for other important topics related to the climate transition - such as rail, which is a key element - they should be established. It seems to me that there are a lot of publicity effects - which certainly concern you less than the Minister for Mobility, but we can mention other aspects. Let's start from the needs and try to objective them. There are tools, such as the climate transition study carried out by the Planning Office a few years ago, which includes a costing of needs. The amounts are large, but the climatic stakes are also large. If the government is to be able to respond seriously to young people or to the entire population that is mobilizing for the climate, it is necessary to be able to provide more than investments that are out of step with the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u10	Madam President, allow me to speak again and to contravene the Rules of Procedure to say to Mr. Van Hees, I totally agree with him. Much is being done in the area of needs assessment. For example, as far as rail is concerned, if you ask Infrabel, directly or via its supervising minister, you will find that it has a very precise vision of the amounts to invest to increase the rates, frequencies or speeds of traffic, to upgrade the network in terms of freight, etc. As far as energy networks are concerned, a whole series of evaluations are also carried out. Today, we have very top-down estimates from the Planning Office. I have, moreover, a thought for his director, unfortunately died unexpectedly. The data provided by the Commission is also available. We can define the big masses. There are bottom-up approaches provided by the various system operators. Whether it is the rail sector or the energy sector, estimates can be collected in Belgium. The plan also includes a range of projects that are 100% funded. This is the case when it comes to developing such infrastructure. Either we do this kind of 100% project, or we don't do anything. It is, in fact, preferable to abstain rather than carry out a project half way away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u11	Mr. Secretary of State, I am taking the floor to close our meeting. It may be top-down what the Plan Bureau is doing, but it was starting from the CO2 reduction climate targets. These are not things they invented or sucked from their thumb. It is known that there are CO2 reductions to be achieved by 2030, 2050, etc. to avoid a climate disaster on the planet. It was on the basis of these very objective data that they measured the needs. It's not top-down for fun. This means that if we don't achieve these goals, we're going to miss the course and the balance sheet for the protesters for the climate will be negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u12	We shall resume the meeting with the questions addressed to Minister De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u13	Madam President, I was simply going to refer to the question that has been put, but I am going to take a little time, hoping that there may be other Members coming. So I'll ask my question live after all. Madam Minister, my question follows on from a question I already asked on 29 September 2021, entitled Internet fraud with the Flubot virus. You then reported that it would be invested in systems that would allow the automatic screening of both incoming and outgoing text messages. Such systems are very important for protecting people from Internet fraud. The choice of the system and the optimal form to implement it would still be studied and further investigated. A tender would also be launched. You also mentioned that the current legal framework does not allow systematic proactive screening of text messages. A legal initiative had to be taken as well. Madam Minister, can you tell us the state of play regarding the recruitment procedure for a project manager? When is he or she expected? Can you give the timing for the tender? When do you plan to come to the committee with a supplement to Article 125 of the Electronic Communications Act, so that proactive screening of SMS messages is possible? To what extent will the privacy rules be taken into account? Finally, you also indicated that operators' resources to deal with fraudulent texts are rather limited. How do you deal with that limitation? What initiatives are you considering so that operators can combat Internet fraud with sufficient resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u14	Firstly, I would like to clarify that the recruitment of the project manager under the Stop Phishing project is the responsibility of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, the CCB. That has told me that at present it is not easy for it to find a suitable candidate for the very specific profile because of the scarcity of the labour market, but that it will continue to look. As already mentioned, operators with that project manager and in cooperation with the CCB and the BIPT will have to find the optimal solution for the system and its implementation. That's an exercise that's part of the project. At present, all scenarios need to be examined, including the award of a tender. The supplement to Article 125 of the WEC, the electronic communications law, with a provision to allow operators to proactively screen all SMS messages for possible fraud, is included in the draft law transposing the European electronic communications code and amending various provisions on electronic communications, which was introduced this morning to this committee. As soon as this law is approved, preferably on November 17th, as we discussed this morning, it can be published in the Belgian Official Journal. The supplement to Article 125 of the WEC expressly provides that operators who carry out screening must comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. In this context, they will have to examine, inter alia, whether the screening they undertake is effective and proportionate, and whether their processing requires a risk analysis within the meaning of Article 35 of the General Data Protection Regulation. In addition, operators must be transparent about the fight against fraud they have undertaken. The biggest obstacle today to a targeted fight against smishing is the fact that it is currently not legally possible to screen those SMS messages. The addition to Article 135 will make this possible. In addition, as part of the relay plan, I will be able to financially help operators invest in anti-fraud systems through the Stop Phishing project, to which I referred at the beginning of my reply. That project will start at the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u15	Madam Secretary, we have heard your bill for the first time this morning. It's a hell of a bill, and I'm very happy about it. I knew there were some very good things in it that I fully support, but I find it very interesting that this is included. It is heard everywhere, Internet fraud is a huge problem, but I am convinced that pro-active screening can already reduce the number of victims. I am pleased that it is now also legally possible and that operators will be obliged to do so. That is certainly a step forward. You can count on our full support to get that design through as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u16	Madam Secretary, I would like to receive an update on the 5G dossier. When will the auction take place? When will the Consultation Committee examine the 5 KBs? After all, the Council of State has left room for an auction and for a fourth player. The spectrum has therefore been adjusted, but I would have liked to see a state of progress on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u17	Unfortunately, I cannot tell you today the exact date of the auction. However, an important step has been taken. On 4 October, the Council of State gave an opinion on the CRAs. The BIPT processed those opinions very quickly and, at the request of the Council of State, made changes to the texts relating to ASTRID roaming, with regard to Article 52 of the European Code, with regard to spectrum and some other clarifications. Last week, the 5G dossier was approved by the Federal Minister and some additional changes were made to address the concerns of the Regions, such as the reduction of the spectrum package for a newcomer, as well as its modularisation. At federal level, we had decided to include a spectrum reservation in the KBs. The regions were somewhat concerned, mainly in terms of employment, investment, etc., should there be a fourth player, with all the environmental consequences, including extra antennas and other radiation levels. These are the concerns expressed by the Regions in the Consultation Committee, on which additional studies have also been ordered. By reducing that reservation, we think that we still offer the possibility to admit a fourth player, if necessary only for B2B, but possibly even for B2C. In any case, we were able to remove some concerns. We hope to be able to reach a final decision at the next Conciliation Committee so that we can have the auction take place. We are now aiming at the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 24 November. If we get the green light to go to the auction, we will focus on the second quarter of 2022, since BIPT still takes five to six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your full answer, as we have seen again. I'm glad a fourth player is still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u19	Mr Freilich, I would like to briefly highlight the main points of the proposal for a reform of the social telecommunications tariffs. Firstly, we are talking about heads of families with increased allowances. They should be able to use a social rate for either standalone internet or combined packages, such as TV plus internet. If someone does not want the Internet, a social rate for fixed telephony can also be taken, as before. In addition, I would also like to think about beneficiaries with an increased concession for mobile services, if they have visual or auditory limitations. We will specify the scope of the beneficiaries of that group. With regard to automation, the categories of beneficiaries of the fixed part can easily be checked automatically. The granting of the right to social charges for fixed services will therefore be automated in our proposal. As regards the mobile part, the conditions relating to auditory and visual limitations cannot be automatically verified. So we cannot grant this automatically, it will still have to be dealt with manually. The amounts of the discounts will now be indexed on the basis of the health index. I would just like to stress that the reductions are financed by the sector, as is the case today. For this there is the mechanism of a sector fund, which can be activated in the event of what is called an unreasonable burden. The budget foreseen in the budget to install this mechanism relates to the implementation of the IT and to additional staff required by the FPS Economy, as the FPS Economy will be responsible for the award of the social tariff. As far as the steps still to be taken are concerned, the reform should be translated into a draft law which will shortly be submitted to the public for consultation. This public consultation will have to enable both poverty organisations and consumer protection organisations and operators to find the right balance for our society, allowing everyone to access the Internet. With regard to your second question, I have consulted with the BIPT during the discussions leading up to the drafting of this proposal for reform. The BIPT has drawn our attention to the complexity of the proposal and the need to ensure that the reform remains proportionate by striking a balance between consumers' rights and the impact on operators. The BIPT has also stressed the need to ensure sufficient time for implementation. I will therefore work out the operational aspects in close cooperation with the operators. The BIPT has also carried out a statutory study on adding mobile social rates. This shows that a comprehensive introduction of mobile social charges may not be justified under European rules at the moment. Europe must approve of this. If there is no need on the market, then we should not introduce it. The mobile market already appears to have sufficiently low-cost formulas, which does not require a social tariff for the entire population for the mobile segment. I'll ask BIPT to monitor that every year, because that can always change. As I said earlier, I will try to include certain categories of vulnerable people in the mobile sector when introducing a mobile social tariff. These are persons who have specific difficulties with communication due to auditory or visual impairments. There are precedents in this area. Other European Member States have introduced this and we are sure that this will receive European approval. We are, of course, talking about a smaller group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I see we have a lot of work ahead of us on this matter. We also believe that people who are in a weak social situation are entitled to the Internet. The question is how broad this will be, in other words what part of the population will be involved. Of course, it must also be something that the operators can live with. For example, we should not impose on them the obligation to deliver half or a quarter of their customers free of charge. When I look at the electricity market, the number of customers with a social rate is even 20%. What impact will that have if we align that with the telecoms market and give operators 20% of their customers a reduced rate? I look forward to discussing these matters with you after the BIPT report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u21	Madam Minister, this question concerns the budget foreseen to reduce the digital divide. You have our support for that. I only saw in the budget tables that the 50% own contribution for operators in order to obtain a subsidy suddenly lapses. I find that odd, Madam Secretary. How do you explain this? Does that have to do with the fact that there haven't been enough applications? Or does that have to do with the fact that the amount has already been budgeted? Under the motto: the amount is there, so we spend it, even though we haven't found anyone to answer it? Madam Secretary, what exactly has changed? Why is this condition suddenly no longer necessary? I hear from those who have not submitted a plan or offer that they are now sorry, because it is paid in full by the government. That is a legal objection on which I am concerned. I want to make sure that we will not have any problems with people who challenge this at the Council of State or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u22	Mr Freilich, in February this year I asked BIPT to publish a call for operators to finance projects that they could propose to help bridge the digital divide. This has been done with the cooperation of the FPS Economy and the PPS Social Integration. The call for applications contained a number of criteria on which the projects would be tested. A budget of EUR 6 million was foreseen. Four operators have submitted a proposal. A second call was published in May, but it did not lead to additional proposals. We must submit the projects to the European Commission and make sure that it does not treat this aid to operators as state aid. The European Commission has been very strict and has only accepted one project, Telenet. After all, that project was strongly targeted at the most vulnerable groups and could be considered as a kind of almost philanthropic project, where a vulnerable target audience receives access to connectivity via a subscription of EUR 5 per month, including a functional laptop, technical assistance and basic training. A very nice package for people who otherwise cannot get access to digital media. Its funding amounted to EUR 500,000 and the total cost figure was EUR 1 million, according to the 50/50 rule. The Council of Ministers decided, within the framework of the last budgetary conclave, to use the remaining grant of that project in 2022, but also to adapt the dossier to achieve more feasible projects, as the issue of the digital divide continues to exist and is still relevant. The rules have therefore been changed for the following phases in the project. We have decided that only projects that are exempted for notification to the European Commission of State aid rules will be subsidised. These are therefore only projects in which operators do not generate turnover and only provide a social service free of charge. That is why the Telenet project was approved, because it complied with the rules, which was not the case for the other projects, which I will not talk about anymore. We have therefore decided that, in order to go further, we need more projects like Telenet's with the other operators. Projects already under way with the operators being scaled up and where there really is a strong commitment to reducing the digital divide are still being taken into account. So these are already ongoing projects that we will subsidise. We have therefore been able to drop the 50% own contribution criterion, since that is no longer a problem under European State aid rules. It can then be said that the operators receive a subsidy of 100%, but they are projects which should not generate any returns for the operators. That's the other side of the coin. We believe that this will make more projects eligible. Also because the projects can go through until 2022, we think we will be able to roll them out successfully. In the light of the recent decision in the context of the budget conclave, the procedure for granting funding is, of course, still ongoing. After all, it was only a good week ago that the decision was finally taken. I hope my answer will provide some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u23	I have one more question: that Telenet project involved an own contribution of half a million euros. Will that full amount be sponsored now or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u24	No, it is difficult to apply the amended rules retroactively and decide to return EUR 500 000 to the first project. That is not Telenet's question, and that is not our intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u25	I understand that, but if I were Telenet, I'd be a bitch anyway, because it did his application in a correct way. None of the other operators' projects were approved. If Telenet had submitted the same application in 2022, EUR 5 per cent would cover the cost of the project, the project would have been fully reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u26	That Telenet project was a project they were already doing anyway. We supported that, which allowed it to be extended. It would not have led to the non-implementation of the project at any time. So that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u27	It's a good thing this is being reviewed. If there is indeed State aid, this cannot be done. At the time, I had a point about that. I had learned at the time that one of the companies apparently simply wanted to classify its extension of the fibre network as such a project, of course in order to reduce the digital divide. It can't be. You told me at the time that this would be all right. I therefore seem to have been right in that regard. We'll follow it further. Hopefully beautiful projects will come out and this can contribute in a philanthropic way to the reduction of the digital divide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to the draft that has been discussed a number of times. We also had a debate on this in plenary, in particular on 17 June 2021. At the time, I wanted to table an amendment to the draft law, but you said at that time that I was actually making a preliminary deduction. I said at the time I wanted to take away legal uncertainty. You replied to me, and I quote: 'In order to rule out possible legal uncertainty, and with that certainty to return to the Consultative Committee, we are going to ask the Council of State for an opinion'. Well, the Council of State has indeed expressed itself, and I am equally quick to translate it: 'In fact, this is a rather technical matter, on which we have no expertise. But what we could do is, if you give us a report, decide whether this report meets it or not." Maar, Zegt of Raad van State: "However, the file submitted to the Section of Legislation does not show that this is the case." This means that legal uncertainty still exists. You then said in the press about the possible fourth 5G telecom player: "The piece of spectrum we initially wanted to reserve for a possible new player will be limited." Analysts immediately said that the plans for a fourth operator on the b2c market are buried with them. I have a number of questions about that. Do you recognise today that your statement of 17 June 2021 that the Council of State would rule out the possible legal uncertainty is not true? You say you've narrowed the spectrum. I'd love to know how. They provided 35 megahertz. That's now 30. I understand that there is also a very small part needed for ASTRID or for other police forces. Is that a significant restriction? A fourth telecom player can still benefit from the preferential treatment that spectrum reservation is, as there is still 30 megahertz to become active in the consumer market. Do you confirm that? The BIPT argued earlier in 2021 that there is no major problem of competition on the mobile market as opposed to the fixed market. Do you not therefore fear legal problems if you will provide 30 megahertz and therefore work market-distortingly? Finally, would it not have been better if I still took the initiative in this respect, for example, to reduce the reserved spectrum, i.e. the spectrum we will give at a reduced rate, to 5 or twice 5 or 10 megahertz, just to specifically attract a b2b operator and avoid any legal uncertainty? Isn't that a good solution? Could you go along with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u29	Madam President, Mr Freilich, the opinion of the Council of State can be interpreted in two ways: it cannot be ruled out in one direction or it cannot be ruled out in the other. In other words, as we read it, the opinion of the Council of State is that the authors of the Royal Decree must be able to demonstrate that they have conducted the investigation, as required by Article 52 of the European Code, in all its aspects. That is why it was pointed out that the report should supplement it to the King, which has also happened in the meantime. We therefore believe that we have responded to the comments made by the Council of State. In your comment on limiting the spectrum package, you make a very interesting suggestion. However, we have limited this by 14% in percentage terms, which is an important reduction. It is important for legal uncertainty that we make the reserved part for a newcomer exactly the same as for existing players. There's no difference anymore. That is a concern that existed. This does not discriminate. A package of 30 megahertz is still sufficient for the entry of a b2c player. He's gonna have a harder time, but it's perfectly possible. So we are not completely excluding it. We also leave it to the market to decide. That is why we have also made the system modular, so that we can see what is happening as a function of who participates in the auction. Let's put it that way. The argument that you have already put forward a number of times, namely that the conditions we lay down for a possible newcomer would be market-distorting, I have already answered several times. However, I will try to repeat the answer once again. The impact study prepared by the telecom regulator in all its expertise says, firstly, that there is sufficient spectrum for four players, so that current operators can largely continue their services. Secondly, and you have heard that argument from the consumer organisation, a newcomer will probably have a positive impact on the high prices and his arrival will lead to innovation in the domain. Thirdly, the impact on future investments is not clear. There are many possible models. It is a common practice, including in other countries in Europe, to open the door through spectrum reservation to an additional player on the market. This in itself is not exceptional at all and is certainly acceptable under European rules. As regards the legal elements, in particular the legal uncertainty and Article 52 to which you also referred, which have been tested with both the Council of State and the European Commission. Neither mentioned any inaccuracies. So I think that the legal doubt has now really been removed. We have given the regions the necessary time over the last few months, and I think it is now time to cut the knot and go to the auction with this dossier. That is what citizens and businesses are waiting for. As a reminder, according to the DESI score for 5G Readiness.u, the figures also show that our country is in the third last place of the 27 Member States with a readiness of 3%, while all our neighbouring countries have long since auctioned the 5G licence for 750 megahertz. The countries with which we dangle our tails are countries we expect there, but our country does not really belong there. You will agree with me, and you and your colleagues will stress that it is also important that 5G arrives soon. We agree on that. Hopefully, at the next Consultation Committee on 24 November, the government to which your party is also a member will make the decision and we will be able to hold the auction in Q2 of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u30	Madam Secretary, you have a very creative reading of what the Council of State says. You probably have very good lawyers. However, I do not read it that way. The Council of State was asked whether Article 52 had been applied, to which it replied: 'Le dossier Communicatie à la section de législation ne permet pas d'établir que tel est le cas'. In my view, they indicate that they cannot see that what Article 52 is asking for was taken into account. I also said what the BIPT said about the ex-ante meetings in our market. They don't think that's possible. According to you, a spectrum reservation is not exceptional. That's not right. It's extraordinary, though. On 27 European Member States, 2 or 3 have done so or can do so. That's an exception, and we're one of them. The countries that have done this in the past, such as Italy, have not come out so well. The fourth operator was swallowed by the third and they were back to square one. It is good that you mention the DESI index, where we dangle all the way back. I told you that on 17 June. Flanders isn't a problem there. Flanders and Mr Di Rupo have been asking for this legal certainty for some time. It is important that you state today that the 30 megahertz spectrum reservation does not exclude a fourth player. A lot of newspapers have already written that. I expect the Consultative Committee to decide on 24 November. I don't have a say in that. You will have to come to a compromise with your colleagues from the other regions. From that my questions flow to where we stand. Your answers were clear, even though we have a different vision, but that is allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u31	Madam Secretary, in the media last week you said that you are thinking of greening the e-commerce sector. What initiatives are you thinking about in concrete terms? Do you really want to see the cost of a fast delivery calculated? How do you wish to obtain this? Which players did you hear in the meantime? Who else would you like to hear? What will your modus operandi be in this policy project? Are you also planning consultations with your European colleagues to develop a possible European initiative so that the impact is more relevant and the European level playing field is equal? You also provided a number of figures on the load mile that accounts for 50% of CO2 emissions from all parcel companies. What studies are the basis of these figures? Was a specific study carried out by your cabinet or administration? You're also thinking of ecozones around the city. Will you involve local businesses so that the new initiatives do not take the upper hand, but the city also remains liveable and habitable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u32	Mrs Verhelst, we had a debate yesterday in the Committee on Mobility on sustainable e-commerce, but I would very much like to take your question back to heart here because it is such an important subject and because it will personally be a yard for me for the coming months. We want to take steps in this area. You have heard during the budget conclave and the discussions on it that e-commerce is high on the government's agenda. It is mainly about the social aspects, the flexibility with regard to the jobs in that sector. However, sustainability is also a very important aspect. I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding first. I also saw the headlines last week, which were more expensive deliveries if they had to be made quickly. I never said that. I corrected that last week in plenary. The government has absolutely no plans to set the price in this market. I can be very clear about that, there will be no such thing as a package tax. I have said this and I would like to repeat it here. On that market, which exploded very quickly, there are some striking findings to make, namely that the true costs do not always reflect externalities. By externalities, I mean the following. Someone who orders something in the morning and already receives it in the evening or orders something late in the evening to get it the next day should know that someone else has been making that package at night and someone else came to the door early in the morning with a van. One can say that this is very good, that this is what one wants, but one pays the same price as when it arrives three days later, with a delivery in a different, more sustainable, more socially sustainable, more environmentally sustainable way. In a market that is developing, I think those externalities should be reflected in the price. There are plenty of domains where that is true, where people pay more if they want something fast. However, I would like to reverse the reasoning by calling the most ecologically sustainable method the most logical one, for which less should be paid. I expect the market to take care of that itself. We will not intervene in that. I'd think it makes sense. This also means that, through regulation, the postal law allows us to regulate both the social sustainability of postal services, including the e-commerce parcel sector, and the social conditions, the working and wage conditions of the people working in that sector. For the postmen, that is clearly stated in the postal law. Perhaps we can create a framework of working and wage conditions to ensure a level playing field for all participants in that sector. It can also lay down certain ecological criteria for the delivery of packages. So we can adopt it in a legal framework so that it is regulated for all players in the market in our country. For a good understanding, I hope that the most sustainable delivery will also be the cheapest. There are many models, such as the ecozone in Mechelen and in other cities, which is already organised by bpost. In addition to bpost, other players in sustainable deliveries are already engaged in cargo bikes, for example. Several models are therefore possible. I will discuss this with the sector. In recent weeks we have only just organised two workshops with BIPT, with many participants, including the large post operators, such as bpost, UPS, PostNL, DPD and City Depot, trade unions, Comeos, academics, governments and other agencies, the Central Board of Business and the FPS Economy. With all those stakeholders, conversations are constantly taking place from my cabinet. It is important that we start the debate on the sustainability of the postal sector. To me, sustainability is threefold: economic, ecological and social. If it is not economically sustainable, it will not survive in a highly competitive market. It must also be socially sustainable: we do not lower our standards and try to create a level playing field for everyone. It must also be ecologically sustainable. There's no miracle solution to magicalize those negative externalities. It will thus be an en-en-story involving all stakeholders and allowing consumers to become more aware of the implications of ordering such a package. We need levers at all levels of government, not just at federal niveua. One size fits all... an undifferentiated approach... is also not possible. In rural areas, for example, home delivery is more ecological than delivery at a pick-up point, while in a city it is just the other way around. Therefore, we need to look carefully at the existing studies and figures, which you refer to in your question. The impact needs to be studied carefully. In the Netherlands, an organisation calculates the CO2 emissions per delivery. Each order indicates the estimated CO2 emission, which can make consumers more aware of their choices. I understand you went to a book show last night from Buldeo Rai. It's definitely recommended, so I'd like to mention it here. We will continue to take many initiatives and consult with the sector and all stakeholders. The workshops and the debate that we have now started will only be a starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic621x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I can follow you in a lot of points. As you say, delivery in the city is not so ecological, but outside the city it is more ecological. I think it is very important that you consult. I myself have experience in the construction sector, and there are many studies done by the Flemish Institute of Logistics and such, where it appears that the manufacturers supply outside the city but forget that there has to be a hub for this. Then we, as the construction industry, say, "In fact, we are the hub you are looking for. Don't look any further if it already exists. Be sure to take into account existing companies." Some cities die a bit when new businesses are planted there. For example, I would not like bpost to put those boxes everywhere, while in addition there is already a shop whose door is open and where someone can receive the customers nicely. The local trader then says, "Why didn't bpost ask me, I would have done it right away." I think that is a very important element to take. Open Vld will submit another resolution on the sustainability of returns. We certainly support the sustainability of e-commerce. This is effectively a new market that has been very booming, but now there is a willingness on the part of companies to think about sustainability. We must certainly create a level playing field and respect social conditions, but we must bear in mind that Belgium must not be left behind and that the distribution centres are now all at the border of our country.
