ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u2	We resume the discussion of the government's statement. We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the respect for health rules, but also of the agreement reached at the Conference of Presidents. If you wish to speak, I would ask you to address your questions to the speaker. I also ask you to avoid the debates in the Chamber. At the current pace, we have some for the whole weekend. There are dozens of speakers on the agenda. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this government has just blown its first candle. Who could have imagined, a year ago, when you were proposing to orchestrate Vivaldi around the theme of prosperous, solidarity-based and sustainable Belgium, that the second wave of the covid-19 epidemic would plunge us back into crisis management and the health and social emergency? Covid-19 killed millions of people around the world. Millions of other people have been hospitalized and we do not know how many will keep the sequelae of this terrible virus. In our country, tens of thousands of people have, alas, been severely affected. Too often, they have succumbed to the virus. Hospital staff, doctors, nurses, emergency workers, maintenance staff, cooks and cooks, all of these women and men have gone to the end of what they could give and continue to give everything to treat, comfort, heal and surround the sick. For two years, the world almost stopped spinning. People were locked up in their homes. Women and men have been deprived of their families. Social life has stopped and solitude has fallen on many of our fellow citizens. Women who were victims of domestic violence found themselves trapped in a home, as the danger worsened, while the children were deprived of school. Whole sections of our economy have been stopped. Thousands of workers have been forced to stay at home. Some companies have even had to close down. At the same time, workers have valiantly allowed society not to collapse completely. These workers continued to reassort supermarkets and grocery stores, drive our public transportation, run our factories, extinguish fires, ensure our safety and cleanliness in our neighbourhoods. We have lived two very difficult years, we must remember. Are we out of business? Not completely yet. Are we on the right track? Certainly! Belgium has now become one of the best-placed states in the fight against covid, although not everything is perfect. No self-satisfaction, the subject does not lend himself to it. However, he welcomed the Government's work to combat the pandemic. Today, we are not only on the road to an improvement of the situation, but also on the road to the reconstruction of a protective state that strengthens solidarity, solidarity at the heart of socialist values - a return of the socialists to the government that is decisively marked. We have first re-aligned social benefits (GRAPA, social integration income (RIS), disability allowance) which will be increased by more than 22% by 2024; the minimum pension with an increase which will reach EUR 1,500 by 2024. In health, we have significantly increased our budget for the coming years. We have also identified ways to better manage mental health care. This is a budget of EUR 200 million, now lasting, for a greater reimbursement of psychological consultations for those in need. For the medical staff who fought tirelessly during the crisis, I want to mention here the memory of our late friend and colleague Marc Goblet, who bravely fought to ensure that the White Blouse Fund was put in place, but also to ensure that it was sustained. My thoughts go to him from this rostrum. [[Applause]] The White Blouse Fund must also be added EUR 600 million for the implementation of the social agreement. This is about EUR 1 billion for the health sector. In Mobility, we reinvested in rail after years of savings and despite the difficult budgetary context. With regard to the recovery plan, we were lagging behind neighbouring countries, with a government installed on 1 October 2020. But we have given a new impetus with EUR 5.9 billion that will be invested in the energy transition, digital and mobility of tomorrow. The social tariff for gas and electricity was extended as soon as the government was installed in the context of the covid crisis. In September 2021, this tariff allowed its beneficiaries to pay 67% less for their natural gas and 29% less for their electricity. We expanded birth leave - 15 days on January 1, 2021 and 20 days from January 1, 2023. We are also moving forward on the ground with fairer taxation, with a contribution of almost half a billion, from capital. We are also moving towards fairer taxation of multinationals, although there are still things to be done. That is why I call on the Minister of Finance to step up his vigilance and efforts to ensure that, at European level, we can move towards this harmonised minimum rate for multinationals, with a number of guarantees as to the efficiency of this tax system, which will restore some tax fairness in the functioning of our economy. As for the GAFAM tax, remember the content of the government agreement. It is also a matter of moving forward together at European level, but, as the government agreement states, if there is no concrete agreement, then we will do so at national level. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also recognize the difficulties we are in. We are facing a health crisis which has called for considerable resources: EUR 24 billion of various and varied support measures at all levels - to households, businesses, public services, to the community fabric, to the cultural sector and to a range of other sectors. This EUR 24 billion has mechanically increased the deficit and negative structural balance that we are facing today, which means that the budgetary target of EUR 20 billion is still an ongoing objective. However, it shows the seriousness of the financial situation in which we are. It's even worse than what we've been through with the Lehman Brothers financial crisis. This means that, in order to find a relevant point of comparison, it is most certainly necessary to go back to the mid-1980s, with the adverse consequences of the oil crises of the 1970s. That is the challenge we face today, whether at the federal and regional level, but also at the local level. Despite this – and that is what we must rejoice at – the government does not impose austerity. On the contrary, it comes with positive measures for our fellow citizens, which will be deemed insufficient by some, considered to be in the right direction by others, but which exist. We have already discussed widely this morning the measures taken on energy, with the enlargement of the social tariff for the most disadvantaged, with an additional €80 for the same public, and a whole range of accompanying measures. This will enable 900,000 families to benefit from substantial support, while we are facing an upsurge in energy prices, which I recalled earlier that they are not due to endogenous elements, but to elements outside the international sphere and which, nevertheless, reflect an effort by the government in the very difficult budgetary context that has already been discussed. Of course, I will also highlight the additional €16 million from the Gas-Electricity Fund, which is also intended, as a matter of priority, through the CPAS, for the most needy audiences. All these measures will benefit social groups – it is a political choice that is assumed as such – and publics who are confronted with the difficulties we face (disabled people, people who benefit from guaranteed income, an integration allowance, widows and widowers, pensioners, invalids, tenants of social housing, orphans, some unemployed). In short, there are those who today have very low incomes and who can expect support of the order of 880 or sometimes 900 euros. These are concrete measures that clearly demonstrate that the government has set itself a priority: to help the people most in difficulty. A lot has been said about the middle class, and I will not go back to the subject. We are once again trying to ensure that, in an extremely difficult budgetary context, we make choices, which are sometimes difficult, are essential. Nevertheless, I consider that, thanks to the 300 million euros, which correspond to the envelope linked to the reform of the special social security contribution, the government has the possibility, with the right adjustments, to give a bowl of oxygen also to the middle class. We will see what criteria are used. That will be part of the debate. I think there is clearly a substantial envelope, given the financial realities of our country. Of course, the transformation of a number of compulsory levies on the invoice to make them easier to reorganise in terms of tax justice - in particular the conversion of certain levies into excise duties - will also make it possible to return up to EUR 50 to households either low or medium-income. In short, an additional envelope that will allow the government to produce efforts. I repeat, we are not part of a restrictive policy. We are not part of a policy of austerity. This is the whole sense of direction and option that the federal government is taking on investment. Yes, we will inject a billion euros! We would have liked to do more, but it is one billion euros which is in addition to what had already been made clear in the case of the European Recovery Plan and which will also allow us to refinance our infrastructure, modernise our economic fabric and also ensure additional investments in mobility and transition. It is certainly not in this forum that I must recall – we have often debated this – that support for public demand is an element of supporting economic growth, such as private demand. However, this will create jobs that themselves will contribute to a rebalancing of our public accounts, but also to strengthening the dynamics of our economic fabric for the benefit of our society more generally, the creation of jobs, of course, but also an increase in tax and parafiscal revenues. In short, with the European Recovery Plan, the efforts that are being made in the regions and the efforts already being made by the government – remember the €328 million allocated in April – the option taken here clearly reflects a true economic policy and makes investment a key element in the recovery of the economy. That, too, marks a break-up that I would like to stress. As for mobility, of which we also spoke a lot this morning, what is the substance of our remarks? Our point is to consider that investing in mobility is not an aesthetic choice. It's a necessity. We have to do it. Indeed, if we consider that the challenges of climate change involve the abandonment of certain fossil fuels and the change of modes of transport, we must also be able to live up to the supply side. That is the whole meaning of the investments that we will spend, EUR 250 million, in addition to the EUR 350 million already provided for in previous budgets, to invest in rail and to strengthen our offer of public transport and therefore public transport services. It is a necessity which also meets an imperative enabling the climate transition, the environmental transition. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that because this was also discussed this morning, a major reform of the labour market is now on the table. First of all, and that is the essential thing, it is the return of social cooperation as a method. It was a prerequisite of the socialist family. We got it. We believe that social democracy is in addition to parliamentary democracy and that, when, in a country like ours, many people choose union membership in order to be able to express their legitimate demands for a fair wage and work in good conditions, we must be able to give social consultation, between the union bench and the employer, every opportunity to be able to contribute also to the building of society and its prosperity. This is why all aspects of labour market reform will have to go through social consultation. The organization of working time has been mentioned. Reference was made to night work in a number of sectors. Within limits and with a clear outline and framework, a whole series of other adaptations have been mentioned. All this will have to go through social consultation because it is not said and it is not assumed that there is an intrinsic incompatibility between, on the one hand, the objective of increasing the rate of employment and, on the other hand, the fact of continuing to ensure working conditions and the reconciliation between private and professional life. This is our creed, and we will continue to do so throughout the discussions that will come, either between the social partners or within our Parliament. Another important element, which also marks a turning point in policy, is the extension of social rights chosen by this government. The Socialist Group therefore welcomes the fact that today, with the agreement of the Government, there is a real right to training of at least five days. This is a new social right for workers. In other words, they will no longer be at the mercy of the goodwill of an employer or employer, but will draw from a formal legislative text a real right to training. This is a major step forward. In the same way, on the issue of jobs in short supply, I am pleased to see a government that has chosen the path of encouragement and encouragement rather than that of penalisation and punishment, as some dreamed of, by ideology. Here, too, there are very concrete measures, such as the possibility of combining – temporarily – an unemployment benefit with an income from work. This is a very good approach, which must be encouraged, regardless of the file. We talked about the end of the one-day medical certificate. This is a good measure to avoid some kind of bureaucracy. One should not be suspicious of certain doctors, it is not to do justice to the profession. What a bureaucracy! Yes, it can happen to wake up one day when you're really sick. In addition to having to go to a doctor to enter a certificate, all that adds is harassment which, in the end, is expensive for the system and the employer. Things will be done in a balanced environment. That goes in the right direction. There has been a lot of misinformation on the issue of accompaniment for long-term patients. I know long-term patients like you. It is not simple and there is indeed a risk of being at some point outside the circuits of work, of social circuits, of retreating on oneself. The goal is to accompany, not penalize. The objective, when someone receives a questionnaire or an invitation to a consultation, is to provide an answer so that their situation is consolidated and consolidated and to leave the logic of dismissal because of illness. I know people, who have been sick for a long time, who end up in their employer's collimator. Here, and this is a major step forward, the aim is to separate the reintegration route from the dismissal route and to ensure that there is no longer a link between the reintegration of long-term sick workers and the risk of dismissal. This is the heart of the reform and, here too, we will need a discussion with the social partners. The aim is not to punish or penalise, but to ensure that long-term patients can be reintegrated in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u4	Mr Laaouej, I had said to myself that I was not going to interrupt you so as not to feed the PS-PTB game, but when you discuss the question of misinformation yourself, I have to answer! You're saying the point is not to punish. I ask you, then, whether or not the government agreement presented here today allows, for the first time, to punish people who refuse to return to the so-called dynamics of reintegration and accountability. You're saying that's not the case. Can you tell Mr Vandenbroucke today that there will be no penalty of 2.5% of the compensation for people who refuse to go logically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u5	(...) When I read the elements that are on the table, it is exactly the opposite! It is a matter of ensuring – as far as I know it would already involve 10,000 people – that the reintegration route is separated from the possibility of the dismissal procedure on grounds of force majeure for medical reasons. That's what's in the deal. In addition, when someone receives a questionnaire, it is necessary to ensure that they complete it. When you consult a doctor-counsel, it's not to have extra problems, it's to see his situation consolidated. And if you are really sick, you have to be able to claim the basic social right of sickness benefits when you are not able to go to work for medical reasons. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and it will not prevent us from ensuring that there are no diminished social rights, that there is no attack on social protections in the field of health insurance and that the social rights of workers are safeguarded. It is important to avoid considering that there is a fatality for someone to be ill and to be outside the social circuits and the circuits of work. Where you see punishment, I see prevention. What you forget to say is that the proposed system also empowers employers to whom additional obligations are imposed to ensure greater well-being at work and decent and acceptable working conditions. The beginnings of the reform currently on the table say precisely that we have sick people in companies because their working conditions, well-being, stress or burn out are unfortunately at the root of their situation. I also think that such a dossier should be discussed with the social partners. The Socialists will not join in a logic of sanction, but in a logic of prevention that puts first the obligations of employers and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u6	Mr Laaouej, you have still not answered the question that I have asked you clearly. That you have to swallow snakes in the negotiations, I can understand that. On the other hand, I don't understand how you justify them. You act as if there was no qualitative and historical decision taken by the government agreement. You minimize the fact that someone who refuses to complete this form can be punished. Of the 490,000 long-term patients in Belgium, 160,000 are for psychological reasons. Among the questions asked in this form, they are asked what they are prepared to do to get back to work. It is not a small question for the worker who is in burn out or who is suffering psychologically. The person already feels guilty. She's already set aside. She's carrying a lot of pressure on her shoulders. Those people who have been suffering and who have been sick for a long time will have to complete a questionnaire with such questions. In fact, you have to sanction them in order to force them to complete this questionnaire. Those who do not want to complete this questionnaire are not parasites or lazy people. They do not feel able to enter such a process. The 2.5% are symbolic, as you say yourself. Maybe it's symbolic when there's a lot of money in question. But when it comes to 900 euros a month, this 2.5% represents something. Socialist friends, I understand that you have to accept certain conditions from Mr Vandenbroucke. But stop minimizing the weight of this decision and the fact that mutualities (socialists, Christians) say they are disgusted with this measure. You say it's no big deal and the goal is to reintegrate the workers. Stop minimizing these kinds of problems! Another point you're addressing is what happens after the six months. You say, "Ah, today, we're not firing anymore." You bring the six months to nine months. But that's another question, Mr. Laaouej. The main question is this: can we punish people who today refuse to enter the dynamic? I find that it is indeed a red line that is out of date. You better stop justifying her. You'd better say, "Okay, we didn't have the balance of forces, sorry, we had to step back." But today you are explaining to the workers that this sanction is justified. You really get into a very negative spiral for the whole world of work. I will explain earlier, with Mr Vandenbroucke or with Mr Depraetere, why the Flemish Socialists are so avant-garde on the subject. You've already made the mistake with the unemployment hunt once. You make a second mistake when you chase the long-term sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u7	What I do not like, Mr Hedebouw, is your political method, which caricatures, whatever the measure, whatever the reform. A caricature that ends up not hearing what I'm telling you. For example, you do not note that the procedure of dismissal for cases of force majeure, for medical reasons, is separated from the procedure of reintegration. I'm telling you, these are the first fruits. This will allow at least 10,000 people not to find themselves trapped in this hellish cycle where a boss, when he wants to dismiss someone for medical reasons, now has all the facilities to do so. With this, we empower the employer, and we impose obligations on him: "What are you doing in practice to make your worker feel at work, to avoid burn out, stress?" These are realities, Mr. Hedebouw. You don't stress them because they don't fix you. I understand that. On the other hand, Mr. Hedebouw, the PTB is in a bad position to do morals. The PTB is ill-placed to say that it defends workers. Mr Prime Minister - and indeed you applauded him, what indecency! - made a verse on the issue of human rights in Europe and around the world, the rise of populism, extremism. We in Parliament - and we honour ourselves for that - with courage vis-à-vis one of the world's largest powers, we have denounced forced labour camps, the sterilization of women, and the locked-up children. They are workers, Mr. Hedebouw, yes, workers! What are you doing? You're going to bed! You're scared! Is that the defense of workers? When we defend the workers, Mr Hedebouw, it is here in Belgium, as in the world, that we must do it. I thought you were a great internationalist. But you're a coward, Mr. Hedebouw! What's the problem? Is that because they're Muslims? Because it's a minority in China? Mr. Hedebouw, it's not you. You're a nice guy, binama! You're doing shows. We're having fun, no problem. It is the people who are behind you who are responsible, dangerous ideologues who have not renounced Stalinism, see Maoism. We don't know exactly what you're up to today. When it comes to defending workers, it's not just in Belgium, Mr Hedebouw. Another element to talk about the new PTB policy. Peter Mertens, one of your top leaders, spent a year on his personal promotion needs 400,000 euros on Facebook. That's eight nurses' salary, Mr. Hedebouw. Rather than spending money on your propaganda by feeding multinationals like Facebook, which hides its money in tax havens, you'd better be a little more modest. We have no moral lessons to receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u8	Madam President, I do not wish to interrupt this lively debate, but Mr Hedebouw has been pressing for a short answer since this morning. We'll be able to discuss it tonight, and in detail. First of all, let's start with the facts. You say that we are introducing an historic novelty with sanctions in the sickness benefit scheme. However, those sanctions already exist, and in particular Article 143. A person may be suspended if he or she does not do what the medical consultant asks him or her to do. And do you know how much a person will survive in that case? Nothing. So it already exists. Those are the facts. Secondly, the kind of questions that these people will be asked is how they are doing, whether they still see opportunities in their business and whether their leadership understands their situation. Its purpose is to help people, to arm them. Moreover, those questions will not be asked to a person who is dead sick or bedridden, nor to a person who is on sick leave for four weeks on account of a broken leg. Those questions will be carefully examined. It's supposed to give people opportunities. 'Cause doing nothing doesn't exclude hundreds of thousands of people from giving discourse like you like to do. The difference between us lies in our view of solidarity, most certainly, Mr Hedebouw. Solidarity means that people in need or not should be given everyone they are entitled to. But everyone has to do their part, too. The employer must do much more than today, and this will involve automatic sanctions. Automatic! The sickness funds, the Regions, the politics, all have to do more. But when people are asked how they are doing and whether their employer understands their situation, and when they want to start a process for them and call them after several times and insist on blocking the process, can we not impose it as an obligation? That is the essence of solidarity, Mr Hedebouw. Everyone who needs it gets their share, and everyone does their share. You don't seem to want to understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u9	I'll answer in two steps. First of all, very briefly, to Mr Laaouej. It's not with China or Facebook that you're going to get away with! You understand that. You see the polls, that's not what you're gonna do! You are right, Minister, that we have a totally different view of what solidarity means. You have brought ideas from England about the social welfare state. You are fully committed to the activation of the unemployed. To activate the unemployed, you are at the top. Hunting down unemployed people would help. It is the same story as that of the generational pact, where the bridge pensioners were hunted down and bridge pensions abolished. The people you chased with the generation pact in 2005 are long-term ill today. There is, after all, a link between the dismantling of bridge pensions and the early retirement pension in our country. You are at the root of this and the long-term illness of tens of thousands of people. How many people couldn't go on a bridge pension last year? 60,000. How many people got sick for a long time last year? 72,000. The link is clear. People have been working tired. You minimize what you will do now. Of course, there may be sanctions, if one does not participate from the beginning. However, there are 160,000 people suffering from psychological disorders. Psychiatrists and health insurance funds agree and socialist mutualities say it: culpabilising people in such a situation is dramatic. It's not gonna work. Do you guys still hear that? You are at the root of the development of such measures, Mr Vandenbroucke. I don't understand why a socialist would do this. Look at the social media, check out the grassroots. People are angry about these measures concerning the long-term sick. Socialists, get back to work. Stop such a right-wing policy and ensure solidarity, not culpability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the fantastic introduction. I share your belief that I underlined this in committee last week - that we must have a real social policy on long-term sick people. As we know, you held a passionate plea for resilience, 360 degrees around, of workers, employers, health insurance funds and even of the regions. I love it! Your guidelines of what you yourself think should be done are fantastic. I'd just like to ask you a big question that I got from Professor Baert. What would Professor Vandenbroucke think of the symbolic effect of his great principles? That professor would be very disappointed. After all, the reality is that 2.5% of the workers' response, because after three months they refuse to fill out a form, will not really be worth anything. In order to respond to employers, one is not looking at what they are trying to do to prevent long-term illness among their employees, but linearly at figures that can indicate quite different things. Responding to employers could lead to workers with a history of long-term illness no longer being recruited. Responding to the health insurance funds is no good at all. After all, you do nothing about their variable administrative costs, which are paid at a rate of 20%. You trade in much-needed response measures for your actions. Finally, you are talking about the regional response. We are very much in favour of this. Finally, it is clear that asymmetric policies must be allowed. Minister Crevits also has a fantastic plan at the Flemish level. We will support Minister Crevits. The title is indeed in the present agreement, but it seems as if no one has read the text below it. The policy is very asymmetric, but it is entirely in the wrong direction. After all, we will provide additional finance for the sections of the regions. These additional finances are intended for those regions where the support ratio is lagging behind. So we will punish the regions, if they have been doing good work in this area for years, such as the Flemish Region, and give more money to the Walloon and Brussels Region, which until now do not do jota in that area. In fact, the budget you are making available for this is smaller than the demand, just by Flemish Minister Crevits for the 5,000 sections from next year and the 10,000 sections the following year. You don't even have that amount. You will give Flanders nothing and give Wallonia all sorts of things, because that region, ochame, has done nothing in that area so far. You know better, Minister. Your vision of long-term sick people is fantastic, but you've picked up a lousy prize from the PS, hunted by the PTB. You're sticking to symbolism. In a few years, it will prove that your loot was worth nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u11	As Mrs van Peel asks me a question and I answer all the questions, I should like to apologize for a small professoral intermezzo. Mrs Van Peel, you refer to what I did in 2003-2004 with regard to the activation of the unemployed. The situation is not quite comparable, because we are talking about people who are sick. That's something completely different. There is one element that is similar. We had discussed our action in 2003 for a very long time in advance. We finally decided, finally, that we would send a letter to every unemployed person. I then explained to my colleagues that we had a sad view of rights and obligations towards the unemployed: the right to cash but not the right to help. The duties, that was the raid of the famous article 143, later article 80, which immediately excluded thousands of people, mainly women, without warning and without offering assistance. As a young man in the early 80s, I had argued against that situation and was glad that I could put an end to it 30 years later. We have then replaced the sad view on the duties with very gradual and slight sanctions. We have moved from a sad view of rights and obligations to a rich view of rights and obligations. It was announced in a letter. Now comes the little professoral intermezzo. A brilliant econometric study was published about this letter, led by Professor Bart Cockx, about which I later had many questions answered by my students. It is a very good econometric study, in which Professor Bart Cockx has shown that merely sending that letter has already had a very clear effect on activation. People felt addressed. That's what this is about. My view of reality is different from yours, Mrs Van Peel. No, one should not take 5 %, 10 % or 20 % from people to push them into poverty and lead them to work. It's not about that. You shouldn't say: we're going to make you poorer, then you'll look harder. People need to be told that we're starting to help them. This is a process that involves some administration and obligations. A lot of people who are ill for a long time want to get back to work. They need help. It's also about their health and well-being. You want big theatrical debates. You're knocking on all sorts of things, based on symbolism. I'm not interested in that at all. It is about a new chapter of our social policy, in which we stop stigmatizing people as unfit. That's the worst thing, they get a certificate of incapacity. Isn't that stigma? Isn't it much better if the doctors tell those people what they can do? Isn't it much better if we send these people a questionnaire? Do you think your colleagues understand how you're doing? Does your supervisor understand? How do you see it? How do you feel about that? That's different from stigmatization. You will probably continue, Mr Hedebouw, because you are incorrigible. Mrs Van Peel, you will do the same in your own way. You will continue to hold great theatrical discourse and knock up symbols here, but you will not talk about the reality of things and the question of solidarity. Solidarity is helping people. Everyone's gonna do their part in that. That is a chapter that we are beginning to write and which will require a great deal of work. I will listen to this theatrical debate and I think mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u12	Mr. Professor, excuse me, Minister, if anyone is incorrigible, it is you. As soon as you turn from Mr Hedebouw to me, you apply the Hedebouw tactics by pretending that I want to stigmatise and push the long-term sick into poverty even more. I do not need to repeat that we do not support such a policy and that our group has tabled most of the legislative proposals on the issue in committee, because we have a very clear view on this, which is not at all aimed at stigmatising or targeting long-term sick people. Our country is breaking the record of long-term ill throughout Europe and we want to see our policies considered properly. When you say that it is about helping people and helping them more and that they cannot be solved, then I totally agree, but why do you go from a counseling that can start after four months, to a counseling that starts after three months, when every expert in this country says that it should start from day one, just like we say it should? That's socialism, from day one or even earlier talking about what can be better and not just after three months. So you didn't bring in what you wanted. You call for a departure from binary thinking where someone is ill or not sick and everyone else is released. You are arguing for a reflection on what an employee can do and how we can keep him in the labour market and society. Well, then we are the only party to do something in this area rather than leave balloons in the press. We have had a proposal pending in committee for a long time with regard to a fitnote, where we are dealing here. We want to involve the general practitioner in a policy where one no longer looks at the long-term ill as someone who, by definition, has to stay at home for so many weeks, but is considering what he or she can do and discussing it with the employer. However, your majority did not want to decide on that dossier because you, Minister Vandenbroucke, would solve it, but today you come up with nothing. You come with three additional holidays, but you do not devote any further measures. Once again, Mr Vandenbroucke, you do not have to stigmatize me, because we are ridiculously in agreement with your idea of dealing with long-term sick people and a genuine social policy. Only, I keep pleading for that to be carried out and not pretended. What is in the agreement today is pretending, and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u13	Madam President, the Minister is asking for a debate and not a theatrical debate. I want to talk about numbers. Minister, you are talking about responding to employers. The problem is today on an interprofessional level. There is clearly a link between all measures before the end of the career and the fact that people are tired of working. You didn't answer that. To respond to employers, you will work with an average of the sectors. But if there are such problems in all sectors, you cannot respond to them. I would just ask the government to address the structural causes of the fact that so many workers have broken down today and of the flight that the number of long-term sick people in the three parts of the country have had over the past ten years. What's that about? Is that just because of individual management problems? Is it just the individual psychology of the employees? Not at all. It's the workload. All surveys show workers that the problem lies in the workload, productivity and flexibility. Everyone is called upon to be flexible, do you think it has no effect on the head of the workers to have to work so flexibly? A few hours on the left, a few hours on the right, Sunday work, when do people have time for their families? You will now work with an average. So you're not actually doing anything about the employer. That is the problem, Minister, it is not about symbols. If you don't think symbols are important, why did you decide on the 2.5 % measure? Isn't that a symbol? Yes, it is! You wanted to give the signal that responsibility is also valid for workers, because they are also partly responsible for the fact that they are not yet working again. You work with symbols, not me. I am working on social policy and I will continue to oppose it over the next two or three years, you can count on it, Minister. We will continue to ensure that anti-social policies are not toughened and that we can pursue a genuine social policy with the social forces in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u14	Madam President, in substance, Mr Hedebouw makes it possible for me to conclude by talking about social progress. Mr Hedebouw, a billion injected to increase the lowest social benefits, are you for or against? Do you dislike a billion public investments? Will you oppose the minimum wage of 14 euros? The minimum pensions of 1,500 euros, can you say again? And you are also criticising the 600 million earmarked for a social agreement for health care! Apart from the blabla, criticizing to criticize, gesticulating, what are you doing in practice, Mr. Hedebouw? More and more, your party, the PTB, is the party of the blabla. Prime Minister, you will have our trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u15	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. I suggest that you leave the questions for the thematic debates and move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u16	Madam President, I have a suggestion for colleagues. I propose for the next time to start with the thematic discussions and then move on to the general discussion. We're gonna buy time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u17	Mr Laaouej, what we are doing today is extremely important. A government asks us to trust it. How does that work? She comes up with a number of plans, which we can then assess. There are figures and we indicate whether or not they are realistic. We can give confidence, expressing our will that the government may or may not implement the measures. My parents have always taught me that it is good to trust people, but also that one should be sure and therefore not be allowed to sign blank cheques. At least we need to know what the plans are and what exactly will happen before we do such a gesture and give confidence. Mr Laaouej, there is a reason why I am asking you this question. The PS has many important ministers in the current government. You have the Minister for Work, Mr Dermagne, who we know about what he will do in the coming year, even though we do not think that is enough. You have the Minister for Investment, Mr Dermine, whom we think his priorities are not entirely correct. However, we have about an idea of what he will do. You brought in the Secretary of Defense, who didn't bring in anything. We shall have the debate on this, but at least we know that it has not made any progress. There is, however, one minister, on whom there is total silence. That is Minister Lalieux, responsible for the subject of the coming year. What will happen to people's pensions? That is the theme of the next year together with the nuclear power stations. For nuclear power stations, we also know about what will happen. It's bad, but at least we know about it. However, we do not know anything about pensions. What did we see? Mrs Lalieux has come out and has only shot at a number of pension plans, all of which all experts have indicated that they are totally unbelievable and that we cannot sleep on both ears. All people are worried. People are worried. They wonder whether they can trust that their pension will be paid. What does Mrs Lalieux explain at the time? She says there's no need to panic. People can rely on it. The money will be there. To the question where this money comes from, she answers that we will move towards an employment rate of 80%. So there will be more tax revenues. Panic is not necessary: the pennies are there. What, however, are we seeing today? You barely manage to come out with measures to bring up the activation level. If this is the case, the support plans will yield only EUR 1.2 billion. That money cannot be used to pay pensions. After all, it must already be used to dampen your budget sinks. As you ask us here for confidence, the right question is what you will do with people's pensions. There are three options. Firstly, you say that the pension reform comes with a cost, that it will cost. It is important that we know that, and Mrs De Bleeker, in particular, knows that. This means that its budget is built even more on quicksand than it already is today. Secondly, you say that the reform is budget-neutral, but then people are supposed to know about how it is going to go. You cannot maintain that this is due to the high level of activity, because the proceeds are already being spent on something else. Thirdly, you can also argue, and I hope this - that the scheme will bring something for the budget, because you will be able to convince more people to work longer. But if you are asking for confidence on such an important dossier, can we at least have an indication? The Prime Minister did not think it worth even a letter in his government agreement. People's pensions weren't worth a word in the Prime Minister's State of the Union. I hope, Mr Laaouej, that you have a little more respect for the people and that you will give us an insight into what will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u18	Mr Loones, you will obviously have the opportunity to deepen the subject in the framework of the thematic discussions. But maybe you missed an episode? Indeed, it was precisely decided not to make it a variable of budgetary adjustment. The subject of pensions is so serious that it deserves better than budgetary arbitrations when fundamental social rights are called into question. I would point out that, if there is a legal pension system in our country, it is to ensure that as the economic capacity of citizens diminishes due to age, they can be entitled to a replacement income. That is what we are basically talking about. It is one of the cornerstones of our social protection. All that would be lacking would be to mix this issue in budgetary discussions because money must be found. Who today, except perhaps you - I don't know - Mr Loones, will agree to make savings at the same time that we are going to reform the pension system? First, we will reform the pension system to ensure that it is in line with basic principles of social justice such as those I have just mentioned, that it corresponds to the evolution of life, because we realize that our pension system is very unequal to certain categories of the population. I am thinking in particular of women. It can also be a very good tool that will allow us to have an activation policy or, in any case, ambitious in terms of employment rates, by ensuring that people who decide to work a number of more years can be rewarded with the pension bonus. This can be especially the opportunity - and this is why Mrs Lalieux's proposals are more than interesting and necessary - to no longer focus on the retirement age, but on the length of the career, knowing that from a certain number of years on, you have the right to breathe, especially when you have been in a difficult job. All the elements are on the table. This is before the government. If you want to have a debate on pensions, I would ask all colleagues to consider that thematic discussions are planned, that there is a committee in which you have already been able to have discussions with the minister concerned, which is available to answer all your questions. But the principles I have just set out are, for us Socialists, intangible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u19	Mr Laaouej, you are right, there will be thematic debates, but this is the only round after which the Prime Minister will also respond. This is why I am raising the issue: people should know what the Prime Minister, who has not said a word about retirement, thinks about it. I note that Mr Laaouej has the message for Prime Minister De Croo that Mrs Lalieux's plans are not only interesting, but also nécessaires. He mainly refers to the duration of work. So my question to the Prime Minister is: are ten years enough to get a full pension? Is that really the plan? That is the content of the PS plans which he has not yet mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u20	With Mr. Anseew's permission, I still had a minute to speak before leaving the gallery. Madam President, can I then have another minute for my presentation after the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u21	Mr Laaouej, you are, in fact, the only majority leader who really matters here today. We should not be faint about that. You are doing particularly well when it comes to getting the points that are important to you. We have seen this in the drafting of the coalition agreement in which all matters which the PS considers important as binding agreements were explicitly registered. Things you are not immediately awake or of which you are not a big fan were previously registered as non-binding and to be investigated. That's no different in this State of the Union. What has been registered as binding in the coalition agreement, and which is not affected by this State of the Union, in other words, is increasing the employment rate towards 80% by 2030. Of course, this requires activation measures. One can activate in two ways, namely with the root or with the stick. I understand that you, as a genuine socialist, consider this root to be particularly important and that you are very keen to watch over social spending which must be sufficiently high. You are doing this very well in this government, and you will also have sufficient room for that. At the end of your speech, you referred to 1 billion extra expenditure to increase the lowest benefits. For the sake of clarity, I think that many of those lowest benefits should be able to be increased. I note, however, that the most important part of these increases is a sharp increase in unemployment benefits. My question to you, therefore, is how to reconcile the very strong increase in unemployment benefits with the difference between working and not working, which is actually necessary to get more people to work? In what way can raising unemployment benefits lead to more people getting into work, while the difference between working and not working gets smaller?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u22	I'm not going to customize the debate. I thank you for the compliment. I have the weakness to believe that a compliment is not necessarily a flattery. That's the whole difference between you and us. Don't take it badly, it's democratic life! I think you see behind every social beneficiary any one – an unemployed person or a sick person – a cheater in power. Like he doesn't deserve his income. I assume that a replacement income replaces an income from work. There are hazards of life. I come from a very popular and labor-oriented environment. Sometimes there are people who lose their jobs, people who get sick. I've even known people who died from their work, in coal mines for example. These people are entitled to a replacement income. The latter must enable them to live and to meet basic needs: to pay rent, to go to the doctor and to assume the part which is not reimbursed, to dress the children or to meet the costs of school. You consider replacement income to be too high. If a socialist wants to increase social benefits, the lowest income, unemployment benefits, etc., this is a problem. We are just and we are trying to ensure that everyone can live with dignity. It's our creed, we won't change it. Good if you accept it, if not so bad! For the rest, income from work is also an important topic. We are in favour of increasing wages, especially low and medium incomes from work. Indeed, it is justified that there may be a significant difference between work income and replacement income. But the problem does not lie in the level of unemployment benefit. It turns out that some wages are too low. That is why the battle for the minimum wage or the increase in the minimum wage is very important. We always stand by the workers when they claim it. We believe that the wealth produced in our country must be equitably distributed between capital and labour. It must be ensured that when workers make available to an employer their ability to work and their economic abilities, and use their lives to produce wealth, they have the right to have an equitable sharing of the wealth produced. That is what we Socialists think.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u23	Mr Laaouej, it was a special year, by corona. Like you, I'm mayor. We spent a lot of time in the corona crisis and tried to take it well. In general, I think that the current situation is definitely moving in the right direction. About corona, it's never really tense in the government. Maybe sometimes it was exciting, but politically never tense. The moment it was close, it was the hunger striker's file. You have not said anything about this, nor has the Prime Minister, yet no one has spoken about migration, but no unimportant issue when I look at the 2019 election results. I've asked a lot of questions about migration. This was very difficult in the government. Your Minister, Mr Dermagne, threatened at some point that the PS ministers would withdraw if there were a death among the hunger strikers. A death would, of course, be incredibly bad, no one wants it. However, I am now concerned about the political crisis that has arisen. A solution has been found, but that solution is not entirely clear to me. Every two weeks, I'm under Secretary of State Mahdi's orders. I understand that there are currently 326 files submitted for regularisation, which was the state of play on 4 October. The people in the Beguinage Church are very nervous and threaten a new hunger strike if there is no solution. Mr Laaouej, do you think that the 326 files with applications for humanitarian regularisation should be treated as a priority? Do you think that a new instruction should be given to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u24	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly to Mr Laaouej's reply, which in fact did not answer my question. He has, probably unintentionally, wanted to give the impression that I always find replacement income too high, whereas I have just said the opposite, because I said that a replacement income certainly has its place. I have said that the difference between working and not working is always getting smaller in this country and that this is not consistent with the idea that more people should be helped to get to work. The difference between an income from work and a replacement income should be large enough. Mr Laaouej, you did not answer my question and you did not contradict me either, so perhaps we are more in agreement than at first sight. I appreciate your implicit agreement to the statement I made earlier. However, please do not put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. For those who need a replacement income, that really must be high enough. At the same time, I am convinced that if the difference between working and not working becomes too small, we will have a hard time getting people to work. Yet the latter is one of your government's great ambitions, because it is in the end. However, we do not see that ambition in the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u25	Let's take a step back over the last 20 years. As I said earlier, there are three ways to increase a worker's disposable income: personal social contributions can be reduced, labour income taxes can be reduced, and gross wages can be increased. We do not know a fourth, except here and there possible subsidies for employment, etc. But basically, these are the three ways to do it. For a very long time, governments have been taunting the ability of the social partners to agree on wage programming. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. This is particularly difficult when we are in a period of economic crisis. That is where governments are taking action. I am talking about all governments, each in a different way sometimes. This requires major tax reforms, such as the one in 2001, during which almost EUR 4 billion was injected to review the tax system of personal taxes, targeting mainly low- and middle-income people, even though marginal rates have been abolished. But in the four billion, it didn't mean much. This was done by targeting a reform of the scale, raising tax-exempt quotas, and even creating a tax credit that initially applied to all low incomes and was then extended to self-employed income. The envelope devoted – Mr Vandenbroucke remembers – to the income of employees has been recycled into werkbonus, i.e. reduced personal social contributions. In this regard, I am not going to repeat the entire history of tax reforms in our country, but as we can see, every new government – certainly not with the magnitude of the 2001 reform, but still – has spent money sometimes on raising the exempt quota for low and middle income – which added to the net every month – and sometimes on increasing the deductible flat-rate charges. In short, different techniques have been applied to achieve what you want, i.e. an increase in the income of wage-earners and self-employed. In 2008 the Lehman Brothers case took place. This led to a considerable public finance crisis. We barely had time to raise our head a little bit that the Corona crisis has arrived. So, the means are lacking. What is this government trying to do? Nevertheless, he tries to find ways to try to be as effective as possible. Indeed, euros are scarce and even very rare. Yes, we will be working here on a reform of the special social security contribution. It won't be enough for you. This will cover 300 million. I expect, as you do, the concrete arrangements, but this envelope is clear. In the same way, we are also trying, as far as possible, to move towards a strengthening of the werkbonus. To do this, I see only one way, that is to say, to raise a little bit the ceiling below which one is entitled to it. Here too, we will see what can be done. But the real subject is the primary distribution of wealth, that is, the way in which the wealth produced is distributed between workers and shareholders. This is where we will not agree, because I too want to increase wages, but not necessarily to the detriment of other taxpayers (pensionees, beneficiaries, all those who are not directly employed but who nevertheless contribute to the functioning of our society). That is why this is the real debate: to make use of certain income generated by speculation and to make further progress in the fight against tax fraud. I have not had time to develop, and I am calling on all Members of Parliament to help in the Committee on Finance, with the support of Parliament, to make progress in the fight against fraud and financial crime. We are going to look for the money that should enter the circuit and that enriches certain privileged groups instead of proceeding with an equitable distribution of wealth in order, at the same time, to finance our services and our social protection. What I invite you to do, Mr. Anseeuw, is to have a comprehensive approach to the problem. If you focus only on a difference between income from work and income from replacement, you will certainly be right on the record, but the way to respond to it is, in my opinion, much more multidimensional than the simple binary logic of targeting either replacement income or income from work. It seems to me that both can be taken into account by giving us the means through comprehensive fiscal, economic and budgetary policies. And that is what the Socialist Group is proposing. To answer you, Mr Franken, can we at least agree on respect for human dignity? Your creed is to say: there are laws, regulations, circulars, they must apply. That's justice, Kant's categorical imperative. Your creed is Kant's categorical imperative, if I may say so. What I'm saying is that while regulation allows it, there may be real situations of human distress that may call for a surge in our approach. Here too, by the way, we cannot make the economy of a real global approach, particularly on the relationship between the North and the South, on the major sources of migration, on the major imbalances in the world, on the inequitable distribution of wealth between the North and the South. These are debates that we must hold, too. With regard to the hunger strike, you will tell me that these people have put themselves under these conditions. But who's on a hunger strike out of envy? It's a cry of despair! I run a small town and I am faced with difficult decisions on a daily basis, and I have to apply regulations. In the face of human distress and the danger of death, there is a need to be able to agree between people who consider that this is not simply a parameter, that it is perhaps an imperative need only to care about it. For the rest, you ask how the Secretary of State should handle the files. It must deal with them in accordance with the rules that are required of it, of course, but also, with the possibilities offered by the regulation, it must be able to take account of realities on the basis of criteria which can be read in a very differentiated way depending on whether one has a restrictive, extensive or literal approach. This then concerns the discretion of someone such as the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who is in charge of high responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u26	Madam President, Minister, let me begin with the budget agreement, which the Prime Minister also started yesterday, in a press conference in view of the contempt for this House. The press conference lasted twice as long as the government statement itself. It is sometimes claimed that ambition is the beginning of unhappiness. Actually, that contains a truth. If one lays the bar very low, one may go through life as a happy person. I therefore assume that you and your government members want to go through life very happily and cheerfully. Witness the fact that you have set the bar very low, namely a budgetary effort of up to EUR 2.5 billion on a total deficit of around EUR 20 billion. There is no serious plan to get public finances back on track in the coming years. We are not even talking about the structural reorganization of reddish budget figures and public debt. Everyone knows where the money is. Billions of transfers, the migration bill, the European Union, the political system, but all these sacred houses are not affected. On the contrary, people want to believe that there are only crumbs in the margins. The only binding between the vivaldi parties used to be corona and fear of the voter. Today, in addition to fear of elections, we are talking about additional taxes, taxes and levies. However, there would be no new taxes. That was a promise from your own coalition agreement. Some people can't keep promises. However, it is even worse if you cannot remember promises. Don't worry, I'll quote: "No new taxes, except for budgetary discussions with respect for people who work, undertake and save." This can be seen on page 46 of your coalition agreement. However, nothing is less true. Those who work, undertake, save, pay more taxes today. This government is basically continuing what it has done over the past year. There will be EUR 1.5 billion of new taxes and tax increases, whether hidden or not. Before your budget agreement, Mr Wouter Vermeersch had already listed this: the securities tax, which also affects the small saver and has to pay EUR 430 million, sneaking tax increases by suspending the indexation of a number of deductible amounts, higher fines, the removal of some VAT exemptions. Or, for example, take from your table that we received yesterday the increased VAT and excise duties on tobacco products. In addition to a new category for new non-traditional tobacco products, which is expected to generate an additional EUR 120 million each year, the increased VAT and excise duties on tobacco products should amount to 308 million in 2022, 360 million in 2023 and even 480 million in 2024. Let me find that curious, ladies and gentlemen, because the government said that this increase was introduced for health reasons, because of the deterrent effect. However, if that measure is indeed successful and will discourage smoking, then I suppose it will pay less and less from year to year. Apparently, Vivaldi doesn't believe her own principles and she already assumes that her detachment measures have a reverse effect. Colleagues, the hardworking Fleming will be able to pay for the towering energy bill. Contrary to what has already been said and claimed here today, nothing is being done to make the energy bill affordable for everyone. There is the one-off allowance of 80 euros on top of the social rate, but that's a big deal compared to the extra revenue that the government now collects through taxes on energy bills. Once 80 euros does not help if one sees structural, monthly advance invoices doubled to amounts such as 180 euros. Moreover, once a check is of course not a fundamental solution, but a counter-symbol. Like the extension or extension of the social tariff. If a million families in this country have to use a social rate to pay the energy bill, then there is something very wrong with that bill itself. One third of the gas bill and even two thirds of the electricity bill are taxes and taxes of all kinds that have nothing to do with the energy cost. And yes, one of those many taxes on the energy bill will now be reformed into an excise duty, in order to cope with price fluctuations. This would give families without a social rate EUR 30 per year. But to tweet like Joachim Coens to make the energy bill affordable? While it's already up 714 euros? Make it payable at 30 euros a year? 2.5 euros a month? That's assaulting the truth. I know that lying is not a parliamentary language, but this goes against the eighth commandment. The energy bill itself needs to be addressed, starting with the VAT reduction to 6% promised by several majority parties. Except for a mistake, I think Vooruit would have made that a breaking point. I wonder how Conner will explain that to cashier Debora. In addition, I wonder how he will explain to Debora that the tax advantage for a second home is maintained. I wouldn't like to be in his shoes, even in his 600-euro sneakers. After paying his energy bill and taxes, anyone who manages to save some money to go on vacation or city trip can soon pay an extra fee for that thanks to purple-green. All extra taxes under the guise of 'green policy', according to the greenest energy policy ever. That's what I read on social media. While France is fully committed to nuclear power and green hydrogen, this government is going to emit massive CO2 by building gas plants. The only thing green in this energy policy is the face of the people when they see their energy bill. For 22 years the Open Vld has been in the government and for 22 years the party has been saying that the hardworking Fleming must be able to earn more and pay less tax, but for 22 years the Fleming has had to give up more. The government then states that it is taking measures that also benefit the middle class and is showing off the fact that a working couple will pay EUR 150 less tax. Couples who would already think about what they can do with that amount, I recommend paying a small part of their increased energy bill. Single workers will be able to count on a tax reduction of 50 euros. 50 euros, that's 4 euros a month. I do not know if the excellencies are aware of this, but there is not yet a small pack of fries with mayonnaise for that. At the same time, fuel prices are rising and energy bills are exploding. Don't get me wrong. I think the removal of the special contribution to social security is a good measure. It was introduced as a temporary measure in 1994, if I am not mistaken. This temporary measure will now be extinguished after 27 years. I read that this will take 6 or 7 years. Perhaps today we can find out what the time limit for this extinction will be? What I find remarkable is that when Dehaene introduced that contribution, she should not be called a tax. But now that it's being abolished, it's called a tax relief. That's the trick with the pigeon. How can the reduction on something that wasn't tax now be a tax relief? It's not the only good measure. I'm sure there's still some. For example, I think that the higher tax deduction for childcare is also very good. Very modest, from 13 euros to 14 euros, but positive. But the essence of today, ladies and gentlemen, as other colleagues have already tried to make you diets, is that all these small steps in the right direction that we want to take today are not fundamental reforms. They do not outweigh the tax increases we are being beaten up with. The migration bill, the invoice of the European Union, the billions of transfers and the political system itself are not affected. Instead, we get a huge tax increase from purple-green. And then there is a great deal of hope for the great package of measures on work. The plans to re-integrate long-term sick people alone call Minister Van Quickenborne historic. In itself, that is not abnormal. He announces things with that term every day. Just now, Professor Vandenbroucke has already shown that the sanctions in this area are not at all so historic. Those plans are indeed not historic, but it certainly makes sense to think about reintegration with the sick after ten weeks, or even sooner. But a form alone will have little effect. A sanction of 2.5% of the benefit may not be applied either. It is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, that the employers with more than 50 employees in employment are again endorsed by this government. As a reward for their efforts to put so many people to work, they will be punished with a sanction of 2.5 % on the pay mass during a quarter if their company has excessively long-term sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u27	Mrs Pas, I would like to ask you about the long-term illness. You claim that the Flemish interest defends the working Fleming. Maybe you don't know, but a lot of working Flemish people are tired, have broken backs and broken knees. As a general practitioner, I see this in practice every day. It is said here that the number of long-term ill people should be reduced and that the labour market should be further flexible. I wonder what the effect of this will be in my consultation room on extra burnouts, more people who are exhausted and come to tell me they're out. Apparently, what the government is doing doesn't go far enough for the Flemish interest. Those sanctions, as you said yesterday in Villa Politica, are not enough. Also people over 55 years of age: everyone has to get back to work. In your press release and today too, you are defending the employers. Apparently, they shouldn't be addressed. For you, apparently, all the people who get a sickness benefit are fraudsters. Is that the image you have of the people? Can you make it clear what the working Fleming, who is today devastated by working and who is effectively placed on the sickhouse, can expect from the Flemish Interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u28	Mrs Merckx, my daughter is in sixth grade and regularly gets "understandable reading." For you, these tests could also be useful in reading our press releases. I suspect you haven't read them in full or that understanding reading hasn't been your strongest profession in school. We don't say anywhere that all the long-term sick are profiteers. Of course not. If there's a bunch of profiteers in there, why would you object to getting them out? You may interrupt me, of course, but I prefer to shoot my arrows at the government instead of the other opposition parties. Much has already been said today about the energy bill. For example, I could ask you why you are voting away our request for urgency for our bill to reduce VAT to 6%, while you yourself, a few months later, are asking for urgency for an identical proposal and the Flemish interest does support that urgency. Let me make my point that this series of individual measures will not achieve what we are told will be achieved. This government pretends to have a large historical package of measures in place, while it itself is well aware - but this does not fit in with the show it is putting on - that this does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u29	As far as VAT is concerned, you have already given the answer. With the PVDA we have been campaigning for months. We have already stressed enough here this morning that we are in favour of a reduction in VAT and that we are holding the government parties responsible for the hunt for the long-term sick who have now opened up. You have also been able to see how the debate with the government parties has been held here for the last half hour. I read your press release very well. There's a very clear line in that. Voka, the Flemish employers' organisation, has a goal, especially to get the long-term sick to work in poorly paid jobs and with more flexibility. In the Flemish Interest you will find a partner, just like in the N-VA. You'll confirm that today. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u30	In addition to reading the test, you would also better understand the test listening once again. Mrs Merckx, you like to make a contrast between the interests of the employers and those of the workers, but believe me, you sometimes look for them where they are not. There are many things that benefit employers and employees together. In particular, continue your polarisation instead of proposing solutions that are good for both. How many workers are not asking for flexibility in the labour market? These are all measures that even have to pass beyond the social partners. We'll see what comes of that at all. I wonder, above all, what is so historic about these isolated measures that are being proposed today? The result of the large package of employment measures proposed by the majority is budgeted by the government itself at 13,500 additional workers. At first there were 5,000 extra jobs, then 10,000 extra jobs and at the end, to make the table work, it was 13,500 extra jobs. In comparison with the measure of increased degressivity in unemployment, 12 500 additional workers were expected at the time. Is the expectation of this historic package not very modest? The 200,000 jobs Verhofstadt promised are from a long time ago, but the 13,500 jobs of this government, some twenty per city or city, I do not think are so historic and not so ambitious. As always, many of the loose measures decided by the government still have to pass through the social partners. So they have not yet been finally decided at all and if they get through the social dialogue, it will probably take some time for them to come to fruition. That is why I am concerned about the objective you have set yourself in your coalition agreement. The Vivaldi government promised to increase employment to 80% in 2024. That is the point I want to make, namely that with this series of individual measures you will certainly not get there. In Flanders it is feasible, but in Wallonia and Brussels we are farther away. In this country everything is Community, also activity, and one measure for the various Flemish and Walloon labour markets is unfortunately a measure for nothing. I am not saying that there are no good intentions, that there are no small steps in the right direction. Our good Walloon friends have also started many rescue plans in the past. I snorted them up for you. In 1997 there was the Déclaration de politicique regionale complémentaire, in 1999 the Contrat d'avenir pour la Wallonie, in 2002 the Contrat d'avenir activisé, in 2004 the Contrat révisé, in 2005 the Marshall Plan, in 2009 the green Marshall Plan, in 2012 the Marshall Plan 2022 and now the new plan with the beautiful French name Get Up Wallonia! For me, that sounds more like the new dance project of El Kaouakibi, but the point is that despite all the good intentions of all those rescue plans and of the many measures proposed today by the federal government, it will never succeed without real accountability. Thorough reforms are needed, such as a division of social security, for full powers in that labour market, so that policies can at least be adapted to local, social and economic realities. The labour market requires a tailor-made policy. Flanders and Wallonia need their own labour market policies. I am also sorry that I do not hear anyone today arguing for this power to be transferred entirely to the Länder, along with the proceeds of that policy. Mr Prime Minister, you told my group last year in this hemisphere that exactly what is not asked or said is very significant. You did that with a serious, perhaps grumpy look and a lot of pathos, because you had to pretend to mean it. That was one of those rare moments when you received applause from all the majority banks. That was a loud applause from your entire majority. Well, what you did not say yesterday in your government statement is indeed very significant. There was no mention of the major pension reform. That is surprising, because Minister Lalieux can be assisted in your purple-green team by knowledge, expertise and expertise from no less than three former Pension Ministers, especially yourself, Professor Vandenbroucke and Minister Van Quickenborne. However, it seems that we should not expect too much from the pension reform. It is also very significant that you did not mention the Community in your government statement. It was like a declaration of government by the N-VA government under Charles Michel. Nor am I surprised that you remain silent about this, as there is absolutely no consensus within the purple-green government on where the institutional should go. The main aim of the coalition agreement is therefore to buy time and transfer the hot potato to another legislature. The so-called dialogue platform, which comes out of the starting blocks with much delay, is the most visible expression of this. At institutional level, however, the government agreement contained a dozen or so concrete points to be achieved: the homogenisation of health care, the asymmetric governance tailored to the Länder and a greater representation of the Länder in federal administrative and management bodies. Those were the main ones. But none of these three important points have been implemented in the past year, despite repeated pressure from myself to the relevant ministers. Nothing has yet been done about the homogenisation of health care. For the asymmetric governance, the state participation in the federal institutions was reportedly an inventory of what would be desirable according to purple-green, but on paper we haven't seen anything of it, let alone that a decision would have been taken or that it would have already been implemented. Also the ten remaining detail points were no longer heard. The only concrete implementation consists of an informal agreement to declare four articles of the Constitution to be subject to revision at the end of the legislative term in order to allow for a state reform after 2024. PS president Mr Magnette gave Mr Devos' opening lecture at Ghent University. At that time he made it very clear that there will be no major state reform in 2024 as far as he is concerned. I therefore wish the N-VA a great deal of courage with their freedom to do so with that PS. What the N-VA failed with more than 30% and without PS in 2014 will undoubtedly succeed with the proposed 25% and with the PS in 2024. In that opening lecture of Professor Devos, Mr Magnette stated that Belgium works, with the sawed-off slogan of the team of 11 million. However, we all know what he means: Belgium works for Wallonia. The transfers continue to rise. Especially with this government, that extorted Fleming continues to take the fall for that. Prime Minister, unlike many of your predecessors, your State of the Union does not even look back on the achievements of your government in the past year. I fully understand that. It's hard to look back at that. For example, a lot has been said and done about the pandemic law over the past year. That's not exactly something to be proud of. By the way, the pandemic law did not enter into force until 4 October last week. The Corona approach of the Vivaldi government was so good that no parliamentary committee of inquiry dared to evaluate it. You rightly mentioned psychological well-being in your government statement, but we still have to see the first of the great work stress exercise that Mr Dermagne promised a year ago. I really hope this time it's not just announcements. The asymmetrical exercise of labour market powers by the Länder is in black and white in your coalition agreement. I've questioned Minister Dermagne on several occasions. However, nothing came of it in the house, unless you see the opposite direction that is ahead today, especially more money for those who are not doing well, as an interpretation of that point. We have not yet seen anything about Dermagne's promised initiatives on lifelong learning, gender discrimination in wages, tackling fraud and international postings. In the meantime, perhaps Minister Vandenbroucke can tell us where the response mechanism on medical quotas promised in the government agreement remains, where health care reforms remain, or when the minimum disability benefit will be implemented from the first month onwards or the promised more balanced regional distribution of contribution fraud? We are waiting for that too. I also wonder where Minister Clarinval stands with his proposal to ensure the financial and social sustainability of pension systems by 1 September 2021 or with the assessment of the cumulative scheme of the survivor's pension with occupational income. These are all things we haven't seen yet. We have not yet seen an official text of the federal poverty reduction plan. It would be the most important tool to meet the challenges. A number of social minimums were increased, but no measures were envisaged to remedy poverty. More people are pushed towards energy poverty. Without a coordinated approach, poverty will certainly not succeed. That's not gonna work with handing out alms. Child poverty was also proposed as a priority issue. However, no action has yet been taken in this area either. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, the government is continuing to import poverty. Prime Minister, you were very brief in your declaration of government, in particular two sentences, on asylum and migration. That's somewhat surprising. After all, the theme has returned from never being. After a coronadip, it is once again at the top of the political agenda, perhaps not your agenda but the agenda of those who pay the bill for it. In addition to the tax bill and the energy bill, the migration bill continues to increase. The outflow's lame. The influx is spiked. Although at home, any credible measure to slow down influx and increase outflow remains unsatisfied, it is always pointed towards Europe. You too, in your declaration of government, as an accomplished Pontius Pilate, restricted yourself to EU policy. Of course, these European external borders must be protected, but the fact that EU policies are more than inadequate does not relieve you of the obligation to do what can and must be done urgently at home and abroad. That such a thing can be perfect, the Danes, for example, have proven. Thanks to their rigorous approach, they saw their asylum applications drop to the lowest level in 20 years. The French have also recently shown that it can be done. They have issued visa sanctions against three North African countries. What's to stop your government from doing the same? Having ambition is the beginning of being unhappy. Nowhere can the ambition be found to halt the massive influx into this country. However, the figures are clear. Belgium remains a particularly attractive destination for migration from all over the world. This is particularly true, very striking, for unaccompanied minors, whether or not they are self-declared. For them, there is no more popular country in Europe than Belgium. While measures that could have had an effect on that influx have been further undermined, the already flawed return policy has been further undermined, with particular thanks to the green parties, who, as a parliamentary arm of the immigration lobby, continue to block even the smallest and most reasonable necessary tightening. The smugglers operating in this country are among the few who should not worry about their energy bill. They are experiencing high days at the moment. The recent statement by the French Minister for the Interior, Mr Gérald Darmanin, states that half of the migrants arriving in Northern France are coming through Belgium. The fact that this purple-green government could not be expected to change that asylum and migration policy was written in the stars, but after one year we know better, it just goes from evil to worse. Prime Minister, yesterday you spoke out against the muzzling of the press. It is quite cynical to hear that from a man who muzzled P-Magazine with regard to a foreign lady you know. Yesterday, in your declaration of government, you strongly advocated respect for fundamental rights in the United Kingdom, Hungary and Poland. I've missed political prisoners in Spain, who don't count in your eyes, who can go to hell. However, I would have preferred to hear from you a fervent plea for respect for fundamental rights in our own country. For more than half a year Vivaldi there was an unconstitutional confinement by curfew. In respecting rights and democracy, in defending freedom of expression, you and your government have more lessons to learn than to teach. You will not be surprised, Prime Minister, that this Vivaldi government does not gain the confidence of the Flemish Interest. Your so-called historic coalition agreement belongs at the dump of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u31	Madam President, I suspect that Mrs Pas was not yet at the end of her speech, but I am happy to let people speak. Mrs. Pas, I'm deeply disappointed. I have listened carefully to your party's speeches today. I have been watching your party for over 30 years, and what has changed at that time is that it suddenly has a social programme. I don't know how you got that idea. Suddenly you appear to be the voice of the people, the workers, the people who are struggling. You call yourself a champion in supervising the self-service culture that prevails. I thought I'd seen everything about the Flemish interest. But no, yesterday your chairman suddenly comes in and says, "You know what point I'm going to make, and I understand that it hurts that politicians have to make a lot of money because otherwise they'll be corrupted. I don't know if you've been following the media lately, but well-earning politicians turned out to be corrupt. That's the only difference. If you say something like that, I wonder if you really need 6,000 euros a month to avoid getting corrupted. That is what you say to the voters. At the same time, you take money from those same people, because you agree to the wage freeze. That is the reality! You agree to the wage freeze, and now you're crying that people are poor. You voted in favour of the law of '96. Drop those masks and show what you really stand for: for Voka and not for the workman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u32	(...) I do not know if you have heard in the video what my chairman literally said during the debate. I hope you are not basing yourself on the title of a newspaper article, but on what my chairman said in that debate. During the debate, my chairman said that we are in favour of halving the party figures. In fact, we tabled this proposal here and your party voted against the urgency. He proposed reducing MEPs' wages and halving the number of Members of Parliament. In our view, it is a good thing that a Member of Parliament earns less but earns less does not guarantee better politicians. He literally said that. You're building a whole story of bribes and corruption. You're talking about masks that lose weight. If one still fake news ospoort, all the alarm bells should go off now. When you talk about masks that lose weight, I wonder why you are always voting against all the proposals that we are dealing with. If we put forward a proposal to make all members' remuneration public, you will vote for it. Our proposal for the halving of the amounts will be rejected. You always say that you want to deal with the rich, but even if we table amendments to change the size of the royal family, you do not support them. The pot blames the kettle. We have always been a Social People's Party, we are and will always be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u33	The party that masters fake news, comes here to teach me fake news. At first my colleague could not read in comprehension, now we cannot understand. It is strange that all these journalists have suddenly misunderstood. If we vote against your legislative proposals, it is because we are improving your legislative proposals. That and the fact that we are really on the ground is the difference. I give you a good tip and I hope you will pass it on to your chairman: we are working on an employee's wage every month. We also know what impact it will have to pay the bills every month. This is what you should do: once you really come among the people, once you really get the pickets. Why don't you go talk to the unions for real, but you can't do that. And that's the only difference between us and Flemish Interest. Drop your masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u34	Colleague, I would like to hear, but please do me a favour: go to Twitter now and hear what my chairman says in the video of the LVSV debate: firstly, less pay for Members of Parliament, secondly, a half cut in the number of Members of Parliament and, thirdly, a half cut in the contributions to the parties. If MEPs earn less, that is not a guarantee of better politicians, that is literally his words. In fact, the title of the newspaper article on which you base yourself has already been changed. The film has already been watched and heard what my chairman really said. The same message was also voiced at an LVSV debate by Peter De Roover on the day before, but it was not taken out in the media and not distorted. So if you call, colleague, to drop the masks, think about your voting behavior here. If we propose to increase the taxable minimum to the living wage, which really makes a net difference to the gross wage of the workers, then you will vote against the urgency. If we call in a bill for the highest pensions to be cut, you will vote it off. You say that you will vote them away and then improve them with new proposals, but I have not yet seen these new proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u35	Mrs Pas, I suggest that you look at the legislative proposals that we are putting forward over and over again. It's clear what you stand for. You want to take the workman even harder, while proposing to tackle major corruption, always voting against it. When it comes to tackling big money, corruption scandals, Pandora Papers, both in the European Parliament and here, your party always votes against. Those opponents in the European Parliament are your party mates, or is that fake news as well? Your party votes against, over and over again. The reason is that these great abilities are your constituents, no more or no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u36	Mrs. Pas, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u37	Madam President, I will conclude with one last sentence. I hope that the honourable Member is right, because if these great powers are also our electorate, then we, as a social party, will achieve an absolute majority in the next elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u38	Madam Chair, I may return to the government statement. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, covid forced us to meet in the European Parliament to set up the government. We didn't know yet, but we were on the eve of a second wave that would prolong this crisis, here and elsewhere, for many months. Your government's life has thus been marked by the daily management of a virus that has not left us and has not left you any respite, until the healthy arrival of vaccines. Little by little, life was able to resume its course until the disastrous floods of July, which affected a large part of the country and caused too many victims. The terrible images remain in our memories, but in these moments of desolation we can remember the beautiful solidarity shown by our citizens from both the North and the South. Solidarity does not stop at a linguistic border. Even today, volunteers are working in cities and villages in the province of Liège. The wounds are still blissful and, if not enough, a new crisis, energetic that one, has come to hit us with full force. In recent months, however, we have seen the resilience, inventiveness and audacity shown by society, which has raised mountains. How many businesses are transformed? How many self-employed have adapted their services? How many activities have evolved to respond to an exceptional situation? The numerous accompanying measures, aid for employment and direct support for the economy have of course enabled this adaptation to many companies. As you recalled yesterday, Prime Minister, nearly 35 billion euros, federal and regional, were released to protect, as far as possible, our families and businesses in order to withstand the shock of this crisis. But without this capacity for resilience, adaptation and inventiveness, without this solidarity, the shock would have been much more violent. As we know, the Belgian economic fabric is made up of 90% SMEs and independents who are the main driving force behind our business. They've been through this crisis all the time. Supporting them for our jobs has been the leitmotif since March 2020. You have worked tirelessly to propose measures and solutions to meet the expectations of these entrepreneurs, men and women who, every day, work, manage, innovate, take risks. Moreover, for the first time in many months, we see the end of the tunnel. Finally, we can look to the future and put in place the stimulus measures that our society, our economy need. Our citizens expect actions, decisions to accompany them and look to the future calmly. It is with this in mind that your government has reached agreement on the 2022 budget, which will be further strengthened by a series of necessary reforms and investments. Among the many priorities are the emphasis on employment and self-employment, investments in society, security, mobility, digital and sustainable development. The government is presenting a responsible budget and is doing better, with an additional effort than was provided for in the government agreement, to support new initiatives while ensuring that the deficit is eliminated. Reducing our debt and investing today means thinking about the generations of tomorrow. This effort will be made by limiting the use of taxation to the maximum extent possible. To this end, employment is firmly at the heart of this budget. More active people are better financing our social system as well as a reduction in allowances, a true virtuous circle of our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u39	Mr Piedboeuf, you have spoken of using taxation as little as possible. It must be noted that your speech has changed a little from last year when you said that there would be no new taxes. There is one thing that surprises me in the speech of the Liberal Party, including yours in the Finance Committee where you are a bit of a specialist when it comes to talking about tax cuts. In your home, it's a little bit of the ass that we hook the fishing rod to catch the voter. But when you look at the budget table, you see the opposite. First, there is the missed opportunity to reduce the VAT on energy from 21 % to 6 %. And if we look at the total budget effort, we see that 40% of these come from an increase in taxes. It's still amazing! Perhaps you will also talk about the reduction in the special social security contribution, which is a tax reduction. It is a reduction of EUR 225 million, according to the budget table which the government has kindly transmitted to us. But it is offset by tax increases of the order of €225 million as well. So you give 225 million on one side and you take them back on the other! How do you explain that? Finally, does the acronym MR not mean Rotaxing Movement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u40	Mr Van Hees, I suppose you forgot our vote on a tax on securities accounts? Maybe you're opposed to it? Do you object? Well, that's very good news! I'm really happy to hear that! So, we voted for a tax on securities accounts and, of course, incorporated into this budget the return on this tax on securities accounts. I guess you didn't escape that. On the other hand, I must admit that there is an increase in excise duties on tobacco. It is true, therefore, that when we have to make efforts and look for recipes, we try not to look for them. And then we took a little from tobacco excises, because we believe – and that has already been the case – that these excise duties on tobacco are likely to affect the majority of people whose income is to be protected. We therefore call for a comprehensive approach to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u41	Mr. Van Hees still wishes to react as well as Mr Vermeersch
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u42	I want to react, because Mr. Piedboeuf is asking me a question. Also, out of politeness, I am obliged to answer him. Indeed, you know that we have opposed this tax on securities accounts for a good and simple reason: this tax does not affect the great fortunes. And you know that and know our position on that. I am astonished at your astonishment! Why does this tax not affect the greatest fortunes (the Brother families, the Bertrand families you know....( )?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u43	I can quote them from you. I hear them so often!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u44	Because all these great fortunes - there are 30 billionaire families in Belgium - own their fortunes via nominal accounts and not via securities accounts. These are nominative shares. Therefore, those who should contribute the most to this effort are not covered by the security account tax. And who does it touch? The little fortunes, those that you normally should defend, but that, obviously, you do not defend. That's the answer to your question. Nevertheless, 40% of the budget effort comes from an increase in taxes. You say you lower the special social security contribution. However, this decrease is fully offset by other taxes levied elsewhere. So here's your tax record! In the next election, your fishing rod will work a little less well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u45	Mr Piedboeuf, rest assured, I will not torment you with all the new taxes. Of the variable effort, some three quarters, 733 million, consist of new taxes. You are the specialist on excise duties in committee. Not only do you live in the province of Luxembourg, not far from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and from France, but you note on the spot that excise duties have a huge impact on cross-border purchases. You have just mentioned excise duties on tobacco, which increase to more than EUR 1 billion per year. However, I would like to talk to you about another increase, and I am talking about excise duties on professional diesel. From now on, the government wants to bring in up to EUR 100 million for the budget by removing the reimbursement of excise duties on professional diesel. Of course, this abolition will not achieve the climate objectives. For professionals there is no alternative to diesel. Gasoline is not an alternative to trucks, electric trucks are non-existent or priceless and emission-free trucks are still in their infancy. This is not the case with passenger cars, where there is an electric alternative. As a liberal, I do not need to remind you that the transport sector today has to operate with very small margins. If we impose additional costs on this sector, they will be passed on, not only in the raw materials for businesses but also in the prices that consumers will have to pay in the shops. Inflation will then continue to increase. Many foreign companies come to our country with their trucks refueling, generating extra revenue for the treasury, which can be expected to have a negative effect. If excise duties are increased in Belgium, fewer foreigners will be refueled here, which will weaken the effect of the measure. Do you not think that it is half a measure that will affect transport companies and professionals in particular, which will have no effect on the climate and which is actually an illusion in the budget? There is yet another illusory sum of 100 million, whereas the measure could actually lead to less revenue in the budget. At least that is a plea that I have often heard you make in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u46	You're right about the plea. I am in favour of establishing a method of calculation that takes account of the excise duties of neighbouring countries. For we are well aware, for having lived with the previous government, that when revenue increases are planned, especially through excise duties, we are able to reduce those revenues. Fortunately, the volume means that we still have results. But I am in fact in favour – I say it every time when dealing with excise duties – of a permanent benchmark allowing price regulation in neighbouring countries. That's right. Compared to diesel excise duties, this policy is consistent with these other aspects, such as encouraging rail transport. Of course, this will impact carriers, but the whole vision of transport in the coming years is to reduce the use of this type of fuel. We have to start one day. And here, in the context of a fiscal year that requires revenue, this is an option that has been found. I concede that this is indeed the case. I am in favour of a permanent comparison and I hope that one day we will succeed. It is as with reduced VAT rates; I would like a global reflection on reduced VAT rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u47	I am not going to torment you too much with the whole list of a billion extra taxes because I know that it also hurts you as a real liberal. However, you are a specialist in excise duties on tobacco. My colleague and I have both expressed our concern about the realistic nature of the entry of these additional revenue in the budget. In particular, it amounts to 240 million accumulated for 2020 and 2021. Since the non-representative covid year was chosen as a basis for calculation, another EUR 68 million is added. That is a great deal, but I also see in the table 120 million for excise duties on tobacco, so to speak, to finance that tax shift. You can't count that double, can you? Is this an additional amount of 120 million on top of the 368 million, i.e. a total amount of 488 million? Is that a mistake?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u48	You won't have escaped that I'm not a minister. I wasn't around the government table. I didn't draw that picture. I therefore propose that you discuss this during the thematic moments to verify these elements. As it stands, it is an additional recipe. Having said that, I would like to recall that we have together, in a previous government, drawn up budgets with revenue forecasts, in particular with regard to the fight against tax fraud. Some colleagues will remember that. We have programmed recipes that we have not always achieved. It's a budget game. We try to realize these recipes and when we see changes in consumer behaviour, we do not always realize them. Therefore, there is a need for budgetary adjustments. It is economic and political life. We will do what we need to do, but I suggest that we go into more detail when we have the thematic discussions, particularly in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u49	Let the Secretary of State, who is here after all, answer the question. Then we're done with it. The President: This is certainly something for the thematic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u50	I'm going on. We plead for a comprehensive approach to tackle the trades that are in short supply. Is that not of interest to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u51	The government is here to hear all your thoughts. There will be a thematic debate later. Mr. Piedboeuf wishes to continue to speak. You were able to speak widely. Let's try to move on with the work! If only you would stop constantly reverting to the method! Do you have a question on the substance, Mr. Boukili?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u52	Madam President, I think that ministers are not just here to figure things out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u53	We are in the general debate, Mr Boukili! It's starting to do good! If the ministers are here, it's because you wanted it. The Prime Minister can answer all questions. Ministers are here to hear what is happening. We held a general debate. It's been going on since 10:00 this morning and we've heard four groups! I do not know if you want to exhaust everyone but for the quality of the debate, it is time to move forward! I give the floor to Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u54	Employment is firmly at the heart of this budget. More active people are better financing our social system and a reduction in allowances. It is a virtuous circle for our economy. We are calling for a comprehensive approach to address the trades that are in short supply, representing around 140 to 170,000 jobs. In order to achieve the ambitious target of the employment rate of 80% by 2030, the measures taken (strengthening training, challenges of the regional premium, support for worker mobility) are steps in the right direction. In this respect, maintaining the zero contribution measure is a key element in job creation. Measures are provided for accompanying persons with disabilities or long-term illnesses towards a return to work. We have a target of 7,000 workers by 2022, which seems reasonable to me. I know long-term patients who need an accompaniment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u55	You're talking about the zero contribution measure for the first job. It was a lifetime, non-modifiable commitment of the Michel government. There is a planned savings of 47 million from 2022. We do not necessarily maintain the system as it exists: there will be an impact for companies, the self-employed or the workers. You are talking about retention, but I would like you to clarify the impact for employers and workers as a result of this economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u56	Mrs. Fonck, it's pretty clear. In all the systems that are put in place, there are sometimes abuses. In this system, there are also abuses that have been detected and that we will correct. But, in general, the principle of zero contribution is maintained and what is not working well will be corrected. Hence the collection of revenue or in any case less expenditure. As far as the accompaniment of persons with disabilities or long-term illnesses is concerned, as I mentioned, the reconciliation between private and professional life remains a priority for us and, in this context, we are looking forward to the realisation of the possibility of working time arrangements via the four-day week. Flexibility is not a big word. It was necessary to be able to respond to the demands of many people who wanted to be able to better adapt their working time. The health crisis has shown that modern work in all its complexity requires much more flexibility to promote well-being and to strengthen the balance between private and professional life. In the same vein, the maternity leave allowance for self-employed workers will be increased by more than 40% to be aligned with that of employees. It will increase from 514 to 727 euros for part-time leave and from 257 to 368 euros for part-time leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u57	Mr Piedboeuf, with regard to these sick workers whom you and your majority want to sanction, I refer to the budget table and I note that the amount compared to what you planned last year for this hunt for sick workers is multiplied by 2.4. So you're going to step up the hunt for sick workers again. On the other hand, the projections on the fight against major tax fraud are not at all increased. And, when we hear your party president, finally, in those Pandora Papers, they're not really fraudsters. I therefore have a question. Is it, in your opinion, more serious to be a sick worker than to be a great fraudster who uses the seven main tax havens mentioned in the Pandora Papers - which this government refuses to put on the Belgian list of tax havens? Worse, the Finance Minister, together with his European counterparts, has even removed tax havens from the European list. Do you think it's worse to be a sick worker than being a big tax fraudster? Sometimes you get that impression when you hear the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u58	I'm sorry I still have to answer Mr. Van Hees on this subject because it comes back to the Finance Committee about every 15 days. It goes without saying that we do not have any kind of leniency for tax fraudsters, nor for those who set up systems. There has already been a whole series of efforts. We must continue and be more effective, of course; but we have no kind of tolerance in this regard. It's money that must benefit everyone, and everyone loses it. As far as long-term sick workers are concerned, there are 500,000 people. I don't know if you're in real life, but I'm in. When I run my affairs or a commune, I see long-term patients who would like to return to work and who are unable to do so for all kinds of reasons. Sometimes, in my personal capacity, I manage to put them back in the circuit. Sometimes I can't. What is planned here is an accompaniment to help long-term patients get back to work because they want to. The projections of the number of workers being handed back to work, i.e. 7,000 out of 500,000, do not correspond to a hunt for long-term patients. It's an effort to try to reintegrate people. But it's social policy, Mr Van Hees. We do social policy in reality, not in slogans or with signs that are branded at all ends of the way! I'm going back to my speech. Similarly, the deductibility of childcare costs will be further increased, in one year, from EUR 11.50 to EUR 14 per day, in order to facilitate the lives of parents in a context of return to work. As I said in my introduction, rising energy prices are a major and legitimate concern for many families. It is necessary to be able to respond to this and, in addition to ad hoc support, to quickly relieve the household budget with special attention for low incomes, as has been mentioned all day long. We wanted to put in place the mechanism of the reverse ratchet, which will allow us to respond in the long term to cyclical fluctuations. In order also to keep control over the energy bill, we must ensure that the energy mix, which is contained in the government agreement, does not lead to an increase in the bill. In the same vein, wage increases will take place in 2022, as well as an increase in average incomes, thanks to an envelope of EUR 300 million. For us it is essential to strengthen the purchasing power and especially that of those who work. The middle class should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u59	Mr. Piedboeuf, Mr. De Roover asked for the floor, then Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u60	Madam President, I will stick to the rules and only ask questions to Mr Piedboeuf. After all, we are in the general discussion of the budget, the Prime Minister's round, and not in the thematic discussion. Mr Piedboeuf, you are a Member of Parliament, you like a good debate. Firstly, do you agree with me that the quality of the debate would have been less if Ministers Gilkinet, Van der Straeten, Vandenbroucke or Van Peteghem had not been given the floor during the afternoon? Secondly, we see in the tables that the revenue for VAT and excise duties on tobacco amounts to EUR 240 million plus EUR 68 million one-off income. There are also EUR 120 million of excise duties on tobacco under the new structural policy. Do you think the Prime Minister has an answer to that, Mr Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u61	Mr Piedboeuf, you say that we must not forget the middle class. That's an issue for me! You're talking middle class. I'm talking about workers. The majority of the population consists of workers. But no matter what word is used! In this case, it is clear that, in order to cope with the dramatic rise in energy prices, the government has focused on those who benefit from the social tariff, which is a good thing for these people. But they represent only 20 per cent of the population. The question is what is being done for the 80% who, for you, represent the middle class and who, for me, are mainly workers. What is planned is this ridiculous measure which amounts to 30 euros and which will only be applicable in 2022. This is much less than if we had reduced the VAT on energy. That would have been 320 euros per person, and that would have been immediately. Are you no longer defending the middle class? Why is there nothing or virtually nothing planned for the 80 per cent of the population who are so seriously affected by this increase in energy prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u62	Mr De Roover, I am always prepared to clarify, even if it is in some kind of tri-band game. As you know, increasing excise duties, for example on tobacco, is something the previous government has done. I think Mr Van Overtveldt has increased excise duties by more than 720 million. The 240 million was registered, which was a decision taken earlier in this House. A number of decisions of this budgetary exercise have been taken much earlier in order to provide sufficient clarity. The 68 million are more revenue. We saw, on the basis of the rates of excise duty, that more than 240 million came in, so we registered it as one-off income because we do not know whether it will continue to be. The 120 million is additional. This amounts to an increase of about 25 cents per package, which still makes a pack of cigarettes much cheaper than in the Netherlands or France. That seems to me to be justified in order to avoid too many border purchases coming in the other direction. As with the tax shift under the Michael administration, this is used to do a tax shift that will reduce the burden of the middle class. You say that this government is not doing anything for the middle class, but I absolutely disagree with that. The reform in the special social security contribution we are doing together with Minister Van Peteghem goes directly to that working group. This goes directly to the employees and the self-employed. Why is that such an important reform? The main disadvantage of this special contribution to social security was that the people who are making progress, who are promoting or taking up a new job, sometimes earning a few hundred euros more, were the most disadvantaged. This is part of the policy. There is an increase in excise duties on something that is unhealthy. I think you agree that smoking should actually be discouraged. The revenue from this increase goes to people who work and, above all, to people who are moving forward. This is good for that group and also for our social security, because people who work make our social security stronger. This is a policy chosen and supported by this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u63	I agree with the Prime Minister. I would just like to say that child care interventions also concern the middle class, Mr Van Hees. The tax reform we are considering is aimed precisely at the middle class. We have to observe the statistics. So far, everything that has been done, including the tax shift, has mostly benefited low incomes, although this may not be enough. When you look at the curves, you see that this slice has benefited from the tax shift. Now we want to work on the section that is a little above: the middle classes. They're necessarily workers, and you don't have a monopoly on them. We also help the workers and we also work with them. We must not attempt to categorize. As for the price of electricity, I've been hearing a series of donkeys since this morning. Do you know what the federal share of the electricity bill is? This is 7%. When we announce a series of measures to be taken, we talk about 7% of the bill! With regard to VAT, which has already been discussed very often, on the one hand – I know that you do not like the argument – it causes an index jump. You know that and you've denounced it in the past. On the other hand, when VAT was reduced, there was an increase in consumption. Compared to the households most in need, it is precisely necessary to work on consumption and insulation. We must help, together with the Regions, to improve housing. This is more interesting than encouraging continued consumption when, in any case, we are part of important challenges (see the current energy debate). The federal government is not responsible for the increase in the price of electricity, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister. At first, it was really a question of clarification, because the tables in this respect might give rise to misunderstandings. Thank you for your answer. We must not wait until 5 a.m. tomorrow before Mrs De Bleeker gives the answer. When you say it's a tax shift for the benefit of the middle class, I hope she won't send you a ticket for New Year's Eve to thank you, because then those pennies are gone. As you know, this special social security contribution measure is being phased in and the middle class will not see it in the first few years. You say I agree that smoking is unhealthy. That's absolutely true. I quit a long time ago, and I can recommend it to anyone. You hope that this measure discourages people from smoking, but you do have a budget problem. Perhaps you should take a measure that says on cigarette packets: smoking is good for the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u65	I didn't think I'd intervene anymore, but unfortunately Mr. Piedboeuf is giving me counter-truths forcing me to answer him. First of all with regard to wage indexation, if your reasoning were to be put forward a little further, we should call for a general price increase of up to 200%. So we'd benefit by seeing our wages increase. This obviously makes no sense because, in time, a long time can pass while VAT is immediately taken advantage of. VAT has the advantage of taking advantage of low incomes immediately since a low income has an energy consumption which is much more important in proportion to the household basket for the calculation of the index. So your reasoning doesn't hold. Your other argument, which I think is even weaker, is that because VAT is at 6%, consumers will turn on their heaters, turn on all the lamps and change their behaviour. That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u66	No, that's not what I'm saying! That is what we have seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u67	You want a number? I'll give you one. The Plan Office calculated that a 21-6% reduction in electricity VAT would increase electricity consumption by 0.04% after one year, by 0.4% after two years and by 0.8% after six years. The difference is marginal. In addition, these figures take into account the increase in consumption of households which are forced to deprive themselves of energy while they may breathe a little by increasing consumption too low compared to real needs. That's the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u68	The Prime Minister was just talking about a tax shift. I thought that a tax shift would mean shifting the tax burden, while the overall tax burden would not increase. In the 2022 budget, taxes increase net by EUR 1 billion. Then it is said that this will be compensated by some 200 million reductions in charges. That's people turning a wheel in front of their eyes. This is not a tax shift, but a tax lift that is relieved with a very limited adjustment of the special social security contributions, if we can put it that way. Secondly, the BBSZ is not abolished, but very limited. It amounts to 150 million in 2022 and another 50 million in 2023. That's only one sixth of the total cost of the BBSZ. If you are serious, why not completely abolish the 1.2 billion? Then you will indeed have a tax shift, a billion in tax relief compared to a billion in tax increase. Then do it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u69	I would also like to respond to what the Prime Minister said. We did the math. We understood that this was a summing up of the two lines in the budget table. We also made that sum for 2024. In that case, the revenue generated by excise duties on tobacco amounts to more than half a billion euros, in particular EUR 640 million. On the one hand, it concerns VAT and excise duties on tobacco for EUR 480 million and on the other hand the tax shift compensation of EUR 160 million. That's 640 million euros together. Prime Minister, you speak of 25 cents per pack of cigarettes. The excise duties on traditional tobacco products will thus be substantially increased from 2022 onwards. But we also read in the notes that new excise duties would be introduced on new tobacco products such as e-cigarettes and heated tobacco. Is that the last one right? Will there be new excise duties on e-cigarettes and heated tobacco? Could you also explain the budgetary technique to us? In the explanatory statement yesterday, the government said that the excise duty was aimed at a generation without tobacco. But explain that to me. Everyone has to stop smoking, but first all smokers together have to cough up more than half a billion euros in taxes. Should anyone who wants to quit smoking, rather than do so in the next legislature, from 2025? Please explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u70	Mr Piedboeuf, you have just read a passage linking our energy mix, the electricity mix, and purchasing power. Of course, that can go two ways. You can make sure, through the use of budgetary money, that an adjustment of the electricity mix has no impact on purchasing power. You can also ensure that the electricity mix does not change to the extent that it has an impact on purchasing power. In the past year, I have noticed that the MR is usually relatively clear in energy issues, but you have not taken over that feature from your chairman today, or from Mrs Marghem either. It is therefore not entirely clear to me what you meant. In communication from Mrs Marghem, I have just been able to read that she is concerned, because she believes that this country will crash into the wall if we drown under the gas from the gas plants, which are being imposed on us to replace the nuclear power plants. What exactly does she mean: is it drowning under the gas, or something else?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u71	Madam President, allow me to answer the punctual question about e-cigarettes. There is indeed a European directive that allows this. That is not allowed today, but we expect it in the course of next year or perhaps not until 2023. From then on, the intention is to use that directive to also subject e-cigarettes to increased excise duties. Actually, it is an anomaly, because the differences in the tax on cigarettes versus the tax on e-cigarettes are not related to the impact of both products on health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u72	When you want to increase revenue, there are different ways to do it. Either we raise the rate, or we increase the base. It is likely that there will be an enlargement of the base. In relation to Mr Wollants' question, the sentence I said was: "We must ensure that the energy mix does not lead to an increase in the bill." In the government agreement, that is one of the priorities. There is, of course, a need to guarantee supply, but there is also a desire to meet our CO2 obligations and to ensure that the bill does not increase. She's already up a lot, it's good already! I am not at all opposed to Marie-Christine Marghem. She is familiar with the file, she has opinions on the matter, and we know that this year, the deadline for an assessment of the situation is November. Thus, we will know whether the path that is being followed will achieve these three objectives. If we don't, we'll get back around the table. Some have already mentioned it, even at Ecolo. We will then decide what we will do. I am also in favour of innovation and creativity. I think that humanity has always managed, in all situations, through technical progress, research and new ways of working. We'll see if we can bet on that. There's a date, a deadline that's November. We'll do the diagnosis at that time. I am sure my colleague Marie-Christine Marghem will have an opinion on the subject. I'm going on. In support of our self-employed and SMEs, the 25% investment deduction will be strengthened to encourage the growth of small businesses. At our request, emphasis has been placed on investments in digital technology and so-called eco-positive investments. At the same time, the tax shelter scheme will be improved by raising the maximum investment thresholds allowed for businesses. We saw that during the crisis, it saved part of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u73	Before you go further, Mr Loones would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u74	Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to elaborate on Mr Wollants' question. What is here on the table is the question of trust. Can we trust the government? Above all, I ask myself: can we trust the MR, and what MR? Here, in your answer, you defend Mrs Marghem's position as well as that of your President, and that of the Government, in any case what is insinuated by Mrs Van der Straeten. We should still know, in a debate on trust, what message you are asking us to give our trust. Today, a whole series of tweets was published by your party president. These are very clear: it is against the exit of the nuclear defended by Tinne Van der Straeten. Can we trust the MR and be sure that the MR will maintain its position? Can we be certain that, for MR, there will be no exit from nuclear power? Out of respect for Parliament, we would like to receive an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u75	I still have five pages left. If I can continue and finish my speech, I'll tell you if we can trust the government. As far as the MR is concerned, I'll tell you that it's a reliable party. I am a Liberal, and I always live up to my commitments. I said that there is an appointment clause in November and that, given the commitments made to ensure sufficient production to be able to supply our businesses and households, and to avoid a further increase in the bill, in November, we will know what needs to be done. We will do what we have said and we will abide by the commitments made in the government declaration. If it's the thesis of some, it's them that we'll follow. If this is the thesis of others, it is these that we will follow since this is the government agreement. Therefore, you can trust us, and I thank you for giving me this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u76	Your answer is not yet fully clear to me. I do not want to put words in your mouth, but I think you said that your party is trustworthy and liberal, that you remain in the government because there are a number of posts and eventually you do fold. Is that the right reading? If we come to the point, Mr Bouchez, your chairman, can say what he wants, you will just remain in that government. Mrs. Van der Straeten, do you think the MR is reliable? I would like that answer from you in the thematic debate. Mr Piedboeuf, if my reading is correct and we already know that the MR is working, do you really think it is conducive to the credibility of politics and to the confidence that this government wants to build, that your President is holding such a discourse? Would it not be better to be clear and say that you have taken a loss, that you are going down your knees again by giving up the core exit? There will be. That would enhance credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u77	There is an expression in French – and you like French – that says: "There is no deafer than the one who wants to hear." I didn't tell you that! I didn't tell you that! In addition, I'm really going to recommend to my party president to run for the top federal list next time. In fact, last year, he was only mentioned, and today, at least the fourth time his name is mentioned. The advantage of a moving party president is that he actually moves. It's nice or not. This morning, we were talking about Paul Magnette. I think there are other party presidents we can talk about. The party presidents, when they are not in the Chamber, say and do what they want! [[??]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u78	Si cela n'a pas d'impact! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u79	We are debating and if his vision is to say, - because President Georges-Louis Boucher has publicly said, and on television in particular, including in Flanders - that there was an appointment clause in November, that this appointment clause will be held, that we will analyse it and that, depending on it and the conclusion, we will do what is necessary to ensure the three commitments of the government, namely the supply, the price and the fulfilment of obligations and commitments at CO2 level - I do not know how to say that otherwise - that is what we will do and we will do what we have said!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u80	If I understand correctly, Georges-Louis Boucher may be glad to be able to trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u81	Of course! Of course! Otherwise, I think I might not be a group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u82	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u83	I will tell you the advantage of joining a Liberal party: there is a real debate and we are not the fingers on the sewing of pants; I know others who are! In support of our independents and SMEs....
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u84	I have to say that your chairman, who does and does what he wants, has a different version of the coalition agreement than what I hear quoted by the Minister for Energy. You refer to three different aspects, CO2, cost and security of supply. However, the version of the coalition agreement which has been distributed to Members of Parliament - and which is repeatedly quoted by the Minister of Energy - states that only in the event of an unexpected security of supply problem would there be a choice for the possible extension of 2 GW of nuclear capacity. Perhaps, however, for some reason, I am the only Member of the 150 with the wrong version? Can you tell me what version you have? Are there three conditions or is it one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u85	I maintain that the commitments I have cited are in the government agreement. The traditional bridge law that was heavily sought during the crisis would be improved to better reflect reality. If employment remains our priority, its development cannot be achieved without substantial investment. The government therefore decided to invest beyond what had been foreseen in the recovery plan supported by Europe. One billion euros will be mobilised in three years. For us, it was important that these investments be concentrated on strategic projects such as digital development, security and sustainability, as well as administrative simplification. We need more efficiency for the state through simplification, but also innovation through artificial intelligence as a vector of growth. Climate change - we return to it - is an ongoing concern. We need to step up our action, take action at the Belgian and European levels with the Green Deal and international with the next International Conference. Our country is part of the leading peloton of those who have the ambition to adopt a strategy that aims to achieve the Paris Goals by 2050. New measures have been decided to strengthen the offshore capacity of the North Sea, to adapt the infrastructure of the transport networks to the energy transition, to use hydrogen, to green the fleet of vehicles of the public authorities and also to renovate the public buildings, notably via the Régie des Bâtiments and the Secretary of State Michel who will continue his work of renovation and transformation in order to improve the energy performance of the buildings that the Régie manages. Finally, which says climate says mobility. In this regard, we welcome the planned investment of EUR 250 million in rail with the objective of substantially improving freight transport, improving rail accessibility, increasing the supply of trains and finally continuing the modernisation of the Brussels-Luxembourg line, which had been properly started by the previous government. Security and justice, for several months, many incidents of violence against our police officers or relief services have made headlines. They are totally unacceptable. Zero tolerance shall apply to attacks. I am pleased to see that the government continues to do so. Mr Pivin has tabled a proposal to ensure that no act of violence against police officers remains without an effective criminal response. This proposal has recently been extended to firefighters and emergency and response officers. We want it to be debated quickly. In addition, our integrated police must be able to operate optimally, which means working with a full framework of 1,600 personnel to be hired. The fight against organised crime will also be intensified, but let us not forget that if this fight takes place on the ground, it also takes place online. The government has reminded us that we must be present on all fronts. Security today is also the fight against cybercrime. It is therefore essential that our services have the tools to fight equally against criminals who use the most sophisticated means. As a result of the floods, our government has decided to invest in additional personnel for Emergency Preparedness and to strengthen our crisis structures. We can only support this initiative and insist on the - it is fundamental - need to develop a risk culture in our country. We need to think about how best to prepare ourselves. We look forward to the results of the learning commission to be launched by the Minister of the Interior. The aim is to assess and learn from crisis management. In addition, the Government is working to improve the criminal chain: modernization of sexual offences through the new amendment of the Criminal Code - the amendment of the entire Criminal Code will follow with a comprehensive reform. This is a big project to conclude during this legislature, but we do not doubt the Minister of Justice's energy to do so. For the same purpose of curbing crime and preventing recidivism, the enforcement of sentences is paramount. As is well known, the speedy execution of a sentence after an offence often reduces the risk of recidivism. We are pleased that, in consultation with the Communities, sentences of less than three years will soon be carried out. In order to achieve this, 720 additional places are provided for in detention centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u86	Mr. Piedboeuf, I just listened to you. I wanted to let you finish the paragraph on security and justice. You mentioned the issue of floods, mentioning what was proposed by the Minister of the Interior at the end of the last joint meeting, namely to commission studies and make evaluations through public procurement. As you know, administrative procedures are what they are, it means that we will have the results of all this in several months. However, it seems, in any case, to the civil protection reform, that we have unfortunately demonstrated, in a very real way, that this reform was totally wrong, since it has reduced the number of staff and has not made it possible to have sufficient staff on the ground. It's a first thing. The second thing, and I am surprised that no one is referring to it in the debate, is the responsibility of the federal government. We said no, it's not us, it's the Region. I am really worried about why the evacuation orders made by the governor of the province of Liège - in this it was the deconcentrated organ, incarnation of the Minister of the Interior - were not passed on to the local authorities. They were by sending an email. No one was sure whether the mayors had all received it - some had it, others did not - or whether it was actually executed. I think this is an important responsibility. It is a little limited to say that, basically, we are going to be satisfied with studies and that we will see how this works, that it is not very serious and that we are doing the right thing. I have also heard interviews from members of your party who said that, in addition, the assistance to be given to the victims now is totally inadequate, in the form of a loan. I think we should not repeat what we have said on several occasions. I apologize, but it is really up to the regional authorities to say that we are going to grant a loan. Basically, the existing needs, they're still there now. I really insist. I'm coming, with others, from this province. We have to go there, realize what's still going on right now. And I heard members of the majority and members of your party, in particular, say exactly the same thing. I just wonder why you didn't fight, why you didn't put all the forces in the battle so that in the province of Liège, everyone would have a roof and be dry for the coming winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u87	Madam President, we have just talked about the floods and the Civil Protection. I would like to start by reviewing this reform, which has reduced the response capacity (810 fewer officers). Unfortunately, the consequences of this decline have been seen in a rather concrete and catastrophic manner during the dramatic events that our country has experienced. The reform also included the abolition of four out of six barracks. You're telling us that, following the floods, you're going to strengthen Civil Protection. I want to know how. How many more agents do you expect? Will you return to the previous level, recruiting 810 agents? Are you going to reopen the barracks that have been closed? If we had known this catastrophe on the Hainaut side where there is no barracks, how would that have happened? When you say you want to strengthen Civil Protection, how are you going to do it? What are the numbers? How many agents can you predict? Are we going to reopen the barracks? In addition, you are talking about the issue of security, respect and aggression against the police. What do you think of the latest attack on law enforcement regarding the abolition of NAPAP, which has made police officers and their union representatives furious. When you talk about the execution of sentences, have you discussed with the prison directors and their union representatives the disaster that awaits them? I talked to them about it. They are also furious about this measure because we have prisons already overcrowded. This will aggravate the situation in a catastrophic manner. Last week, I went to Mons prison and was shocked at the conditions of the facility. On-site people, staff and the director do not know how to deal with the situation as a result of this measure. You're talking about detention homes. There's really not enough for now. There's only one to my knowledge. We're talking about building other detention houses. When will they be ready? In addition, these detention centres will not be sufficient for the population who will arrive as a result of the short sentences. What solutions do you present to people on the ground when you vote for such a law, when the prison situation is already denounced by the European Union? We are ranked among the worst pupils at European level and we are putting in place a measure that will further aggravate the situation. How do you respond to the directors, to the union representatives who tell us that the situation is catastrophic? This measure makes it even more catastrophic!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u88	Madam President, I have a general question about the budgets for security. We see security come back several times in the State of the Union. When I look at the budgets on the subject, I have a first question at line 7. To my surprise, it says 'linear saving of government apparatus'. When I look at the 2020 budget, I notice that it said that we would no longer make linear savings. It says literally that the different colleges of Presidents or Administrators-General will submit a multi-annual proposal from 2022 to 2024 in accordance with the budgetary table, which has indeed been nicely adopted over the years. Why does it say "linear" here? After all, I did not think that we would make linear savings anymore? What proposals have come from the FOD? Is there an exception for the security departments? So far, we have always said that for very good reasons the security departments should save less than others. If safety is so important according to what is in the State of the Union, then I would like to know what percentage has been held back this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u89	With regard to civil protection, it had been reformed in its organization during the previous legislature. The vision at the time was to give civil protection its basic mission and to complement it by strengthening civil security. With regard to the number of barracks, we also had the debate in my province. It is clear that civil protection in France, for example, throughout France, consists of two barracks. Why? Not because they have a smaller territory than ours, but because the function of civil protection has been reduced to its fundamentals, on the understanding that it is the relief zone that must ensure the rest. But it is not enough to say that. This means, of course, that relief areas must be strengthened. Steps have already been taken to do so. I'm also a communal manager. The Walloon Region, for its part, encouraged the provinces to intervene in the relief areas. We, at the municipal level, as Mr Jambon said at the time, had reduced our intervention. Now, we're bringing it up to level and we're going to increase it even in the years to come. Indeed, we are concerned by this strengthening of the relief zones, so that everything can be linked to civil protection as reformed. On the other hand, the civil protection framework is not fulfilled. When I ask you what to do or what we're going to do, I'll answer that the framework must already be completed. In relation to the remarks made by the MR, my colleague Daniel Bacquelaine, who is the mayor of Chaudfontaine and who has known this live in his commune, also has a series of remarks to make. When we talk about the analysis of the Minister of the Interior, we have to do an analysis of what happened and how it worked. As far as I am concerned, the military chief of the province of Luxembourg wanted to send men in the morning. He had to wait 5 p.m. for permission from Brussels to send them. That's not right! We also realize that during the reform that was made – although I do not want to bring water to anyone's mill – we have failed in many areas in the structure of our country. With regard to financial aid, which should be direct aid and not a loan, we do not have the legal mechanism to do so. One of the subjects is precisely to put this mechanism in place so that it can function as in Germany. That is the reality of our country. We're talking about the number of ministers of health, it's a reality. There is certainly a difference between Flanders and Wallonia since there is one in the Federal Republic, one in Flanders and all the others are at home. Can we be satisfied with this reality? No! When we say we need to improve the functioning of the state, that's how it is. How is it that we do not have the means to intervene directly through financial aid to the victims? It's not normal. The situation needs to be remedied. Should there be more state or less state? We need to do better and to be able to do better, we need to analyse the situation. This analysis is carried out at the level of the Region by means of a commission of inquiry. Here, the joint committees will look at the subject and analyse what has not worked. We are obliged to do this analysis and to note that we have not been successful, just as at certain times of the covid crisis. That must be corrected. You have to be able to recognize your mistakes and try to correct them. With regard to the enforcement of sentences, if it was to be improved, it could not be done in the current situation. If the sentences are not carried out, it is because the prison structure does not allow it. There is a series of drifts that I have seen, even in the maintenance of buildings. Why did the government set aside amounts to improve the quality of buildings? Precisely because things were found to be wrong. Of course, the improvement of this kind of situation depends on an improvement of the reception buildings. When you say you have to create 720 places, you have to do it. I received the budget tables during the night and was not around the government table, so I cannot answer all the questions exactly. Perhaps the Prime Minister can come to my rescue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u90	The budgetary table contains a number of things that have already been decided. We did not start the budget a few weeks ago. We have often made decisions that apply before 2022. The decision on government savings was taken in the Council of Ministers on 9 July. It is about a linear saving of 1,11 % for all services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u91	Mrs Matz, with regard to the channel of communication of the Governor's Order, it is important to know what happened. If the communication did not succeed where it was supposed to be, we must examine what happened. My colleague, Daniel Bacquelaine, told me at some point: "But at last, this state does not work!" He told me the same day or the next day. These are things that must be seen and resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u92	Mr Piedboeuf, when you say that the situation has been deficient, you are satisfied with the answers given by saying that we will see this in several months, that we will evaluate, etc. The findings are made. And I really invite you to read this report sponsored by the Walloon Region. It is not just about Walloon skills. It concerns federal jurisdiction and this independent report highlights coordination, unity of command, the transmission of information, everything we have denounced since mid-August, when we took a little step backwards. Personally, I do not understand that you are saying that you are part of this government and that it is not functioning properly. "We will try to reform. We'll see when, etc." Why do you continue to say that this situation will be examined in committees together? We saw it well at the last meeting: objectively, there was no answer! Would it not be better now to move on to a more coercive tool? Because people on the spot, in order to move forward, need answers. They don't care about the legal formula in which the answers will appear, but what they want is answers. When there is mourning, - many are bereaved - there are thousands of them - we need to understand. They need to understand. What are we doing in this direction? Do they understand what happened? This is not just a problem of information, when you say to me, "Maybe the governor's orders have not gone back to the minister of the interior." It is not a question of transmission, the governor is the Minister of the Interior on his territory. And so, there is a responsibility in the head of federal authorities, obviously, because these evacuation orders have not been passed on and no one has ensured their proper execution. Shouldn't Parliament have another legal tool to get those answers, not for us politically, but to provide them to the people concerned on the ground and who are still waiting for those answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u93	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your answers. You gave the example of France when I told you about the number of barracks. But the framework of the barracks that we have is not filled. Why? Because our barracks are decomposed. People don't travel 200 km to the other side of the country. Therefore, the removal of barracks does not allow the frame to be filled. I thought you said that you were somewhat sorry for this reform. Do you think this reform was bad? The situation we are experiencing today proves that this reform did not meet the needs and reality. You gave the example of France and mentioned two barracks. In France, however, there are 32,000 agents, which is one agent per 2,000 inhabitants. In Belgium, there is one agent per 18,000 inhabitants. In doing so, if we want to make a comparison with France by mentioning the number of barracks, let's start by comparing the number of agents. Indeed, it is men who intervene. At this level, however, we are understaffed. And the removal of barracks is part of the problem. To return to the issue of prison overcrowding, you said, like the minister, that we were going to build. But I don't trust you in this. I'll explain why. I went to Mons prison. In one of the wings, there was a four-person cell, which represents 20% of the wing's capacity. Now, the ceiling of this cell has fallen two years ago. This cell has been unusable for two years, reducing wing capacity by 20%. Don't let me believe that we're going to build 15 detention houses in a year when we haven't been able to re-enact the ceiling of a cell in two years! It's incomprehensible! First of all, we need to take stock of the buildings today. And don't make it look like we're going to build new buildings in the blink of an eye!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u94	Mr Piedboeuf, I am pleased that if we ask you questions, we will receive answers from the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for the clarity you provided after Mr Ingels' question on the savings in the security departments. The saving target you have imposed is therefore heavier than the saving target previously imposed. It was 0.89 %, and it's rising to 1.11 %, I hear now. The police, Home Affairs and Defence departments are therefore being hit even harder. We see the same pattern for our services. The Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the P Committee and the I Committee are subject to a saving target, the Senate as well as the other beneficiaries in the table. In our closed meetings, they are always asking for more money, but they are being imposed on savings targets. Now, it is not quite clear to me whether I am leaving you, Prime Minister, or Mr Piedboeuf, to answer my question - or whether other groups are included in that saving target? I am thinking, for example, of the ministerial cabinets. If all these groups are set a saving target, I assume, perhaps with some naivety, that the Cabinets are also covered by that saving target? The royal house with Prince Laurent, Princess Astrid and the King is also entitled to dotation. Every year we spend more than 50 million euros on the royal family. I'm assuming that that family is also covered by the savings, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u95	Mrs Matz, I understand your insistence and I have no problem answering that I agree with you! You have to be crazy when you are a politician to say that everything has been well, when that has not been the case. I'm not crazy. I note that things have gone wrong and the mayors concerned, among whom I have many friends, can also tell me that some things have not worked well. When one is a political leader, it is normal to assume that it has not been well, to make the observation, to look for what has happened. You're referring to the Walloon report. I've read about it. Indeed, there are concerns, particularly about dams. Some of my friends call me to tell me that maybe we should think about this or that. These are observations to be made which are our responsibility, and I therefore agree with your statement. Mr Boukili, you have commented on civil protection and you want to know whether I am satisfied with the reform. But we can never be satisfied with a reform if it is not completed. Civil protection was to be accompanied by an articulation of the improvement of the rise of the relief zones. That's not reasonable. Compared to the number of agents, do you know how to compare the territory of France with that of Belgium? Frankly! Have you noticed the difference, the relief, etc.- Is that what you're saying? In Belgium, we are everywhere in less than two! I'm in a good position to see him. I come here regularly by car and I also go back in the car. The ability to travel in our country is a little bit easier than in France. And to the question of whether I am satisfied: no, until the reform is completed, we do not do everything that is necessary and the framework is not fulfilled. You say the frame isn't complete because people don't want to go to work. All right! Let's find some people who want to go to work! There are enough unemployed people in our country to fill the gaps. To Mr. Buysrogge's questions, I have no answer at all. I shall pass the floor to the Prime Minister. With regard to the royal endowment, it is a subject that comes back regularly, it is a gadget that we come out to try to show the population that we are spending unnecessarily. This is part of our state structure and of the fact that Belgium is a kingdom. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u96	Madam President, it was asked whether linear savings would also apply to Cabinets. Yeah, that's right, for 2022, 2023 and 2024. In fact, at the beginning of the legislature, we already made additional savings in relation to government appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u97	When you make a budget, you try to increase revenue without taxing and you try to cut spending. There are indeed instructions to reduce expenditure. Maggie De Block told me about the restructuring of the administration which she had implemented in part during the previous legislature. We need to be able to save money wherever possible. We know that our state, when compared to neighbouring states in Europe in particular, has a very high level of burden and expenditure. We have to make efforts. I think I answered the questions. Mr Boukili being, I have nothing else to add. With regard to external security and our diplomacy, I can only stress the coherence of our Minister Sophie Wilmès in a country like ours, which is so economically dependent on her exports. This coherence is absolutely necessary. Our diplomacy is fully part of an era of political confrontations – where the virtues of democracy are challenged by authoritarian regimes – and economic confrontations – where the globalization shared under the auspices of the WTO gives way to systemic rivalry and where state bankruptcies, truncated elections, tribalism and resource grabbing place people out of reach of development goals. Our diplomacy must find allies within the European Union within the framework of the Atlantic partnership, through the United Nations institutions, to counter these trends and to ensure that the December summit on democracy does not lead to further divisions, but to concrete solutions. And this, without ever naively believing that our allies have no agenda or self-interest. We must continue to help the Congolese people through our development cooperation and bring the European and United Nations agenda to bear on the political developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The security of certain areas and the approach to new electoral deadlines require our commitment. On defence, the government committed to prolonging the financial effort undertaken by the previous government, which had established a strategic vision at fifteen years and adopted a military programming law. The effort will be extended for staff, infrastructure and equipment. Two points seem essential to stress. Military personnel must be able to catch up with other security forces in the country. This is a strong measure to attract and retain military personnel in the army. The new investment package in equipment must be coupled with an approach towards our defence companies. The defence economy must emerge from academic concepts to be part of our country's recovery plan. Finally, I cannot conclude, like others of my colleagues and you yourself, Prime Minister, without mentioning the healthcare staff, the hero of the crisis, who worked day and night to deal with the greatest health crisis we have experienced. The crisis of the Covid-19 has demonstrated, more than ever, that we need sufficient health care staff and that this staff must be better valued. The budget agreement has not forgotten them, since it provides for a structural amount of EUR 1.2 billion: EUR 600 million for the upgrading of healthcare staff, EUR 400 million for the White Blouse Fund and EUR 200 million for mental health care. Important work remains to be done: the revision of the nomenclature, the reform of hospital financing and the operation of hospital networks and the control of the drug budget. Finally, I would like to point out that the success of the vaccination campaign is linked to scientific research. Belgium is one of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies. It is a major industrial sector that makes our reputation. In terms of employment, it alone employs 30,000 workers in our country. It is therefore essential to conclude a new pact to clarify the dimensions of innovation, accessibility but also of shortage and ethics, while making the sector responsible for the budgetary dimension so that patients can benefit as much as possible from the expertise held by this sector. The government has shown creativity and voluntarism against winds and tides. He has shown a will that reflects the state of mind that it is necessary to breathe into all the workings of our society. We have at home talent, imagination, creativity, innovation capabilities of global interest, not only in our memories but in today's reality. On a daily basis, we must make our society's state of mind positive and encourage work. We have young people who are involved, able to reverse the difficulties and meet the challenges. We need to build on youth to strengthen innovation and change. Let us be determined and optimistic! It is by standing up and facing you that you can move forward. You chose to be, Prime Minister. We will be at your side, and we will therefore vote, ladies and gentlemen, for confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u98	Madam President, I wanted to intervene because I think we have a problem. We all witnessed a beautiful piece of the theater by the N-VA group here yesterday. They then spoke with great indignation about the fact that the government had given a press conference on this agreement, even though the same thing happened in the past with the N-VA. Now I see that the N-VA is advertising this evening on a Twitter account because their group leader, Mr De Roover, is going to have the debate there, while we are still in the middle of the group leader debate here. We're still in the middle of the general discussion. I think that if you are a little consistent and want to remain a little credible on that point, you should ask your group leader to return to Parliament and cancel his debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u99	Madam President, it is a somewhat transparent game, but I would like to respond briefly. Today we have seen that the debate is only half and half here. We have seen for a number of days, weeks and even a whole year that this is a government that likes to just 'take the media', but rather not in Parliament. That is what we are doing, and we are going to take part in such a debate. However, our group is here and we are taking an enthusiastic part in the debate. Mrs Depraetere, do not be afraid, we will be passionate about your intervention, just as we will do about Mr Verherstraeten's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u100	If I understand you correctly, Mr Loones, it's like, "Do what I say, not what I do." I take note of this because, in terms of reliability, you have no lessons to teach anyone! The President: Mr Verherstraeten, you have the floor. No, Mr Anseuw, why should I give you the floor? You haven't been wearing a mouth mask for hours, you're not getting the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u101	The past year has been very moving. Fortunately, today's corona crisis is less acute than it was 12 months ago and economic and social life has recovered. That's important for our mental well-being. After all, we have learned that loneliness and social isolation leave deep scars on people. We didn't just suffer from the corona crisis. Our country, especially Wallonia, has also suffered under the flood, causing a great deal of human suffering and material damage. However, these crises have also taught us that there is a great deal of spontaneous solidarity in our country. We have seen wonderful examples of this, with the many people who cared for the vulnerable, the many volunteers in vaccination centres and the many volunteers from all over the country who went to help in the flooded areas in Wallonia. The government has also shown solidarity, with investments for the care staff, concessions for companies and employees who were temporarily unemployed, a federal loan and other support within our federal powers. Reconstruction in Wallonia will take a long time. If the federal government has to step up civil protection and military efforts in the coming winter months, you will receive the support of the CD&V Group. We must not leave these people in the cold. The government has done much more than crisis management; it has also carried out important reforms over the past year. I would like to sum up some of the reforms that are very dear to our group: the greening of commercial vehicles, the first reduction in the tax on childcare and for helping a sick family member and the generalisation of 6% VAT for demolition and reconstruction. It is good that the government has done a great deal of work in difficult circumstances. We must not allow this to be overshadowed by excessive profiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u102	Mr Verherstraeten, at the beginning of your speech you talk about solidarity. We also carry solidarity in our hearts at the PVDA. I would like to talk about international solidarity. Here the corona crisis is partly behind us but in the rest of the world that is not the case. The vaccine inequality is increasing. The question now is what position Belgium is taking in the debate and what position CD&V is taking as a party. Yesterday, the Prime Minister knocked himself on the chest in his speech and said that we are in the Champions League for the development and production of the vaccine. However, we are also at the top of those who block the solution of vaccination for everyone. Yesterday there was a demonstration at the same time at the Belgian Embassy in South Africa, which, alongside many other countries, calls for the patenting of the corona vaccine to be lifted internationally. I am interpreting you on this because your party chairman, Mr Coens, said on 28 July in a tweet: '33,5 billion dollars turnover for Pfizer, perhaps the time to open up the covid vaccine to the world'. I found that positive, as the lines were effectively moving. Mrs Rutten had already said this and we know that some left-wing parties felt that Belgium could not support this for the time being. However, it is mainly the liberals who are blocking it. The CD&V stands for solidarity in part, so what is your position and what position did you take in that debate on international solidarity and the lifting of patents for the covid vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u103	Mr Merckx, we are a prosperous country, and we must also play our part in international solidarity and in the granting of vaccinations around the world, like all other countries. This country has done the same to date. We have played an important role in the development of vaccinations in such a short time. This important role is not self-evident. This has been achieved by our financial support for this sector in research and development for many years. We have already taken an important step in this direction. In addition, Belgium, through the Minister for Development Cooperation, has already exported vaccines abroad. Europe has played an important role in joint procurement and exports to third countries out of solidarity. Belgium must have the maximum influence in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u104	Madam President, Belgium has donated nearly 2.7 million doses to Armenia, Senegal, Uganda, Rwanda, Egypt, Burkina Faso, Mozambique, Tunisia and Vietnam. That is the provisional delivery of the total promise of 4 million doses. We are thus significantly above the European average. That is a good thing. As I said yesterday in my speech, no one will be safe unless everyone is safe. It is our responsibility to ensure that people can be adequately vaccinated in other countries as well, because this is humanly correct. For people who would not believe in the human argument, also because it is a good thing for ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u105	Prime Minister, the crux of the matter is the number of doses we are sending to third world countries. In countries like South Africa and India it is said. What they ask is not charity. What they are asking is not that we send our surpluses to them. What they are asking is that they can produce the vaccine themselves. They have industry. The only thing they don't have is the formula and the way it's produced because the pharmaceutical industry, Pfizer and others, want to make a profit. That's their only purpose. That is why those countries demand justice and the lifting of patents. What do we see in Belgium? A little charity and for the rest defending the position and profits of big pharma.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to cope with the comparison with other countries and have done a good job in difficult circumstances. You're quoting my chairman. I think it is particularly important, but perhaps I am an old-fashioned politician, who is fundamental in a policy that the government can present measures and results, in terms of income, in terms of people's health, in terms of safety. That is fundamental, not the next poll or the profiling urge. If we pay too much attention to this, it overshadows good government work. I regret that. I heard yesterday from the Prime Minister that diversity leads to creativity. Diversity is good, but I also like that diversity more. I think we should pay more attention to this in the next few months. Colleagues, corona has had a major impact on health care and the economy. Fortunately, we have also been able to avoid many major social and economic tragedies, many individual and family tragedies. Government measures have not missed their impact and the economy is recovering faster than expected. This gives opportunities and allows for socio-economic reforms to be carried out. Economic revival will not be hampered by reforms and, if necessary, not even by savings on the left and right. Economic revival will be hampered by labour shortages. In my view, that is the challenge for the government in the coming year and years. Now that we can get out again and I meet with employers at meetings, they ask me, while the subject in previous years was the reduction in wage costs, for sufficient staff. This means that the wage burdens we introduced with the previous two governments were sound and have produced results. It is very bizarre to beg for suitable staff, while our level of effectiveness is lower than in the surrounding countries, especially in people without qualifications, people with a migration background and older people. This indicates structural problems, which need to be addressed. There are also differences in levels of activity between regions, Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. This requires a differentiated approach, an asymmetric policy. The Flemish government also asked for this. And the government goes into that. It wants to give greater autonomy to the regions to lay down rules on the availability of unemployed people, it wants to give the regions decision-making autonomy in relation to the exemptions for training, it wants to address the problem of the bottleneck professions by temporarily allowing unemployed people who focus on a bottleneck profession to accumulate unemployment benefits. Those who want to make labour mobility can also temporarily accumulate unemployment benefits. We're trying to get differentiated more people to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u107	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to hear you talk about this asymmetric labour market policy. Both your party and mine are part of the Flemish government, which has asked very clear and concrete questions, through Minister Crevits, to the federal government, more specifically to Minister Dermagne, who is responsible for Work. To date, nothing has actually happened at federal level with a view to asymmetric labour policies. You're saying the government is now. What is not clear to me at all is what will be concretely different tomorrow than today. What is the government going to do in the context of asymmetric labour market policy? The only thing I read in the texts that have been submitted is that they will be discussed, but they have already been discussed. More than that, very specific questions have emerged from that consultation. It happens to me that there will be another round, which is not really necessary anymore. Apart from once again discussing and passing decisions on to the social partners, what will the federal government actually do, within the institutional framework, because these are, of course, the fine prints of the federal government's agreement? What are we supposed to do about this in concrete terms? What is going to happen now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u108	For a piece, further details can be discussed with the Minister for Work. Important measures are being taken, and I note that they are also in the sheets of the Flemish administration and the Flemish government. I have already spoken this morning about the harmonisation of the RSZ categories for tailor-made companies. That is a question from the Flemish Government. A faster approach to the temporary unemployed to give them the opportunity to take up training is a question from the Flemish government. More modulation with regard to the sanctioning of job seekers is a question of the Flemish government. The Minister of Health has just given a serious explanation of reinforced reintegration pathways in relation to disability. You have established that he wants to focus on two groups. It is first examined whether such a journey can be carried out by the same employer or, if this is not possible, whether it can be carried out by other employers and how the transition should be arranged. That is a specific question from the Flemish Government. There is the exemption from volunteering. There'll be more. In any case, important steps are being taken in asymmetric policies. I think that's important. It's important for those who can get to work. It is budgetaryly important for the Flemish Government, because every person at work means a quarter of the personal income tax. And it's also important for the federal government's budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u109	Madam President, various governments are responsible for labour market policy in our country. A good activation policy must be put in place together. We have indeed received questions from Minister Crevits. I'm going over some of the questions asked. Firstly, there is the demand for greater autonomy with regard to the availability of job seekers. We will. A second question was to defiscalise the contributions for training income in disadvantaged occupations. We will. A third question concerned the accumulation of unemployment benefits and regional contributions. We will. There was also a question of reforming the transition paths. We will. There is also a need for more training for the temporary unemployed. We will. For example, the possibility of converting part of the redundancy allowance into training. We will. They are actually just a few examples of the long list of questions. Almost all questions from Flemish Minister Crevits were addressed by a logic of cooperation, just as we did in the COOVID-19 crisis. If we work together, it'll pay off. We will also reap the benefits in terms of labour market policy if we continue to work together in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u110	Prime Minister, your supplement raises more questions. Mr Verherstraeten, you answer my question that it will be possible to discuss this further in the debate. I don't think you know very well what the finesses really are. I understand that because they haven't been agreed. I will ask two specific questions. You and the Prime Minister say that you will work towards greater autonomy for the regions with regard to the availability of job seekers. I think that's a good idea. We fully endorse all the questions raised by the Flemish Government, including those concerning training and the like. What will make the region's greater autonomy for the availability of job seekers concrete? At the time of reading the texts, I had the impression that there would still be a few rounds of consultations, after which we would see where we are coming from. Apparently, it's already been decided that's going to happen. Then my question is what will make this greater autonomy very concrete. A second very specific question concerns the temporary unemployed. It is extremely important that the regional employment services, for example the Flemish VDAB, should get to work as quickly as possible with temporary unemployed people who have been temporarily unemployed for quite a long time. An important tool for the regional employment offices is whether or not to register those temporary unemployed as job-seekers. Will it again be compulsory for the long-term temporary unemployed to register, for example in Flanders with the VDAB? For example, the VDAB can immediately work on whether or not to lead them to another suitable job, either temporarily or permanently. I have two very specific questions. Firstly, what concrete form would the greater autonomy for the availability of job seekers take? Secondly, will there again be an obligation for intensive temporary unemployed to register as a job seeker? That is also a question from the Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u111	Mr Anseuw, I understand that there will be an accelerated registration of temporary unemployed people in order to be able to train them much faster, while they are temporarily unemployed, or to be able to accompany them to any other job. We had a lot of temporary unemployed during the covid crisis. We have learned from this that in sectors where there was a great deal of labour needed, we may have led the temporary unemployed too little to these new jobs immediately. We must not lose that opportunity in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u112	Mr Verherstraeten, I have asked a second question, namely that the greater autonomy for the availability of job seekers will be specific to the regions. However, and above all, you almost answered the first question, but you did not. My question was whether there would be another compulsory registration. You spoke of an accelerated registration. It's already in the fine print. Mr Verherstraeten, is there going to be another compulsory registration for the temporary unemployed as a job seeker or is it not coming? It's a yes-no question and a closed question. So the answer is yes or no and the third answer is still 'I don't know, because that's not certain', which would be an honest answer if that were the case. However, Mr Verherstraeten, I would also like to have an answer to my question on greater autonomy. These are two very specific questions. You pride yourself on the fact that all this is being done. I am very curious to see how that will happen. That's why I'm asking my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u113	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, firstly, on autonomy, I believe that it increases the exemption that can be granted and that the regions can thus grant exemptions for training much more quickly, while someone is unemployed. Secondly, registration will have accelerated, which was also a question from the Flemish Government. The Prime Minister may correct me, but unless I am mistaken, the obligation is also provided for and there is therefore a compulsory accelerated registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u114	The Prime Minister will correct me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u115	Madam President, I do not believe that there is an obligation. I'll check, but I don't think there's that obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u116	The Prime Minister is checking whether it's a mandatory registration or not. Apparently no one in this hemisphere knows, not even the government. No problem, you can't know everything. There is a real chance that it is not an obligation, and that is why you are replying rather hesitantly, Mr Verherstraeten. As far as greater autonomy is concerned, you've just brought up something else. You do not answer the question there either. I believe that much less has been agreed and that what is supposedly agreed in the context of asymmetric labour market policy has not been cast into stone at all. On the contrary, they are once again vague commitments that are not in fact commitments, just as all the activating measures included in the coalition agreement are very vague and non-binding, in stark contrast to the additional social expenditure. We note that this line is being continued in full, including with this State of the Union. When it comes to activation and asymmetric labour market policies, there is no guarantee for the regions, which is particularly painful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u117	Mr Anseuw, I leave that conclusion to you. I don't share them. That is also apparent from the Prime Minister's answer to your question. For my group, it is particularly important that those who work, those who become active and those who promote are making net progress. Work has to pay, more work has to pay even more. In this sense, it is important that we focus on the reduction of the special social security contribution. Finally. This is a first step to hit two birds with one stone. We're gonna take the promotional fall. In the past, and rightly so, we have already taken measures to increase the difference between working and not working for those working on low wages, but that has put pressure on the low middle incomes. With this measure we are doing something about it and making it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u118	Madam President, I would like to take that up for a moment. We have talked a lot about labour market policy and climate policy today, but I would like to talk about fiscal policy and, among other things, the measure that Mr Verherstraeten refers to. In itself, it is a very good initiative to reduce this special contribution to social security, but I see that only an effort is foreseen for 2022 and 2023, after which it will stop. The total amount involved is 200 million at cruising speed for a tax, or a social contribution now presented as a tax of 1.2 billion. If I add yesterday's State of the Union, it says that the complete abolition of this contribution will be considered in the context of the global fiscal reform. Er staatook bij: "The plans of which will be designed during this legislature." I think that's a very important nuance. Last year we had a similar debate, where there were differences of opinion within the government. Minister Van Peteghem is rightly more ambitious and wants to present his reform to the Chamber, while others within the government are satisfied with a blueprint. I do not think it is just a theoretical discussion when we see that this year's budget for 2022 provides for EUR 1 billion in taxes. I admit that some of this is recycled from the securities tax, but there is 1 billion in taxes in the table for 2022. There is no tax shift, as the Prime Minister said earlier. A tax shift means that the overall tax burden is not increased, but that it is shifted. Here it rises net by a small billion euros. I wonder what this government's fiscal policy is. Is there a tax policy? Are we going to see a global fiscal reform? Last year Minister Van Peteghem said he was preparing a reform. In this reform there would be a shift, without increasing the overall tax burden. We are now one year on, and we see that global fiscal pressure is already increasing by one billion and that the good initiative of abolishing the Special Contribution Social Security has stopped at the end of 2023. My question is, therefore, what are the government's plans for the coming years with regard to the overall fiscal reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u119	Mr Donné, I am pleased that you welcome the reduction of the Special Contribution to Social Security together with us and also, in part, acknowledge that it is tackling the promotional fall. I would even add one more thing: this is a reduction which will benefit the purchasing power of the middle class. We consider this to be extremely important. I now come to your comment that this is not a abolition. That claim is correct. In fact, I have to add that this is not new. Your group leader expressed concerns about the budgetary area this afternoon, which we all have. So choices have to be made. I remember that in the previous legislature we carried out a tax shift, fortunately a good tax shift which was also social and which benefited the lower incomes. At that time we implemented this tax shift in stages, precisely because of budgetary concerns. Once again, the solution is to reduce this further as part of a comprehensive reform. That is the ambition of our group. The Minister of Finance, present here, can supplement or correct if necessary. In any event, this comprehensive reform will have the ambition to reduce the burden on labour, which is financed by eliminating tax injustices or by greening taxation. In this legislature, we have already taken concrete measures to this end, and it is our ambition to continue with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u120	Mr Donné, you have actually repeated in your speech what I have been saying for about a year. We will be preparing a tax reform in this legislature, with some of the principles already laid down in the government agreement. In particular, it is a question of reducing the burden on labour, meeting climate objectives and focusing on families in poverty. We also want to make the whole of taxation simpler and fairer. Even though there is no blueprint for such a tax reform, I have always said that we must shape our taxation from these elements and objectives. That's what we're doing today. We reduce the burden on labour through the BBSZ. It is not yet completely abolished, I admit, but it is a first step. We ensure that the whole becomes more sustainable, because in what is ahead some fiscal measures make our story sustainable. There's a focus on families. We increase tax deductibility for childcare. We'll make it fairer. We ensure that friendly settlements can no longer be deducted as a professional cost. There is the arrangement of the footballers, you name it. These are all things that we are implementing today, from our point of view on where our tax system should go. So if you are here today to tell me that there is no blueprint for fiscal reform, that is true. That's what we're working on. I've already debated that with you. I did not hear very many ideas in the committee of your group at that time. Of all the other groups, of majority and opposition, I know perfectly what their priorities are. But there was a great deal of restraint in your group to bring forward anything. Well, what you are seeing today may not be the great fiscal reform, but it does indicate the direction in which we want to go. We have to do it again and again. We need to know where we want to go with our taxation. We do want to reduce the burden on labour, we want to focus on sustainability, we want to focus on families and poverty, we want to focus on justice and simplicity. If you tell me that it can be done faster or that it should be made easier, then I would also like to agree with you on one point, but we are working step by step on a tax of the future. A tax that is forward-looking. A tax system that, in one way or another, makes the distinction between couples and single people more socially neutral. It is no longer like the old days that when one has a job, one stays with the same employer all his life, but one can have different income. We're gonna take all that in the story. It's getting more neutral. That is what we are working on, step by step. I hope to get the support of you and of this House in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u121	Madam President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u122	Mr. Van Hees, I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u124	It's just a fact, Mr. Van Hees. There's no problem. First of all, I give the floor to Messrs. Donné and Vermeersch and then to yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for that explanation. My question was not to have a blueprint today, my question was rather what is the government's intention with regard to global fiscal reform. Is there going to be this legislature, or should there simply be a blueprint by the end of the legislature? I think it is a very fair question, including for the citizens and businesses, to know whether the great global reform is still going to happen in this legislature, or whether we are going to get a little bit of tax increase every year. Because you can say all that now, but I read the tables and the figures are the figures: there are an additional EUR 1 billion in taxes in 2022. Mr Verherstraeten, you referred to the tax shift we did in the Michael administration. It was even underfunded, that was always the criticism. We have reduced costs to almost EUR 7 billion, but we have reduced revenues at the time, but created a huge number of jobs. Almost 100,000 jobs, it is not us who say that, but the National Bank and other agencies. My question is simply here: this is not a tax shift, so is that tax shift going to be this legislature or not? I'm not asking about the details of the tax shift, I'm just asking if he's gonna get there or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u126	It was just mentioned by the Minister, but perhaps very briefly a question to you, Mr Verherstraeten, about the RSZ contributions of sportsmen and women. The Belgian government does not grant the Belgian professional football just 200 million euros annually in reduction of charges in the form of minimum social charges and reduced taxes. In the end, only EUR 43 million was saved. Apparently, one man has stopped everything from happening or much of it from happening. One party too, you know who I'm talking about. In the press we read that, among other things, Minister Frank Vandenbroucke wanted to charge another EUR 50 million in football. So not 43 million, but 90 million euros. Is that correct, Minister? And is the 43 million euros we have today a fair contribution from professional football, as Joachim Coens calls it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u127	Mr Verherstraeten, you are talking about this reduction in the special social security contribution. This is not a question of deletion at this stage. If I look at the budget table, we are talking about EUR 225 million less. But there are 225 million additional taxes to offset this amount. For people it's the same thing. We take from one pocket what we put in the other. This is a neutral operation. There is no reduction in taxes. In addition, I note that taxes account for 40% of this government's effort. I wonder why we're not going to get the money where it actually is. With the Pandora Papers, we know where he is. Billions of euros are in tax havens. But obviously the government doesn't want to go get that money. Above all, we must not touch the great fraudsters. Finally, what is the outcome of the so-called fight against tax evasion by this government, the OECD and others? It must be noted that it is negative. We don't really fight big fraudsters, tax havens. The Pandora Papers are proof of this. What is this government doing, and in particular, the Minister of Finance? Nothing! When we look at what was planned in the conclave and in the government statement on the fight against tax havens, we find that there is nothing. There is no budgetary increase from the fight against fraud, when we know that there are billions at stake. We could still at least have the will to go get them. There is no new measure in relation to the April 2021 plan, this small riquique plan of the minister responsible for the coordination of the fight against tax fraud. It is true that 40 additional tax auditors are to be hired. But since 2016, there have been 487 fewer comptrollers in tax services. I'm not talking about FPS Finance officers, I'm talking about tax auditors. If you hire 40, there will still be 447 fewer. It is also noted that the Minister of Finance refuses to include in the Belgian list of tax havens the countries at the centre of the Pandora Papers. Of the seven countries in the centre of the Pandora Papers, only two are on the Belgian list of tax havens. Worse still, with his European colleagues, he removes countries from the European blacklist of tax havens, namely Anguilla, Dominica and Seychelles. The fact is that the minister is not doing enough in the fight against tax fraud: he is laundering tax havens with his European counterparts! My questions are simple. Why refuse to put on the list of tax havens of the countries involved in the Pandora Papers? Why don't we say, "It's clear, the facts prove it, they have to be included in the list of tax havens"? Why withdraw countries such as Anguilla, for example, who is not taxing? Zero % tax in Anguilla, but the minister removes it from the European blacklist of tax havens! You'll have to explain to me this lack of will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u128	Trust is being demanded today, it is important to know what it is for. Why should we give you the confidence? We have already had a number of issues: nuclear power stations, pensions, frauds, etc. A theme has not yet been discussed in detail, namely the tax advantage for a second home. This is the perfect time to do that. To eliminate the special contribution to social security, EUR 1.2 billion is needed. Before any debate was held in Parliament, the Minister for Finance stated in the press that he wanted to move at least EUR 600 million. In return, he wanted to examine the tax advantage on second stays. At least that's how we read in the press. Now we find that there has been negotiations for days and nights and that the abolition of the tax advantage on second stays is suddenly no longer reflected in the coalition agreement. However, we are talking about EUR 100 million. You say it is an excellent measure, Mr Verherstraeten: reducing taxes, working bonus and so on. There was therefore a good tax shift. My question to you is therefore why this shift is not greater. Why is the EUR 1.2 billion reduced to EUR 200 million, which could easily have been EUR 300 million? The tax burden would not have increased either, quite the contrary. What we read in the press is that the liberal family would have made that difficult the last night. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u129	Madam President, the passage in the debate on which I wanted to speak has been over for a while, so I don't need it anymore. My late mother kept saying, "Never believe what's in the game," although that may not apply here. In a government you always seek a balance between different concerns and different views. That's no secret. Just now, Mrs Van Peel asked whether as a professor I would be satisfied with the chapter on "Back to work." The answer is yes, 100%. I don't know if I'd say that about the issue of professional athletes. We've struck a balance. The agreement in the government is that we want to achieve a net increase of EUR 43 million by simply increasing solidarity and justice in the world of professional sport. That's a serious effort. We want to collect EUR 43 million more net, because we want to correct manifest injustices in that sector. A very rough estimate of what we could achieve as a social contribution to professional sports disciplines is 86 to 87 million euros. That is the amount that could be collected in total, maximum. That's a lot; compared to what's being collected today, that's a lot. The effort to collect an additional EUR 43 million net income from taxation and social security is therefore not less than that. That's gonna be a tough discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u130	This morning I had an argument with Mr De Roover about his story of 5 euros against 1 euros. I contested those figures, although I haven't seen them in detail. It includes the securities tax, which existed in the previous legislature. We have only restored the relevant legislation after the Constitutional Court ruling. So that's not a new tax. He does count it as a new tax. Let me just look at what taxes we've raised. We've increased taxes on expats. In doing so, we are doing what many countries are doing around us and believe that this is only fair. If we correct the tax deductibility of an amicable settlement following a judgment of the Court of Appeal of Ghent, which was never the intention of the legislative text, then we think that is only fair. If we continue to green up taxation by means of a measure relating to professional diesel engines, the sector is already changing in this respect, contrary to what I have just heard - or by a flight tax, I think that is actually very fair. If, according to my calculation, we reach EUR 2 instead of EUR 1, I do not think that this is unfair. After all, we also give money back to the people. This legislative term increases pension expenditure by billions due to an ageing population. This legislature will increase public health expenditure by billions as a result of an ageing population. We'll just give that money back to the people. I'm even finding that we're giving back more than we've taxed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u131	As for the tax burden, there's no shift, there's an elevator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u132	No, there is also a reduction. We partly clean up with taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u133	Tax pressure is rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u134	I cannot say whether the tax burden has been increased, because I have not yet made that calculation. This must be calculated on the basis of the GNP. I believe that the increase in environmental taxes, which we will soon be voting for by a majority, is justified. I think that the elimination of excesses and injustices is more than justified. If we use an important part of that to reduce the wage burden, then I can only welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u135	The fact that tax measures are being taken, that puzzle pieces are being changed is not the subject of discussion. The problem is that the tax burden, which is already hugely high in this country, is increasing even more. You act as if you are raising taxes and giving back everything you bring in extra to the workers. That's just not right. The Swedish Government has reduced the tax burden. We have collected EUR 7 billion less taxes. You will withdraw an additional EUR 1 billion from the budget and you will not give it back. That's not a shift. What you are doing is increasing taxes that are already high. You must be honest in the debate with the people. Perhaps you think that the wrong people are paying taxes and that a number of things could be better organised by tax, and I fully agree with that, but then you must maintain the logic of not increasing the tax burden. In a country that is already champion of taxation, you increase them by EUR 1 billion. The honesty of the debate must allow us to recognise this: you are part of a tax government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u136	The honesty of the debate also makes it necessary to admit that your figure is not correct. Moreover, an overview of the tax measures we are proposing should lead you to conclude that the burden on labour is decreasing. That is what we think is crucial, because it will bring more people to work. We will continue along that road. Then I'll come to the second place. Our group's position on this is very clear. I do not get it explained to anyone that in Flanders and also in Brussels we have quite rightly abolished the mortgage deduction, but that we do not do for a second and even third and fourth residence at federal level. That is the position of our group. We have not agreed on a measure on this. I heard the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health on television the night before yesterday and found that they share the opinion of our group and refer to possible budgetary controls. If in the future, with this or another budget or budgetary control, a proposal to abolish that deduction will have the support of the CD&V Group, but we do so by consensus in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u137	Thank you for your position. That's obvious. We also heard from Mr Matheï in the Committee on Finance that you are in favour of abolition. The logical question is, of course, whether you promise to follow a shift logic when the deduction is abolished, so that any tax pressure will be offset and we will give it back to the people, to say it in your words, so as not to increase taxation further? Mr Verherstraeten, I come from the coastal region. We have a huge problem there: living in our region, just like around the cities, is becoming more and more expensive. This is largely due to second stays. People with quite a bit of capital, come to buy houses, so that young people in the municipality can no longer pay for their house. We see that the Flemish Government is taking measures to ensure that the price pressure on the houses is tempered. And what do you do with your government? You make it harder for young people to buy a house in my congregation. I personally also believe that this measure should be abolished, but I do not think that you should use it to increase the tax burden. You must abolish the deduction and use it to reduce the burden on labour. You ask for our confidence, but the only thing we hear here is talk as if there is a tax shift and the tax burden is not rising, while the tables we all get prove that you are increasing taxes. It'll be more taxes thanks to the government. And then you ask to be confident that you will perhaps take such a measure in the future and that it will not amount to a tax increase again. You just prove the opposite every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard you contradict the fact that with our government the burden on labour is being reduced and we are working in this way to activate it. With regard to taxes on capital, I believe that the government is taking an important step with the security tax. The important thing of this tax is that, after regulatory changes, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we have an arrangement that is uncontested and that produces a very solid and important yield. With regard to football: what was the situation last year? Zero. What is the situation now, with an agreement? Now it's about $43 million. I think that is an important step forward. Would we have liked to move on? Yes. Colleagues Matheï and Dierick had tabled a proposal on social security contributions, taxation and brokers. As regards social security contributions, we are making good progress, as are brokers. As far as tax exemptions and conditions are concerned, it is also stated in the current legislation that this should be linked and that it should be for young people. This has been widely interpreted in the past. Mr Matheï will complement and correct me, but I understand that buying youth players from abroad would be youth policy. It is also intended to change the definition of what youth work is. That is at least as important as the size of the amount. If we can achieve an additional 43 million thanks to this reform and ensure that the existing benefits that remain are used effectively for young people, then that is a major step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u139	Mr Verherstraeten, you mentioned the security tax. You know, of course, that we can go further in budgetary discussions, as you said just now with a number of other measures. You could increase the percentage of the securities tax with a draw. A side effect of that security tax is that the small savers are affected. Small savers who no longer earn interest on their savings books invest in branch 23 products today. Banks and insurers do feel that security tax and so they pass it on to the end customer through the management costs, being the small saver who invests in the large securities accounts of those banks and insurers. Can CD&V guarantee the small savers in this country who invest in branch 23 products that they will not be taxed by this government in the future? What guarantees are there? After all, when discussing the second securities tax in this House, there was never any concrete guarantee that these small savers would be protected. I ask you today whether CD&V guarantees those small savers in Flanders, but also elsewhere in this country, that they will not be taxed extra by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u140	Mr Vermeersch, you are raising a discussion that we held here six months ago. However, I replied very comprehensively at that time. You may do that for me, but I would ask you to reserve it for the technical discussion after this general debate. I will answer all your questions, as I always do to questions from committee members. I am sure, by the way, that I have already answered the question you have just asked five times. The answer is always the same, namely that the insurance broker...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u141	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u142	If you give a CD&V answer (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u143	A CD&V reply is always clear and to the point. Mr Vermeersch, I will be happy to answer your question later during the technical discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we had just gone from more people to taxation. As far as more people are concerned, I would like to point out that we are also doing something for people with disabilities, so that they are given more incentives to get to work, if necessary in conjunction with a benefit. We are removing the cumulative thresholds in this respect. Getting more people to work is a priority, keeping more people at work is an even more important priority. This clearly requires a better balance between work and family life. It is therefore a good thing that this government, for the second time in a row in a period of barely 12 months, has increased the tax deduction for childcare. We go from 11 to 14 euros in two stages. In the combination of work and family, two other elements are also very relevant to us. A first element is the consultation with the social partners in order to give substance to flexibility, for a part also for the benefit of the family. Secondly, Corona has taught us how to telework, and that has taught us that productivity is certainly not falling. People do not ask for the measures to be applied from the period when the corona virus was rife when they had to sit at home five working days a week. However, having to sit at work for five days is something else. In consultation with the social partners, the government should also be able to anchor telework in a structural way, which should benefit the combination of work and family life and also mental well-being. Colleagues, we have been discussing the long-term sick for a long time. The debate focused mainly on the fact that we need to get them up to speed. It is good to focus on getting people started, but it is with the emphasis on what they can do and not on what they can't do temporarily. If you compare our country with the Netherlands, then I can see that many more people are partly regarded as disabled and partly employed there. It's not just an economic or financial story, it's a human story. Working is having contacts, feeling better in your skin and being useful. So work is more than just bread. In that sense, I believe that this is an important step forward. We can't drop people who are temporarily ill. The figure of 500 000 disabled people for more than a year is a figure that we cannot and cannot accept in society anymore. It is, of course, about people who are medically ready for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u145	That was a nice round and I fully agree with you. You have outlined that objective very well. I will not go back over the fact that the principles are in this agreement but have not been worked out. That remains a pity, but that discussion should take place earlier with Mr Vandenbroucke. For you, I have a specific question: do you know Minister Crevits? You're welcome to nod yes. Have you called her in the last few days? I don't suppose so. If you had called her, Mr Verherstraeten, would you have explained the budgets that have been set aside for responding to the regional authorities? The agreement states that, in addition to the existing budget, an additional budget is provided for to the value of the additional number of routes to be completed per region times EUR 4,000. Did you say to Mrs Crevits that her fantastic and legitimate ambition to start 10,000 routes in Flanders in 2023 will not be achieved? Did you say that this budget will mainly go to those regions which do not yet have any policies, namely Brussels and Wallonia? Did you also say that the planned budget of EUR 15.4 million is lower than the amount needed to realise only its plans for Flanders? What was her reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u146	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I would like to begin by saying that you, as a Flemish nationalist, are having a rather strange discussion. Why the hell should the federal government give money to the Regions to lead people to work? You don't normally defend the status quo, do you? It's a strange answer for a party that wants to change things. Why should you, as a Flemish nationalist, say that we must give more money to something that should actually be financed by the regions themselves? It's not very clear what you want. Why should we give money for something that is exclusive of the competence of the regions? On the basis of the Constitution, the special laws and the Finance Act, this matter is exclusive of the financial competence of the Regions. So we could say we're not paying any more. We don't do that because we're working together. I know Minister Crevits has good ambitions. We fully agree on that. I also know that we will not get this story going if we do not give a little extra money to the regions, no matter how poor the federal government is. Mrs Crevits will therefore be given more financial resources for something that she should normally have to finance entirely herself. She'll even get a lot more. We assume that if this works, we will all be better. Because if there is more employment, both the regions and the federal government will gain financially. So we are not embarrassed to give additional money to the regions against the actual financial responsibilities of the poor federal bank. We are not just going to continue to finance the regions, we are going to give them even more, because we want progress. We want progress everywhere. The intention is indeed that the other regions where the effort to activate long-term sick people is less significant than in Flanders do a strong catch-up movement. We also want to create a simple and clear system of financing. The current RIZIV agreements are not clear and simple. They are different from region to region. So we want to gradually arrive at a clear, simple and responsive funding mechanism for the regions. The Flemish government will therefore receive significantly more money, and not less. That is the starting point. So, Mrs Van Peel, you must not tell us here that Flanders will get less money. That has not been decided. Flanders will get more money. You must ask yourself why we are doing this, namely to move forward. Finally. And to move forward faster in Brussels and Wallonia than in Flanders, because a catch-up is needed. But I think we will achieve that together in a good spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u147	This is really Belgium at its best. Belgium receives the money from the good policy in Flanders. That's the bottom line. Then we are going to divide that down again, but we are mainly giving it to Wallonia and Brussels because they haven't done anything yet. That's Belgium. That's what we're gonna do here again. We have a very simple solution to this. If the labour policy splits, the proceeds can also go to those who go to the trouble and the other side is responsive. However, Mr Vandenbroucke, you are defending that, under the name of'respondibility', we have a bag of money delivered to the regions that do nothing and much less to the region that does everything is intellectually unfair. But my question was actually addressed to Mr Verherstraeten. Did you call Mrs. Crevits and what was her reaction? I have heard her reaction in the meantime, and that was not much to do with justice. Flanders will, after all, make additional efforts to feed the federal greenhouse here, so that it can flow further to the other side. She wasn't too happy about that. Hence my question, Mr Verherstraeten: how do you defend that from your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u148	Mrs. Van Peel, this is my last sentence. There's something revolting about this kind of discussion, I think. Will Hilde Crevits, whom I know well, only do so to collect more money for the Flemish greenhouse? Oh, no. We'll do it together, because it's good for society. We will do it together, because everyone is making progress: the people, the companies and all the governments. The kind of arguments as if Mrs Crevits could only be put into motion if the Flemish cashier gets better, let us stop doing so. Actually, that's not right. That is not what drives politicians alone, that their cash should be made better. Actually, it doesn't add up. What you are saying here about a bag of money and that Wallonia needs to get better is not, in fact, correct. On the contrary, we will correct imbalances. We will finance the additional routes equally. We will indeed eat the Flemish cash, but that is not what drives Mrs Crevits. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u149	Mr. Secretary, you deliberately misunderstand me. I do not believe that Mr Crevits should be responded to. I really don't mean that. A bag of money will not motivate her, because she has been doing it for years, and the Flemish governments before her, among our ministers, because we do believe that people deserve it, and because we also accept our responsibility. That's right, I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is that you're throwing another bag of money at the other side, because otherwise it won't be responsive. And that's the world upside down!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u150	This discussion illustrates a deeper problem, Minister and colleagues. In the run-up to this State of the Union, various proposals have been put forward by the government parties. One of these proposals came from the good colleagues of the MR, who argued that from now on it was necessary that anyone who refused training for a bottlenecks profession or a vacancy could lose some of his benefit. This provoked a lot of discussions, especially on the French-speaking side, with the other government parties. Others thought it was the devil's. That is strange, because according to existing RVA regulations, a person who refuses an appropriate job vacancy or vocational training is actually already losing the right to unemployment benefit. There was therefore a lively discussion along the French-speaking side about rules that already exist, but apparently have remained dead letter in the Walloon part of the country. Otherwise, they wouldn't be the subject of discussion anymore. This illustrates the difference in culture, mentality and insights. I have no problem with the fact that there are different views in Wallonia and Brussels, but let every region in this country take full responsibility for that. Let each region make its choices freely, but let them take their responsibility. Because what is happening here, including the activation of long-term ills, is that the region that makes the most effort and therefore also generates the most revenue for the federal level will pay the price, while those who so-called find out because they apparently have a different culture will get the example that I cite that striking.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a new transfer, in this case from Flanders to Wallonia, and we thank you for that. I find it incomprehensible that other government parties, such as Open Vld and CD&V, are defending that here and go along with it. We thank you for that. Let each region make its own decisions and let them take responsibility for it. If there's anything against that, I don't understand it at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u151	A formal point because I have heard at the very end that Minister Vandenbroucke said that Mrs van Peel's statements are not correct and that the government will reward equal efforts equally. That is what the Minister has literally said: in the context of this exercise, we will reward equal efforts equally. However, we have received the notifications and there is something else in them. So, Prime Minister, you have a problem. Either Mr Vandenbroucke is right and equal efforts will be rewarded equally, or we must follow your notifications. It would be wise for you to clarify this: is Mr Vandenbroucke right or has he spoken in turn?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u152	Mr Loones, you tend to narrow it all down to what Mrs van Peel has just said: a money bag discussion. I'm quoting what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u153	That's what you make of it. Or you're quoting the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u154	I'm not quoting the Minister. I think you used exactly the same words. What is going on here for the first time is an approach where the person they want to lead to a job is central. That's what it's about. We want to see how someone who is long away from the labour market can be helped. To do that, there is no magical solution. The solution is not to punish the employer, to punish the mutualities, to punish the doctors or to punish the person himself. For the first time, an approach is proposed for the three categories, i.e. employees, self-employed and civil servants, with a policy of accountability at all levels. Why do we want to respond? To write down fines or make financial transfers? No, because we know that it is the only way to get people to a job, in a domain that has increased by EUR 700 million every year in recent years. This brings with it enormous social, but above all human, costs. This is about people who are not led to a job and who are put away too often. What Mr Vandenbroucke is proposing is a policy where we are finally, instead of pointing the finger at each other, as you are doing again, working together for an objective, in particular to help the people. That is a policy that this government stands for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u155	Prime Minister, you may not have followed it, but there was a fascinating debate just now between Mrs Van Peel, Minister Vandenbroucke and also someone from the PTB about the logic behind this system. Apparently you did not follow that debate, otherwise you would not say so. That wasn't my question. My question was what you and your government are asking for trust for? Are you asking for confidence for what's in the notification? It says that there will be a proportional increase for regions below the overall average today. This is repeated in your notifications. Or do you ask for confidence in the words of Minister Vandenbroucke, where he said: 'What we will do is reward equal efforts'? One or the other, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u156	That's perfectly the same thing. What we want is that in Flanders more people who are long-term ill find their way to education and work. This effort is indeed greater in Flanders than in Wallonia and Brussels. The context is also different. One must also stop always culpabilising or victimizing. It is clear that more people are being led to training and work in Flanders, and that this must be done in Brussels and Wallonia, and they must also make a catching-up effort, in short, make a proportionate stronger effort. The funding is not the same today. The aim is to achieve a level playing field. One of the mechanisms is that additional equal funding is also provided for additional routes. Mr Loones, I hope that we will be able to discuss this in more detail later, but if I explain to you what is the legacy of the government you were part of on this particular point, I think you would prefer to remain silent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u157	The debate is exhausted. If you fall into populist slogans, it is usually because your answer is not entirely clear, Minister. Prime Minister, I really think you need to clarify. Is the notification followed or will there be effective equality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u158	Here we are at the federal level and the Minister of Health has replied. I agree perfectly with his response to the question of funding. However, I would have expected other interventions from Members on this subject. We have a state structure, we have a special funding law and we know the rules of the game. The Flemish Government, supported by your group, my group and the Liberal Group, explicitly calls for asymmetric policies. What is asymmetric policy? Within the federal powers, this is to accentuate the differences between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels according to the other circumstances that exist there. This will be partly financed by the federal authorities and, of course, will make everyone better, thank goodness. The people come first, the federal government and the state governments come second. As far as I'm concerned, every activated one is a victory, whether it's in the north or the south of the country. That that person has been activated is the essence. I found the slogan just a little too easy: 'We do it differently, we would split it up, each one his responsibility'. Well, how are you gonna do that? Like this week's newspaper read outside the Constitution? Then where are you going to find support? You had support, you had a chord, it's a gray-turned record. You had an agreement with that group, but when I hear that group, there was actually no agreement. You don't agree with anyone. Then how the hell are you gonna split up? You're telling myths here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u159	Despite your theatre, you have at last been very clear, you have given a striking illustration of what you call asymmetric labour market and other policies. In other words, you have said that equal efforts will not be treated equally, because there are differences in funding and in remuneration. Where the government was somewhat unclear in its reply, you are very clear. I do find it extraordinary that you go along with that kind of story, that you effectively focus on new transfers from North to South in this country. This afternoon, a very relevant piece was published on various news sites. It might as well have been the title of this State of the Union: "The Flemish cows have never given so much milk."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u160	I have the impression that you are having the debate in other rooms and not in this Chamber, Mr Anseuw. We will not be able to convince each other in that respect. However, this government responds to the legitimate questions of the regional governments, including the Flemish ones. You should normally be pleased about that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one final point, but not the least important. When we get to the streets today, people are obviously talking to us about energy prices and the exponential increase that has taken place in a very short time. We have already seen many fluctuations in energy prices, but at least I do not remember such an exponential increase. Everyone feels it in the wallet, but the lowest incomes are the most. In a prosperous country like ours, we leave people literally not standing in the cold. That is why there will be an extension of the extended social tariff. It is temporary, but structural for the former social tariff. In addition, there is the current one-off discount of 80 euros. After all, there are problems now. Structural reforms, however, are the essence. We'll do that, too. At federal level, a tax is converted into an excise duty for the first time, together with the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Finance. It is important that we add a cliquet to that excise duty so that fluctuations can be overcome. The energy standard is also fundamental, especially for employment. Especially Flemings should be satisfied with that. After all, where are the companies that are the largest energy consumers? These chemical companies and non-ferrous companies are mainly located in Flanders. This standard is crucial because he will save jobs. For these companies, the energy standard is even more important than the wage standard. We're doing something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u161	Mr Verherstraeten, when I come out, I'm not just being addressed about the energy bill. I don't know what that's like with you, but I'm also being addressed about the price at the pump. Let me be clear, the energy bill is very important. It is important that this second tax bill is dealt with. A second matter that needs to be addressed, however, is the price at the pump. I haven't heard you and your government explain anything yet. I looked it up. In 2018, your party was in the Seventh Day together with Vooruit. Vooruit wanted to abolish the cliquet system and CD&V wanted to redistribute the extra revenue to the pump. You said: "Let us use some of that money for targeted tax measures for low incomes or to increase the wealth envelope. Excise duties are actually antisocial taxation." Is the 2021 Servais Verherstraeten still the same as the 2018 Servais? What will the government do about the increase in revenue because prices at the pump have risen enormously? After all, I have not heard any government party make a concrete proposal on this. There is nothing left in the budget table, unless I have made a mistake. So let us be clear about this. What do we do for ordinary citizens who have to refuel daily or weekly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u162	What do we do for the ordinary citizen? Converting the tax into an excise duty is an advantage for everyone, or could it be if the federal government then takes measures to put those excise duties to zero in periods of high energy prices as it were. Then everyone can make use of this reduction in excise duty, including the middle class, even people who are very good and, of course, and above all those who are having a hard time. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u163	In my view, there are no measures in the budget table to address the price at the pump. About the price of diesel or petrol that is being refueled, you made a lot of proposals in 2018, when there was a huge increase in prices at the pump. What does your government intend to do about this during this term of office? Sp.a then proposed the abolition of the cliquet system. At the time, you suggested redistributing those proceeds. What are you going to do with these increases now? Are you simply putting it in the pocket for the budget and not telling the government about it? Are you going to give it back to the citizen, as you did in part for the energy bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u164	I am already pleased that you acknowledge that we are giving back pieces to the citizen. Moreover, we give much more to the citizens than what has been said so far in the debate. You blame us for maintaining VAT at 21%. This obviously has consequences for wage formation and indexation, with much accelerated indexation. In this way, we also give back a lot of purchasing power to the citizens. I dare hope that what I read is true. First of all, I hope for a very mild winter. Secondly, I hope that energy prices will fall, especially after winter. Hopefully it's a temporary problem. If that is not the case, the situation will in any case be examined within the government during budgetary control. However, this government has now taken steps to resolve the current problems. If these problems are even greater in three or four months' time, the government will discuss this. We won't abandon the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u165	Mr Verherstraeten, I think we are also in another room debating, because you are not actually answering my question. My question was specifically what this government is going to do about pump prices, so the prices of diesel and petrol? Or will you simply put that extra revenue that you are earning today thanks to excise duties into the pocket of the budget? That is a very clear concrete question, which you do not answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u166	You speak of in the pocket of the budget. What extra do we give this legislature, this year and in this budget to pensioners? What extra do we spend on disabled people and sick people? What do we all spend extra on the people? We spend and some even blame us for spending too much on people, for giving too much to people, for having to be less. That is the reality. Colleagues, last year was marked by the corona crisis and the floods. This year will be marked by reforms and investments. They are needed to safeguard our prosperity, to maintain our health care, to make our rule of law work. It is our mission, it is your mission and that of your team, Prime Minister, to ensure that people have a job, a good income, a decent pension, can stay healthy and live together safely for as long as possible. Our group finds these ambitions in your State of the Union, with targeted investments in police and justice, with stronger purchasing power, with labour market reforms, with fairer and greener taxation. We will give you the confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip130x.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, we will have to suspend the sitting. I suggest you meet us in a quarter of an hour. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, October 13, 2021 at 8:48 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 13 October at 8.48 p.m.
