ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u1	Colleagues, as you have heard, the department will have to leave us by 4:00 p.m. at the latest. A consultation committee is planned at 4.30 p.m. The latter was decided yesterday in the last minute. We will therefore take advantage of the two hours we can spend with him to try to make the most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u2	Minister, a number of studies have recently been published on molnupiravir, which do give encouraging results. The risk of hospitalisation after covid infection would be halved. The United States has already reserved 1.7 million doses at 603 euros each. Professor Neyts has also been positive about the medicine. How do your cabinet and the government feel about this? How do you interpret that clinical trial? Is molnupiravir also eligible for use in Belgium? When I submitted the question, the EEA dossier had not yet started, it is now. Are there any plans for the reservation of a number of doses? How will you arrange the refund? Have you already consulted the Committee on Medicinal Products on this issue, or will it be reimbursed in the event of an emergency? What's your point of view? I read very little data on the vaccination status of the patients included in the clinical trial. Do you have any more information about that? Will the cabinet investigate to use it as prophylactic therapy as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u3	The first results of the medicine are hopeful. My questions relate more to the price of the medicinal product. A research group found out that the treatment costs $17.74 per treatment, but that the asking price of the company MSD so far is about $712 per treatment. This medicine has been developed initially as an antiviral medicine to control flu. The company already received 26 million dollars in public funds to investigate that. When the covide epidemic broke out, 30 million euros of public money went to see if it would work against covid. That seems to be the case. What do you think of the difference between the cost requested and the actual production price? Are there any discussions on this at European or individual level? Do you intend to buy this medicine for Belgium? Have you also asked for advice from the experts of the Supreme Health Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u4	Mr. Chair, Minister, the American Merck Laboratory has published promising results from a Phase 3 clinical trial. This is an oral antiviral treatment called molnupiravir. A tablet should be taken within five days of the first symptoms. This medicine could be an important step forward in the fight against coronavirus. In addition, since it is a tablet to swallow, it can be more easily administered than other medicines for which infusion is required. In addition, it could be taken in a preventive manner. This medication could also halve the risk of worsening and hospitalization. When I put my question, the company had to apply for an emergency use permit from the American health agency. However, there was no information on a similar procedure with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Since then, it seems that this has been done. Minister, could you please tell me what information your services have on the results of studies on mollnupiravir? Are the results obtained complete in the mandatory clinical studies or are they still partial? Is it correct that this medication would be intended for particular patients and not for the entire population? Considering that immunocompromised people respond less well to vaccines, do you have any information to suggest that this medication would better protect these people from Sars-CoV-2? As regards the procedure with the European Medicines Agency, what is the precise information already received by your services? What steps have already been taken with the Belgian scientific and medical community? Can the duration of the procedure already be estimated? Can you provide us with information about the accessibility of this medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u5	Mr de Caluwe and Mrs Farih had also put a question on this, but they are not present. If they still come, of course they can replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u6	I have indeed taken note of the preliminary results of the clinical study on molnupiravir. The FAGG and the RIZIV were also informed through a press release from MSD. However, a thorough assessment of the risks and benefits requires a clinical study report, which will be submitted by MSD to the EEA at the time a market authorisation application is submitted. The company MSD has already requested authorisation from the FDA and has recently taken the first steps at European level. I will come back to that when I will answer the following questions. Mrs Depoorter, your question was whether this medicine could also be used in Belgium. Well, any medicinal product with a positive benefit-risk ratio for covid patients is in principle eligible for use in Belgium. The application for market authorisation for molnupiravir should be made through the EEA, after which the medicinal product can be commercialised in Belgium. However, on the basis of the preliminary study results, it is not yet possible to make a thorough assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of the medicinal product. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EEA has started a rolling review of molnupiravir. We have been able to read this on the EEA website since yesterday, October 25. The decision of the CHMP to start the rolling review is based on the preliminary results of the laboratory studies and the clinical studies. These studies suggest that the medicine may reduce the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to multiply in the body, preventing hospitalisation or death in some patients with COVID-19. The EEA will evaluate more data on the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. The rolling review will continue until sufficient evidence is available for the company to submit a formal application for a marketing authorisation. Although the EEA cannot predict the overall timetable, it should take less time than usual to assess a possible application due to the work already carried out during the rolling review. The EEA will provide further information when an application for marketing authorisation of the medicinal product has been submitted. You're asking me about my plans for any dose reservation. It is too early to comment on this. My collaborators are taking part in discussions at European level on possible joint procurement. However, since no health technology assessment of the medicinal product has yet been carried out, we should be careful to start making commitments to purchase under one form or another. A thorough scientific analysis should be carried out as soon as possible. My staff and administrations are currently looking at how best to deal with this at national level. At the same time, they are also in close contact with other European Member States in order to identify possible cooperation in this area. You ask how the reimbursement of the medicine will be arranged, whether there are any discussions within the CTG and what my vision is. It is actually too early because no application for market authorisation has yet been made. My priority is to get a clearer view of the scientific evidence of the medicine as soon as possible, so that decisions can be taken on this basis on the basis of easy access and reimbursement. I consider it necessary to carry out a thorough health technology assessment of the new therapy as part of a procedure for inclusion in the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products. It should preferably be carried out in the Commission on Medicines as quickly as possible and, if possible, supported by prior analyses, for example by the Federal Knowledge Centre, but also internationally. Especially if European procurement contracts were to be negotiated at European level, it is important that we have a very solid health technology assessment. I am aware that such procedures require a lot of time. I am therefore also looking in parallel with the stakeholders concerned to see whether and in what way possible accelerated access is possible. However, we must always do so from the scientific point of view. Mrs Depoorter, you say nothing about the patient's vaccination status. This is an example of the immaturity or lack of maturity of the scientific data that we already have. You ask important questions there. Are there any others? We would, of course, like us to know the answer to these questions very quickly. However, they are currently being investigated as far as I know. Mrs Merckx and Mr De Caluwé also had questions about the cost. The pure production price of a medicinal product does not take into account the research and development of the product. In the case of molnupiravir, according to my information, public funding by the United States would have been earmarked for the Emory University, which discovered the molecule. On the other hand, the further development of molnupiravir, i.e. clinical trials, production and application for market authorisation, would have been carried out by the companies Ridgeback Biotherapeutics and MSD without public resources. That is the information I have at my disposal, but I cannot put my hand in the fire for that. If the final results of the phase 3 study confirm the expectations, then the payback effect for society can be determined: administration possible in the home situation, less hospitalizations and deaths, reduced virus transmission and lower impact of COVID-19 on regular care in hospitals and on society in general. I do not yet have a good idea of the price to be paid in Europe or in Belgium, and I cannot therefore anticipate the debate on its justification. Know, however, that we are investigating this at both national and international level. Shall I ask the experts and the High Health Council for advice? We always base our policies to the maximum on scientific evidence. The necessary experts are already consulted at this early stage. I am currently looking with great interest at the rolling review announced by the EEA on 25 October. At national and international level it is considered how a thorough health technology assessment can be carried out as soon as possible. On the basis of the necessary information, it will then be examined together with the experts in the field whether and in what way the medicine can best be used. When is this medicine available? On the basis of what I know now, I cannot anticipate it now. I've outlined the procedure. My answer to the question of what we think about buying ourselves if Europe did not make a joint purchase is the same. It is a little too early to give an answer now because we have not yet done a thorough scientific analysis in the form of a health technology assessment. Mrs Taquin, I do not know whether I have answered your questions as well. Forgive me for answering in Dutch. Are there any outstanding issues left?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u7	Minister, at this stage, and with the information you have given, my questions may be a little early. I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u8	Mr Minister, it seems to me that there is a rolling review. Your other answers, too, are that: we must indeed base ourselves on scientific evidence. I regret, however, your view that this is too early. Indeed, there is no application for market authorisation yet, but I am concerned that we will once again lag behind. This is not the first time in the COVID-19 crisis. In the light of the control of a pandemic, we really need to start thinking more proactively. So we need to find out in advance whether a medicine could meet the demand of our patients once the scientific evidence is there. That's not what I hear in your answer. It is a pity, and this is an understatement that once again there is no knowledge of the vaccination status of the patients. I am sure that you agree with me that we cannot at the moment determine whether the medicine can be used prophylactically or not. It is not known to what extent the patients included in the clinical trial have been vaccinated. Such problems still need to be addressed. You've asked me to investigate the vaccination rate, but it's too late again. Soon we'll have a similar discussion, I suppose. Mr. Secretary, I'm only asking for one thing. You have very expert scientists who guide you. Please let them think proactively and out of the box.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with Mrs Depoter that this is very conditional, although the debate is already very concrete and the price of the medicine is already known. Here we hear the same story of a research that is partly publicly funded and partly funded with private money. I did not say that this is not the case at all, while it is already heavily speculated on the stock exchange that MSD could make 7 billion dollars of turnover with the medicine in question. The study states that a treatment costs about 18 euros. If you ask for 20 euros for treatment, you still have 10% profit. Here we see again that a pharmaceutical company wants to set the price very high. 700 euros is 40 times the production price. This price cannot be attributed to real research and development costs. Moreover, the research is also partly publicly funded. That is why I call for negotiations with other countries and, above all, for a transparent approach. After all, if we conclude secret contracts again, as for vaccines, which we do not really know the price of, then the taxpayer also does not know how much is being paid. Then other countries will not be able to enforce fair prices. That is why I would like to discuss not only the effectiveness of medicines with firms, but also the price and to make it clear to them that we want a fair price. If not, they can be very expensive for our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u10	Minister, thank you for the answers and I fully understand that you want to speed things up, but with due regard for the prudence of scientific certainty. These scientific certaintys are necessary in the event of a pandemic, given the ignorant statements that can be read on social networks. I am therefore reassured on this point. I also hear that you have started discussions and therefore you are not working alone on both the scientific verification of the interest of this medicine – you need efficiency and safety – and on accessibility, about which the discussion is premature given that exchanges must take place at national and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u11	I will highlight two elements. On the one hand, the EMA has just announced an accelerated test based on the current encouraging results, which is an important element. On the other hand, at this stage, the message should not at all suggest that the medicine would replace the vaccine. In terms of communication, for months there has been a lack of rigour which leads to interpretations with variable geometry, including sometimes by the political world, which ultimately leads to disillusionment by many citizens. So let's stay at this point in a rational and truth-based discourse about the available data on this drug and hope for the best for each of us if the scientific data and studies confirm the current encouraging results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u12	Minister, the reports to the public often point out the contagion rates. On the website of Sciensano I read that there is an increase in the number of hospitalisations, with an indication of the patients on intensive care. However, I am missing a number of data that are very important to measure whether we have actually entered a disturbing fourth wave or not. You stated in committee that there is now a report of how many patients have covid infection in the hospital, but I would like to know how many patients are admitted because of covid contamination, not because of any other condition that is reported than covid. I would also like to know how many percent of patients have been fully vaccinated to intensive care and because of the symptoms they have received intensive care. What regional differences are there? Are patients already being transferred to other hospitals today? Is there a different variant to the delta variant that can become dominant today? Is that the subject of the concern you called the Consultative Committee on? I read in the press that your government would like to declare an epidemiological emergency and therefore activate the pandemic law. That means de facto that your government can impose measures for the whole country. It is also mentioned in the press that the meeting of the Consultative Committee is essentially about Flanders, because many of the measures put forward are already or still being applied in Brussels and Wallonia today. What are the criteria for declaring the epidemiological emergency? Which figures do you use exactly? To what extent are you guided by the mental barometer? To what extent have you assessed whether the mental resilience of our population can still cope with the reintroduction of additional measures and the announcement of that epidemiological emergency? Your government refers in a lot of communication to the Covid Safe Ticket (CST) as a solution. We must be careful about this, because people can still be infected, even if they show a CST. However, I do not hear the most important thing in communication, namely that priority should be given to additional vaccination. Peter Piot, yet an authority, says that we must achieve a vaccination rate of 85%. In other words, we still have 380,000 people to vaccinate in Brussels and 500,000 more in Wallonia. That's a lot of people who need to be vaccinated very quickly. How will additional measures in Flanders provide a solution to this? After all, I still hear your colleagues from the Brussels Government say that it is not so bad that they cannot reach young people or that there are far fewer thirds of shots in Brussels or Wallonia than in Flanders. They also think that we should leave children and young people alone and not push them too hard. What is your answer to that, Minister? How will you do that? Finally, what scientific support do you use to introduce additional measures in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u13	Minister, the figures show that covid-19 is recirculating intensely. I've been pounding for months that the vaccine is a powerful weapon, but it's not an absolute weapon. The winning combination is the vaccine plus stopping the virus. There is therefore an urgent need to strengthen measures to control the virus in order to maintain as normal a life as possible. The aim will be to take the least restrictive measures possible. Minister, the Walloon and Brussels Regions applied the CST, but suggested that this application of the CST no longer required masks. Given the importance of combining the measures, is it not necessary to reimpose the wearing of the mask for domestic activities with many people? The virus circulates very intensively in children and adolescents. Several ministers have launched the idea of abolishing testing in schools. That seems to me to be a very bad idea. Do you confirm that you will oppose it? Little provision is made for ventilation in schools. To measure its effectiveness, CO2 sensors are required in each class and in each nursery, in addition to mechanical ventilation. It is applied fairly widely in the world of work. When will this be imposed for crèches and schools? Is it not necessary to issue a telework directive? In addition, almost 500,000 people over the age of 45 are not vaccinated. No decision was made for the third dose for caregivers. Acceleration of the third dose for those over 65 years of age is fundamental. I've asked you a series of other questions. I hope that I will get answers on mandatory vaccination of caregivers, on the possibility of vaccination against covid and influenza in vaccination centres in order to motivate people for a third dose by combining it with the flu vaccine. It will also be fundamental to avoid an influenza epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u14	Minister, we first met in mid-September and you also made some statements in the press. On 19 September, you said about tackling the pandemic: "We are going to a phase where responsibility lies once again where it normally lies, in the Länder. The situations in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia are so different that a differentiated policy is necessary." In committee, I informed you of my position on this in mid-September. Firstly, there is the Mexican army of ministers and Cabinets, which meets a lot, but always improvises. Secondly, there is a huge cacophony of rules that no one can follow anymore. They vary according to the region. I was particularly surprised by the fact that you apparently suddenly thought that the corona virus would not cross the language line. Last week I asked you again about the problems on the ground. The general practitioners are no longer able to cope with the situation, only text messages are sent in contact and the CLBs are no longer able to cope with the situation in the schools. You have replied that history is fascinating, but that you do not do much about it, you do not often return to the past. So last week, you told me you weren't looking back at the past. Today we read in the newspaper that you want to activate the pandemic law. We are in a repetition of last year's situation in some areas. The contact search is a huge mess, no one can get off. The contact trackers can't track at all. GPs have been saying for weeks that they can't handle the situation. In reply, you bring out an old recipe and you come again with a pandemic law and thus freedom-limiting measures. Today, you must fully support the first line. For example, you need to ensure that there is pay retention when people have to go into quarantine, that contact detection finally gets off those bureaucratic call center-like scripting methods and goes on the ground in conjunction with the first line, that there is ventilation in schools, rooms and sports halls and that there is unity of command. When do you finally learn lessons from the past? How many more corona waves do you need for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u15	First I give a number of general answers and then I deal with the more specific questions put by Mrs Depoorter. Indeed, we intend to activate the pandemic law adopted by Parliament. In other words, we will call on this legislation to take decisions with a solid legal basis and parliamentary control, allowing us to take strong measures for a sufficiently long period of time throughout the territory. We intend to invoke the pandemic law for a period of three months. We do that very consciously because we are going into winter, with also a great chance of a flu season. The flu is normally in place at the end of December, beginning of January. If we can't control the COVID-19 pandemic and we're going to have a flu season in a couple of weeks, then we have a really big problem. We absolutely must prevent that. So we want a strong legal basis, with Parliament's control, for measures that we will take for the whole of Belgium. We need to ensure a safe transition to winter, and we also need to avoid a flu epidemic coinciding with a still lingering COOVID-19 epidemic. You ask me what data we will base ourselves on. Well, we'll apply the law, of course. Mr President, I propose that, in order to save time, I read the law. I do not think that is necessary, but the law indicates the basis on which a situation can be characterised as such that the federal government must take strong measures, which intervene in the lives of the citizens and require strong parliamentary control. These include contamination rates, hospitalisations and admissions to the intensive care departments. Of course, we will do that on the basis of scientific advice, which we get from the Risk Assessment Group. This is a scientific advisory body in which, on the basis of objective data only, the situation of the COVID-19 epidemic is assessed. The RAG has given us an analysis on the basis of which we estimate that the pandemic law is needed in order to take measures on a stable and legally robust basis over the next 3 months. Mrs Depoorter, you said that the Consultation Committee would be mainly about Flanders, but that is absolutely a misunderstanding. The Consultation Committee is not about Flanders versus Wallonia, it is about the virus. The Consultation Committee is about people who get sick, sometimes seriously ill, and people who die. It's about the enormous fear in our hospitals for another wave. The Consultation Committee is about how we will keep the first line straight. I'm also taking measures to help the general practitioners. Indeed, a number of problems affect both Brussels and Flanders and Wallonia. I received the latest figures this afternoon regarding hospital recordings. It is not customary to publish them immediately, because they are always provisional figures, but I am going to do so exceptionally. It's numbers that hit the recordings yesterday. The number of people admitted to our hospitals with covid is 155. Of those 155 there were 79 in Flanders, 52 in Wallonia and 24 in Brussels. In terms of percentages, that of the 155 people admitted to hospital with covid....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So this epidemic is killing all over the place. If we look at the figures for the last week, it has been going on for a number of days. The last 7 days, including today and according to the latest figures I gave, 849 people were hospitalized with covid. If one counts until today, that means an average of 121.3 per day. Of this average, 47 percent were in Flanders, 35 percent in Wallonia and 18 percent in Brussels. In today's figures, therefore, Flanders' share is slightly higher, but let's say that at the moment roughly half of hospitalized patients in Flanders are hospitalized. So the virus has a bit of a problem with the difference between Dutch and French, it doesn't understand that very well. That is why I think we should consider together what measures we should take. These measures are necessary and urgent, because infections are increasing very rapidly. We know what to do without any kind of panic. That is why we will discuss this at the Conciliation Committee this afternoon. I can't really anticipate that, but this is an en-en-story. Mrs Fonck, I totally agree. We need to vaccinate, fight the virus and slow down the circulation of the virus. I totally agree. We know what to do. We need to vaccinate more in Brussels, Wallonia, Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Asse, Vilvoorde, Dilbeek, Tervuren and Antwerp. I make that call all the time. I think it is extremely important that the 65+ respond positively to the invitations they receive to have their third dose injected. Indeed, we are busy organizing the campaign. It was launched for the vaccine booster at the 65+ destination. The same applies to patients with immunity problems. When invited, they must respond positively. Please! People who need a vaccine booster must respond to the invitation. It's very important. I repeat it every day, Mrs Depoorter. However, we must not confine ourselves to vaccination alone, because we must once again be a lot more careful in our daily behaviour. Less contacts. Secure contacts. Wear the mouth mask when one enters a closed room where it is not easy to keep your distance, such as shops. And not only in shops, but also in government buildings, in all kinds of places where everyone comes together and has the right to come together. We have to wear the mouth mask, which is also a very good weapon against the virus. We absolutely need to get tested when we're sick. People who are sick should stay home. I also have a battery of measures to allow the general practitioners to do their daily work without succumbing to the burden of tests they have to take. Next week there will be a self-evaluation tool on a web site, where people who think they have symptoms that require a test can check that on the web site themselves. When the site tells those people to get tested, but they're not so sick that they have to go to the doctor, then those people can get an activation code. They won't have to go to the doctor anymore, that's very important. I have put a question to the National Labour Council about which the first discussion will take place this afternoon at 4.30 p.m., and I will go one step further. The people who have to be tested and who have to wait a day or two days for the result must stay home. I asked the National Labour Council whether, in the context of this epidemic and only in the context of the covid problem, it is possible for people to stay home without having to ask for a medical certificate from the general practitioner. This is a matter of social consultation. I hope that the National Labour Council will soon say that in the context of the epidemic people do not have to go to the general practitioner for this. I want to ensure quickly through legislation that the pharmacist can vaccinate himself. I would like to underline that many people are already having rapid antigen tests carried out today at the pharmacist, wherever they are registered. We have to do everything we can to help the general practitioners. They help us enormously, but are really at the end of their Latin. We have to do everything we can to help and still keep testing. It's also a matter of bets on ventilation. There the regional governments have a lot of levers and have a very great responsibility, especially in schools. It is absolutely essential to make more use of ventilation. Ventilation is crucial! That's one of the lessons. We are evolving: some controversial knowledge six months ago is now recognized. Today, we know that masks help and that ventilation is crucial, also in schools. Covid virus is a virus found in aerosols. Ventilation is therefore necessary. I also think that we should generally warn people to be careful. This also applies when one goes to an activity guarded by the Covid Safe Ticket. You will never hear me say that any instrument we propose provides absolute security. That's not the case with the Covid Safe Ticket. That's not absolute security. I prefer to see people still coming together when those who are infected and who are perhaps superdistributors are not allowed in because they are not getting the green light on the Covid Safe Ticket. Is that absolute security? No, but one has to look at the combination of all instruments: one has to vaccinate and ventilate and test when one feels sick, and use the Covid Safe Ticket as an additional element of security and the mouth mask of course. It's that simple, but it's necessary. So we have to make it clear to people that we know what to do. There is no need to panic, but there is really very serious unrest in the healthcare sector today. That is right, because the sector knows what it would mean if there were a flu epidemic next to the covide epidemic. In a previous flu epidemic there were 1,500 hospitalizations per week and in another one it was less severe with more than 300 recordings per week. But imagine that there are not only 849 recordings per week for COVID-19 that is the figure that I have just given, but also another 849 recordings per week for the flu. We absolutely must avoid that. Mrs Depoorter, the flu can hit the Flemings as well as the Brusselsers and the Walls, and vice versa. So we really need to avoid seeing some kind of rivalry between the states. That's absolutely not the point. We must act together, together, together. That's this afternoon's bet. That's what it's about, and I think that's gonna work. You have also asked more specific questions, which are also important, Mrs Depoorter. I'll read out the answers to that. In the past we were really handicapped by the lack of data on who exactly was recorded, their situation and the number of vaccinees among them. It's all better now. We are not yet in the best information situation, but we must also take into account the enormous registration pressure that this entails in hospitals. I will not repeat everything that corona Commissioner Pedro Facon said last Friday: all data on vaccinees and non-vaccines, but I will nevertheless answer the basic questions. You asked how many patients were admitted. I'm going back a little bit in time for that. I'm using data now that's a little out of date, but I'm doing it because I can go into more detail. In the week from Saturday 16 October to Friday 22 October, 708 patients were reported hospitalised with covid contamination. That was 120 in Brussels, 333 in Flanders and 255 in Wallonia. In addition, 187 patients who were admitted due to another condition and who were diagnosed with covid infection were also reported during screening. Of those 187 patients enrolled because of another condition but covidpositive, there were 48 in Brussels, 79 in Flanders and 60 in Wallonia. Then I come to the question about the percentage of vaccinees among hospitalized patients. In the week from Saturday 16 October to Friday 22 October, 54.4% of hospitalised patients were fully vaccinated, thus 385 out of 708 were fully vaccinated. You asked for these figures by region: 39.2% of patients in Brussels were fully vaccinated, 47 out of 120; 70.9% of patients in Flanders, 236 out of 333, and 40% of patients in Wallonia, 102 out of 255. With the data requested, we cannot distinguish between patients who were taken on intensive care because of covid infection or due to another pathology but with covid infection. In the week from Saturday 16 October to Friday 22 October, 46.7% of patients on intensive care were fully vaccinated, representing 70 out of 150. Breakdown by region is 22.2 % in Brussels, 6 out of 27, 60% in Flanders, 39 out of 65, and 43.1 % in Wallonia, 25 out of 58. Mrs. Depoorter, you asked if any patients had been transferred between the hospitals. Yes. For example, 16 patients were transferred on 22 October. It's different from day to day. The situation is closely monitored by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee at the Public Health Office, led by Mr Van der Auwera. Do we know about any other variants? I now have no information that another variant is in play in the current flare-up. What efforts will be made to increase the immunization rate in the core program? Mrs Fonck, my answer is very general and I hope you will not be mad at me. I believe that my colleagues, Mr Antoniadis, Mr Maron, Mrs Morreale and Mr Beke, are making enormous efforts, but they obviously need to strengthen them. That's clear. Personally, I believe there is also a need to strengthen efforts in schools. I did not repeat it, but it happens that the positive impact on contamination for the 12-17 year-olds is very clear. There is an impact on the degree of contagiosity in young people between 12 and 17 years of age, which is evident. In order to redress the situation in schools, more comprehensive immunization coverage of young people is crucial. It is important to strengthen efforts in schools with all the means at our disposal. It's very important. You can infer what I think from the relativistic comments about vaccination. We can't put the situation into perspective. It's super important! It is the duty of everyone to encourage the last young person to be vaccinated, now gracefully! We have to do it! Of course, it's difficult, but it's very important. Of course, there are still construction sites: what about a vaccine booster for the entire population Currently, there is no scientific evidence. It may, therefore, be that the Higher Council of Health (SHC) will already react to this question, but as far as I know, there is not really any evidence. It may therefore be too early to seek an opinion. But as soon as we have evidence, indicating that a vaccine booster must be given to the entire population, we will. No doubt! But we need a scientific basis. With regard to healthcare staff, people under the age of 65 with co-morbidities, people who have been vaccinated with Janssen vaccine, those who have been vaccinated with AstraZeneca, on these specific issues, I look forward to an opinion which I hope will be given as soon as possible. The work is underway and I hope to receive the opinion of the CSS if not at the weekend, certainly at the beginning of next week. It will then be necessary to react immediately. If the opinion is to give a booster, a third dose to the healthcare staff, you must immediately announce this, because the latter is very worried and at the end. With regard to influenza vaccines and covid-19, the Supreme Council of Health gave its opinion on the issue. The flu vaccine can be combined with the covid-19 vaccine. The Vaccination Task Force, for its part, gave a favourable opinion so that the vaccination centres could at the same time administer the influenza vaccine to those who would bring it to the centre, provided that this was the subject of a local agreement with the generalists. It is not something that we can generalize, but there is a possibility. The Task Force also gave a favourable opinion for the simultaneous administration of both vaccines in rest homes and nursing homes. However, this is obviously not simple in terms of logistics. Again, this involves practical questions, but there is no medical or scientific objection. With regard to compulsory vaccination for caregivers, I repeat that I hope that a law can be passed before Christmas or as soon as possible thereafter. A transition period is necessary, but I can't imagine an outpatient unvaccinated caregiver in an institution by next summer. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions. Mrs Merckx, of course, as always, I try to look forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u16	Minister, thank you. You've been talking for a long time. Nevertheless, it was necessary to take stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u17	Mr Minister, this afternoon the Consultative Committee will, of course, deal with the people who may become ill, the fear of illness and the burden that can be placed on the health circuit. Of course, this is not about French speakers, German speakers or Dutch speakers. However, I remain concerned about the fact that you are making decisions with a blindfold, where you actually need a magnifying glass. I regret that. You give arguments for triggering the pandemic law and you refer to the risk of a flu epidemic and a covide epidemic together. In the spring of 2020 I warned about that combination of flu and covid for the first time. Then why should a Consultation Committee be put forward for two days for a fact that we have known for more than a year? We actually know this from the beginning of this crisis. Flu and covid is a very stressful combination. We absolutely know that. We also know that the motivation barometer is important and that a yo-yo effect of measures is detrimental to public support. Then why didn't you take that into account? Why was this scoop in the press on Thursday necessary to create fear among the population? You were talking about taxing the general practitioners. You should have been in a GP's office on Friday morning. Then you could have determined how many phones of delivered vaccinated people came in. The message to the people must be very clear. If one is vaccinated and healthy, with not too many comorbidities, the chance of getting seriously ill and ending up on IAD is very small. Unfortunately, that message did not stick. Instead of talking about capacity utilisation versus vaccination, we need to talk about vaccination versus getting seriously ill. In Flanders there are also hospitalizations. We have a lot of 65-plussers who are comorbid and need that third shot. That third prick is also becoming a Community prick. Brussels is currently at 11%. Wallonia is at 14%. This is significantly less than in Flanders. As far as the hospitalization figures for Brussels are concerned, you have all listed them nicely, but I would like to point out that they represent 9% of the population and 18% of the recordings. Those are numbers we can be worried about. You also mentioned the increased vaccination of young people. Absolutely agree. I invite you to discuss this with your colleagues from the Brussels Government in the Conciliation Committee. What are we supposed to do now? I believe that we absolutely must ensure that the fear of our people disappears. People who have been vaccinated, who remain careful and want to wear a mouth mask when they do not feel safe, then let them wear one. If we want the CST to be used at certain events, let that happen, as long as it is not also necessary for a family party. Here too, we must act logically. If mayors want to take some action because they think it is necessary, because there is a cluster, because there is a large infection heart, then they can take that one that the Flemish government has decided to take in consultation with the governor. Finally, you mentioned testing. Okay, we'll test a lot. We need to be able to test a lot. It is good that you want to extend the testing possibilities at an affordable price for the patients. But I would like to ask you one thing: do not create a yo-yo effect and fear our people, because they have already made a lot of efforts. I don't think we can do this anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all perhaps a small precondition for everything we see on social networks today, with the words of Dutch-speaking politicians who say: "It is the fault of Wallonia-Brussels!", and the French-speaking policies that say: "It is up to the Flemish to strengthen the measures!" I think these words are pathetic. The virus's off the hook! The best proof still today is that we must all stick together, regardless of the region of the country, since the vaccine is a weapon, it is true, powerful, but not absolute. It must therefore be combined, over and over again, with barrier gestures, with masks, with ventilation, test, trace, isolate... in short, with the whole pallet. This is what will make the winning combination without having to end up, in a few weeks' time, in a situation where things escape us on the epidemiological level and with much harder measures then that might have to be taken. Even if it's a little uncomfortable to wear a mask, the added value is major. Mr Minister, I would still like you to have a "cash" discussion with the ministers of the federated entities in this Codeco, beyond the decisions to be taken. The speech given by ministers in charge, including health, to schools is: "Bof for vaccination", "No, you have to stop testing and bothering children", "No, you won't put on CO2 sensors"." And all this in the public square. I find it irresponsible in terms of health. The third aspect I wanted to discuss with you is reducing the burden of testing for general practitioners and providing for an automatic procedure. That's obviously a good idea. Being able to stay at home for the time to be clear, too. In relation to this, it will obviously be necessary to ensure that there is a full salary, since otherwise, for the people concerned, it would be a brake on isolation; and here, in terms of public health, we need that isolation be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u19	Mrs Fonck, if I may say so, the device we want to organise next week, the self-assessment tool, makes it possible for people to stay at home for medical reasons. It is the guaranteed wage that intervenes, of course. It's not an allowance. It's the first absence, it's the guaranteed wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u20	I wanted to make sure of that. We are clear on this, minister. In terms of vaccination, I think we're wasting too much time on the third dose of caregivers. I'm not finding out today. I've been telling you for a long time. It's going too slowly. We take too long to decide. We have evidence based. Minister, may I remind you that hospital beds are regularly closed today because of the absence or shortage of nurses? We must be extremely vigilant in this regard, and we must be extremely attentive. If we suddenly have to deal with the flu and a little covid within the healthcare staff, we will end up with bed closures that will make things even more complicated. I'll say one last word about communication. Things are changing. I dare hope for one thing. It is that once the decisions taken at Codeco level, for all the entities of this country, and for all the parties, if I may say so, which are not part of all these governments, there is no question or cacophony of communication within days and weeks after the decisions taken in Codeco. Indeed, this cacophony not only leads to a breakdown of confidence in the head of citizens, but it also diminishes adherence to the measures. To win, since we are able to move on, we need, first and foremost, a responsible discourse, a truth discourse, effective measures and the support of the whole population. I hope that this time, things will not happen like other times, namely a permanent political cacophony that is rather pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u21	You're saying you're relying on a RAG recommendation to activate the pandemic law. Is this about the opinion of 20 October on the website of Sciensano? Or is it a more recent recommendation? I don't think that's a detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u22	That opinion shall be incorporated into an opinion of the Coronac Commissariat. That advice will come to me and I will deliver it to the Prime Minister. The RAG opinions are indeed the public-recognized opinions. They will be incorporated in a note from the coronac Commissariat. That note has not yet been delivered to the Prime Minister. I have to receive it and then I will deliver it to the Prime Minister. The formal opinion is not just the RAG opinion, but we will base our opinion on it, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u23	So the formal advice hasn't arrived at the Prime Minister's office yet, but you already know you're going to activate the pandemic law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u24	It's with me. I have told my colleagues that this is the opinion on the basis of which we are going to activate the pandemic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u25	You've read the advice, but your colleagues haven't read it yet, but everyone's already saying we're going to activate the pandemic law? I'm trying to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u26	Mrs Merckx, please, it is perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will give more explanation and I will give the floor to Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u28	There is also a need to consult with the regions, out of federal loyalty. During the discussion of the pandemic law here in Parliament, it was clearly stated that the consultation committee for the whole situation, including the activation of the pandemic law, would consult with colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u29	You are discussing the activation of the pandemic law with colleagues from the regions. Parliament will then have to follow, because you think that everyone will press the button. You say you're looking ahead, but the pandemic law is based on failed prescriptions. This means that I do not have a good eye for the future, Minister. It was said that this was a pandemic of non-vaccines, but every time the situation gets out of hand, it is said that the virus surprises us. There's no serious way of looking into your own bosom here. I don't think activating the pandemic law will change that. The contact detection has been organised badly and bureaucratically since the beginning. You didn't say much about that. Experts here in Parliament have come to tell us that this needs to be organised in a local way, close to the people, and that a supportive policy has to be put in place. What are they doing? One builds the contact detection as soon as it can be completed, which then has to be rebuilt over and over again, with all the consequences. If you really want to support the first line, you would have made sure that the contact search is going well. If that does not work, it will all end up with the general practitioners. You would also have ensured that the CLBs and their French-speaking counterpart could follow to take action in schools. But no, they too are completely overworked, which means that all this work will end up with the general practitioners. You could have made sure that rapid antigen and self-tests are free for the population for months and months, or at least be properly reimbursed, so that people don't walk to the general practitioner for anything, which is now the only way to get a free test. Finally, it is absolutely essential to ensure that people who have to stay at home do not suffer any loss of earnings, not only if they are ill, but especially if they are to be quarantined without any symptoms. This is a major problem: one is not sick, must be quarantined and loses wages. For a cleaning woman who only has 900 euros a month, that is not possible. So these people often don't follow quarantine rules. What we need most of all is unity of command. Now we have an organized cacophony, in which you and the 9 ministers have not taken a step further and we are getting into one discussion in another. One last point that I find scandalous is that you mention the flu as a reason to activate the pandemic law. That is what you said in your argument, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u30	No, no, no! It's always the same, isn't it? I didn't say that. I referred in my speech to the influenza epidemic as an additional element. I said that we activate the pandemic law on the basis of the law, and I referred to the opinion of the Risk Assessment Group that the corona commissioner incorporates into an opinion. It is very unfortunate that you distort things and then say, "You said..." I make a clear distinction between what I said about triggering the pandemic law and what I said about the flu season. For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to talk and think about what is happening on the ground, without any panic, but with the necessary concern rather than catching each other's flies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u31	You replied here in a topical debate on the corona virus that will be overloaded by hospitals, even if there is a flu epidemic. My point is that the flu epidemic could have been anticipated. Many questions have already been asked about the bad organisation last year, among others by Mrs Depoorter and by me. We have known for years that patients at risk must be vaccinated if a flu epidemic is to be prevented. Why haven't they been summoned? Why is it said here on 26 October that they can also get their vaccine if they are going to get their 3rd shot, when we have to organise it since 15 October, although no general practitioner is aware of it? That's not a responsible attitude. I am therefore very critical of the activation of the pandemic law. Today, we need, first and foremost, a proper sanitary approach to the epidemic. That's the only way we're gonna get the virus down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, but it gives me a déjà vu. You want to activate the pandemic law in order to be able to implement measures for three months. So within a few weeks you will say that we will have to sacrifice Christmas and New Year in order to save Easter. I can hear you say it in a minute. I have a serious déjà vu, unfortunately after almost two years of pandemic. You say that we must help the general practitioners and that vaccination must be carried out through the pharmacy because the antigen tests via the pharmacy are now also going smoothly. That goes without saying: the pharmacy only pays EUR 28 while the vaccination centre still pays EUR 55, almost double. Of course, people prefer to walk to the pharmacy rather than to the vaccination center. I've also been wondering where the self-tests are all the time. I heard Professor Goossens on the committee...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u33	At the pharmacy, Mrs. Sneppe, you can go get it there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u34	Yeah, well, one can do that for themselves, but they count for nothing. Why aren't they included in the test policy? That way you could relieve the general practitioners. I don't know where the shoe pinches in the self-tests, but they're not valid. As far as the overload of hospitals is concerned, it is the same thing: we need to take care measures and so on. Certain protocols, which some general practitioners use, may not. I've already asked questions about that. They're even illegal. The general practitioners they use are being prosecuted. Hospitals need to be relieved. Okay, how many beds did you add two years after the pandemic started? How many more hands on the bed do we have? With a lot of what you say, I really have a déjà vu! It's like there hasn't been a pandemic so far and she's just breaking out. We do not hear any more about the figures on antibodies and immunity. Sciensano's figures date from May. I've asked a lot of questions about that, but I never get proper answers. What about immunity? Who was vaccinated and had antibodies? Who wasn't vaccinated and had antibodies? There's no communication about that at all. Mrs Merckx, you speak of the unit of command, but let the Regions decide and then there is a unit of command, close to the citizen and tailored to each region or every Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u35	Mrs. Sneppe, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u36	Mr President, I would like to make one more point. On the vaccination centres there are signs with the slogan 'Here lies the way to freedom', Minister, but you are going to do so by promoting the expansion of the coronapas. Freedom is thus granted only on a large number of conditions. You seem to have a very different view of freedom than we do. Who are you kidding?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers, which must not be misinterpreted. The corona virus continues to surprise us. Every year the flu virus also arrives. By 2020, we had ordered 900,000 additional vaccines in our influenza vaccination strategy, bringing the total to 2.9 million. I read that you still have 1 million more vaccines. This will lead us through the flu season if people are vaccinated, hence the need to ensure that the administration and care providers work together properly so that we can vaccinate as many people as possible. Thus, the combination of covid infection and flu is already much less likely. So far, the level practices have shown very few flu-like cases. Let's hope it stays that way. That was the case last year, but, of course, there was a stricter reduction in the number of contacts and other measures in force at that time. You have a lot of work to do today. I am not inclined to follow Mrs Sneppe's discourse, which wants the decisions on the sanitary crisis to be taken by the Länder alone. After all, the virus does not stop at national borders or state borders, whatever the case may be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u38	Minister, it is estimated that one in ten women in the fertile phase of life would be affected by endemetriosis. However, the condition is not known in women. She's not recognized much either. Therefore, the appropriate treatment is often not initiated. Moreover, it is also something women do not talk about so easily. The pain is apparently often confused with menstrual pain. Since this is a major problem, I would have liked to hear from you whether you have figures on how often the disease occurs and how often it gives rise to medical treatment or surgery. In what way could the disease be better made known to women? How can they be encouraged to speak more about it? How can we ensure that the disease is detected earlier, so that women receive appropriate treatment and can be spared a lot of complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u39	Mr President, next to our colleague, I would like to say that this is not a mild disease. It's a chronic condition that's been bothering women for a long time. In this condition, tissue similar to the uterine mucosa is found in the abdominal cavity, the diaphragm, the chest cavity, etc. This causes inflammation, adhesions and scar tissue and in many cases other organs are affected. Like I said, the list of possible symptoms is very long. Besides, they're very painful. In theory, one in ten women suffers from this condition, but very often she stays under the radar because the disease is so unknown. Therefore, patients often have a long agony at the time when they arrive at the right doctor, are properly diagnosed and can receive appropriate treatment. I would also like to point out that there is a study in Belgium that estimates the annual social costs at EUR 9,872 per year perendoriosis patient. That's a considerable amount of money. So, like Mr De Caluwe, I have a number of questions. Do you have an overview of the number of endetriose patients in Belgium? How many surgical interventions are carried out every year in the context of Endometriosis? The expertise and awareness of Endometriosis are relatively limited. Do you see opportunities to increase that expertise and awareness? Finally, there is no specific nomenclature for this surgery. Do you think it's necessary to work on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u40	Mr President, in Belgium there is no systematic registration of patients with endemic disease, which is the case for most diseases treated under our health system. In the international literature, the generally assumed prevalence of Endometriosis is between 10% and 15% in menstruating women aged between 25 and 55. The average age of diagnosis is 27 years, but the endometriosis can also occur in adolescents. The severity of this condition concerns a broad spectrum and presentation may range from total asymptomatic to disabled pain and even infertility. The treatment of Endometriosis also varies greatly, from a painkiller or surgical procedure and various medical treatments to hormone treatments. However, the medication that is sometimes used in this context is not specific to Endometriosis. The classification of medical benefits in kind does not include specific benefits in kind which are used exclusively for the purpose of endemic treatment. Consequently, it is not possible to identify the number of medical or surgical treatments specific to Endometriosis. The nomenclature for medical benefits in kind is not fine enough to be specific to the level of one condition. That is not the intention either, because it is not an epidemiological instrument. Endometriosis is a condition that can have a significant impact on the quality of life, not only as a result of pain symptoms, but also as regards the possible impact on fertility and psychological effects. It is important to raise awareness and encourage women to go to their general practitioner or gynecologist in case of complaints that may point towards endemic disease, to make the diagnosis as soon as possible and to start the most appropriate treatment in good time. To better publicise the disease at population level, I have to refer to the Länder, which are responsible for sensitisation and health education. General practitioners and gynecologists play an important role in the early detection of this disease. I can refer to the guidelines of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. Those guidelines were adapted to the Belgian context and published in 2019 on EBPracticeNet, a platform for evidence-based practice for Belgian healthcare professionals. So far there are some elements of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jiroflée mentioned the estimated cost per patient, i.e. almost EUR 10,000 per year. That's not nothing. You have indicated the prevalence abroad, 10 to 15% of the menstruating women would suffer. That's not nothing either. You were right to say that this should be followed up further. The impact on patients is enormous and sensitisation is important, in order to make the right diagnosis and start the right treatment as soon as possible. I hope that you will discuss this with your colleagues in the Länder, whom you rightly referred to as having a share of the responsibility. Together, you can certainly take the necessary actions, and I hope you will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer to all the questions. I am well aware that we are back at the intersection between the federal government and the states, but I think it is particularly important to raise awareness. In the recent past, we have been able to read and hear a number of testimonies that really indicate that there are still some gaps in diagnosis. I would like to hear that the general practitioners have already received a number of directives transposing European directives, but I would like to see something extra done to bring this to the attention of the general practitioners. Apparently, there are a lot of women who sit on their hunger and unfortunately with pain. This really needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u43	Minister, we have already spoken about this for a very short time, and I will confine myself to the questions you have not answered. General practitioners have been complaining about the workload for several weeks. Today they even announced some kind of strike, as they refuse to test patients who had high-risk contact. What's the progress on the consultation with the GPs? How did they get to strike? What is the state of play regarding the roll-out of the app where people would get PCR code based on an algorithm? What is the status of reimbursement of rapid tests at the pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u44	Mr President, I will repeat a little for the sake of completeness. General, I understand the complaint of the general practitioners very well. We must do everything we can to help them. In addition to following the measures, which I will list, we can also do so by showing great caution in our daily behaviour. This is really crucial to reduce the rapid increase in the number of infections. Of course, such a large number of infections also means that there is a lot of testing to be done. The general practitioners do not question this, quite the contrary. Testing is absolutely crucial. It is the basis for isolating infected persons. It is the basis for the proper treatment. It is the basis for the follow-up of high-risk contacts of infected people. It's the basis for quarantine measures. So testing is absolutely necessary. The testing of symptomatic persons is indeed accompanied by a very high workload for primary health care, especially for general practitioners. In order to reduce the workload associated with the testing of symptomatic persons, we agreed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 20 October that a self-evaluation tool should be developed, referring, where appropriate, to a test sample taken at a test centre or at the pharmacist's premises, so that individuals with symptoms based on a number of questions, depending on the outcome of the test, do not have to go to the GP for a test. I have also asked the National Labour Council to temporarily provide for a medical certificate, which is automatically generated and for which there is no need to go to the general practitioner, in the context of the pandemic for that situation. Mrs Merckx, what I did not just mention, but now we have to add to the list of measures, is our decision that rapid antigen tests can also be used in test requirements arising from travel. This means that even in the context of travel and the testing obligations associated with it, you can ask a pharmacist for help and not have to go to the general practitioner. The Royal Decree of 5 July 2021 on the performance of the rapid antigen tests, the sampling as well as the interpretation of the result and the reporting by pharmacists lays down a temporary competence in this respect for pharmacists and pharmaceutical technical assistants, provided that a specific training is followed. The Royal Decree of 20 June 2021 implementing Articles 16, 2nd paragraph, and 19, 2nd paragraph, of the Law of 4 November 2020 on the various social measures under the COVID-19 pandemic, which provides for the relaxation of the required skills for steel extraction and collection of secretions and excretions, was extended until 1 January 2022. That's important, too. It concerns the midwife who obtained a diploma after 1 October 2018, dentists, pharmacists, speech pedists, aid workers-ambulancers with an experience of at least two years, dental hygienists and certain students. This measure, which is very important for our test reduction capacity, runs until 1 January 2022. It is important to extend the measure beyond New Year, as far as I am concerned, certainly until the end of winter, in order to provide sufficient capacity for reduction. That too is an important point that I had not mentioned just now. I would like to repeat that the pharmacist will also be able to relieve the general practitioner of the annual flu vaccination campaigns. The Law of 19 July 2021 on several urgent health provisions provides that pharmacists may prescribe and deliver flu vaccines prior to delivery. Finally, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we also agreed to involve the pharmacist in the vaccination campaigns for both vaccine preparation and vaccine administration. The legislation required for this purpose is in preparation. I have no intention of changing the reimbursement system for the self-tests. For the self-tests we have started with a system of reimbursement for low-income people, albeit for a limited number. We should not now set up a whole system of reimbursement for the self-tests. A self-test isn't that expensive. They're also used. I cannot now give any additional information on the reimbursement of self-tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u45	I am still a little hungry as regards the conduct of the consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u47	The general practitioners are now even going so far as to refuse to test high-risk contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u48	What they signal is dramatic. That is a real reason for taking action at political level, but I do not see it as an expression of a lack of consultation. The government has structural consultations with Domus Medica in various task forces. Beyond that, we have a lot of discussions with them, whatever is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u49	You also do not say when the app will be activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u50	I'm careful with announcements. I do not want to announce anything that could be hindered by some technical problem, but that would be in the course of next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u51	If you are informed that you can go to the pharmacy for a test, is this an antigen test anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u53	Will it be repaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u55	That's gonna change next week. All right, thank you. That means progress. I agree that it remains necessary to test. The question arises as to whether we will be able to get there alone with the pharmacists. Many tests are still being carried out today by medical staff, which could also be used elsewhere. I call for a long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u56	Mr President, I would like to check something, to see if I have said anything wrong in my reply. Mr President, in the meantime we can continue with the next question, so that we do not have to wait. But I'd like to have my answer checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u57	Then we will come back to that question and then Mrs Merckx will be able to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u58	Mr President, Minister, Strattera is a medicine prescribed by ADHD. Methylphenidate, or Rilatine, is refunded up to the age of 18 years. This does not apply to the medicine Strattera, or atemoxetine. A number of patients are forced to take Strattera because Rilatine does not offer the solution that is sought, but does not have access to reimbursement. I would like to know if there is currently an application for reimbursement in the second line for Strattera? Are there any plans to help parents of children who are not being helped with Rilatine by providing a refund for Strattera? Or perhaps for a dilution of Strattera, because it is now often used?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u59	Mr President, I am reassured by my memory. Everything I have just said to Mrs Merckx is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u60	I don't suppose Mrs Merckx will replicate that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u61	Now I will answer your question, Mrs Depoorter. The Strattera pharmaceutical speciality is indeed not refunded in Belgium. There was a procedure for reimbursement to the Committee on Medicinal Products, but the then Minister for Social Affairs decided not to repay Strattera on the basis of this committee's final proposal. The reason for the negative decision was that the company's application dossier for Strattera did not contain direct clinical comparative data demonstrating added value in terms of effectiveness and safety of Strattera compared to the other medicinal products used for the same indication. In addition, no price agreement could be found with the firm. At present there is no application for reimbursement of Strattera in first or second line in proceedings. The company responsible for placing Strattera on the market is free to submit a new application file for reimbursement to the CTG secretariat at any time. A new evaluation will then be carried out of all the information provided within the time limits laid down by law, as laid down in the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018 laying down the procedures, time limits and conditions for the reimbursement of compulsory medical care insurance and reimbursement of the costs of proprietary medicinal products. To date, the company has not submitted a new application for reimbursement to the CTG. The company has chosen to place Strattera on the Belgian market as a non-refundable medicinal product, the pricing being the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who determines the maximum prices for medicinal products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u62	Minister, I understand your answer. That's what I read. Those noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors do have a function. You refer to the fact that the company has not submitted a renewed application for reimbursement. Of course, that is not an answer for the parents of children using this expensive drug. Today we are going to the pharmacy to dilute the dose and thus to obtain more or less affordable therapy. I am not in favour of paying back this product in the first place, but it may be a problem for less financially powerful parents with a child who really needs that molecule to have the best possible education in an orderly way. Hence the concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u63	Mr President, Minister, what is the stock of covid tests purchased from DiaSorin, Abbott, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics and ZenTec, among others? For validation of the tests of DiaSorin anomalies have been identified. The parquet is conducting an investigation into the prices. How many of those tests were finally used? How many more are in stock?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, there are 379,720 tests of Abbott 1,119,900 tests of Ortho Clinical Diagnostics 312,400 tests of DiaSorin. Unit prices are between 4 and 5.5 euros. As regards ZenTec, a compensation agreement was concluded without delivery. Since no tests have been carried out, I can't give you a unit price.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u65	So, Minister, there is some sort of sloppy EUR 6 to 7 million there. The tests are still not being used as they should. If we want to control the fourth wave, measuring immunity is important. Why don't we use the tests for the unvaccinated caregivers? Why don't we do a serological study to see which individuals have built up immunity without the vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic617x.u66	President: That concludes today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00 with the remaining questions.
