ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are opening the Committee on Economic Affairs with questions to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dermagne. As was also announced yesterday, the Consultative Committee was convened this morning as a matter of urgency. Consequently, the Deputy Prime Minister cannot be present. Secretary of State Dermine is prepared to come and answer the questions. I allowed that yesterday, because, first of all, it can and may, albeit exceptionally. We can't make a rule out of it. Secondly, Members may also like to receive answers to their questions. If we have to postpone the questions, the answers may not be available until after the Easter holiday. That is why I liked to accept the offer. In any case, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State. I thank the Secretary of State for wanting to answer questions instead of the Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u2	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to work with you this morning. Please be a little lenient, since I learned last night late that I was replacing my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne! This is apparently not the first time that the social tariff has been discussed in this committee. My colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne welcomes the interest you all have in this matter. It is an interest that he fully shares. Personally, I share it, too. Ms Dierick, the CREG opinion is not yet in place; it is expected by 31 March 2021. The CREG is working on this right now. Consultations with the Regions will take place after the opinion of the CREG. Implementing decisions have not yet been taken. These will be taken after the opinion of the CREG and the consultation with the Regions. The aim is to prepare them in the second half of 2021. Mr Piedboeuf, the social tariff for electricity and natural gas is only applicable to residential end customers. This means that they must have entered into a contract on their own behalf, for their own use, with an energy supplier. In practice, it appears that the situation is often as follows: persons with disabilities who are entitled to the social rate and who reside in an institution do not benefit from the social rate in that residence. However, for example, the parents of such persons do benefit from this rate, if their disabled child is domiciled at home. Many institutions have a professional energy contract. The real question is whether there are problems in practice. Pierre-Yves Dermagne, together with his colleague Tinne Van der Straeten in charge of Energy, will consult various actors on the ground, such as the Fondation Roi Baudouin and the Service for the fight against poverty, precariousness and social exclusion, in order to check whether there are situations where people pass through the meshes of the net. Since these care institutions fall within the competence of the Regions, consultations will also be held with the Regions in order to find an effective solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is greatly appreciated that you have come to the committee to give us the answers. It is still awaiting the opinion of the CREG, so we will certainly repeat our question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u5	Secretary of State, please convey my thanks to the Minister. I am pleased with the answer, since, in agreement with his colleague, he will look into the matter. If I asked the question, it's because there are problems. Sometimes people in institutions do not have parents who benefit from the social scheme. It is clear that from the moment an institution receives people who are entitled to it, this social rate should be applied. I am glad to hear that there will be consultation with the Regions, since it is a shared competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, on 26 October 2020, the basic banking service law was passed in the Chamber. It was intended to enter into force on 1 May 2021. The law provides for a framework whereby companies can apply for a basic banking service, but in order for that to be done correctly, it is necessary for the King to be able to impose a number of additional conditions or restrictions on the government and for the King to state exactly what is to be stated on the application form for this basic banking service. That's why I have the following questions. What is the status of the royal decree? Will this be published before 1 May? Can you tell me how practical matters will be organised, in addition to the legal work that is needed? How many people will be provided for this? Will it be new employees of the FPS Economy? Will existing employees take over that? Have the necessary computer systems been set up? How much are budgeted for this? Finally, when will the Royal Decree be published effectively, and is it possible to share its content with the Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Freilich has already outlined the timeline and the framework. I am getting a lot of signals from the various sectors that the situation is really poignant: more and more companies simply do not get a bank account because it is stopped overnight. I also hear that the stakeholders have so far been little involved in the drafting of the implementing decisions and that they have little or no hearing. So there is enormous concern in the various sectors, and there is great hope that this bill will come into force effectively from 1 May. Hence a number of questions, Mr Secretary of State. The Minister replied at the end of January that the administration is in the process of implementing these implementing decisions. In a subsequent phase, consultations would be held with the stakeholders concerned, since 1 May is of course not far away. Can you explain the current state of play, which stakeholders are already involved and when the following will be involved? What is the status of these implementing decisions? Is there also a need for consultation with other administrations in order to draw up these implementing decisions and, if so, with which administrations and when is this planned? One May will be quick, and we are, of course, counting on that legislation to start on 1 May. When will the Minister take these implementing decisions to the Council of Ministers? Thank you in advance for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for attending the committee and for replacing the Deputy Prime Minister. It is good that we can continue our work in this way. I refer to my introduction and to the excellent questions raised by the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u9	The date of 1 May 2021 is close. Next week it is already April 1st and so 1 May is very close. There's still a lot of work on the shelf. I've asked a number of questions. What about the file in general? Can you give more specific information about the basic banking service room and a state of play? Is there gonna be a meeting? What's to be done? When will you be done with it? Indeed, as Mrs Dierick rightly pointed out, it is particularly important for the companies concerned to meet the deadline of 1 May 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u10	Mr President, Mr Dermagne has instructed his administration to draw up a draft Royal Decree as soon as possible to implement the Law of 8 November 2020 on the introduction of provisions on the basic banking service for companies in Book VII of the Economic Law Code. He wants the law in place by 1 May 2021. In the meantime, there is consultation with all stakeholders. There was also, of course, consultation with the FPS Finance. At the moment there is no discussion with another administration. Mr Dermagne asked his administration to draw up a draft royal decree to meet the deadline of 1 May 2021, taking into account the legal deadline of entry into force. The date of entry into force of the Royal Decree depends on the further conduct of the consultations. Finally, the Royal Decree should not be submitted to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the basic banking office, its administration is currently analysing how further practical and organisational matters can be rolled out. The secretariat will normally be provided by officials of the FPS Economy. There are no other royal decisions in preparation to lay down the modalities of the Law of 8 November 2020. The entries on the application form will also be laid down in the Implementing Decision. There is currently no picture of the budgeted costs, which will depend on a number of factors, including the number of applications that the basic banking service will receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that the Minister will do everything in his power to reach the date of 1 May. Basic banking service legislation is, as has been said, particularly important. In short, I would like to read an e-mail that I received a few days ago from an entrepreneur, an e-mail that he sent to his bank. I quote: "With regret in our hearts we must leave the bank, after 26 years. We think the bank's decision is horrible. She also has very great consequences for us. Many commercial opportunities are now being taken away from us. How can we justify not working with a Belgian bank? What about tenders and investors? Why are we not also confronted with the findings? The biggest customer of our company is the government. Really sorry and a tough conviction I can't defend myself against," signed with Tom. I will not disclose the exact name of the company for privacy reasons. As you can see, this is indeed a major problem. The company I quoted is located in Ghent and is not in the diamond sector. Sometimes there is the idea that the diamond sector alone should be endorsed, but that is not the case. It's started with the diamond sector, but it's moving on. Hence the importance of doing everything possible to implement that law and the royal decree as soon as possible, by 1 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I am glad that the Minister still insists that everything will be in place by 1 May. This sends out a very important signal as there is some unrest in the sectors concerned. From the answer I heard that there is plenty of consultation with the stakeholders, but from the field of work I get other signals, that they get very little hearing. I would therefore urge the Minister to consult the daily dealers, the catering industry and also the diamond sector, in short, with all the stakeholders involved. According to my information, this is not happening now or far too little. In any case, we are looking forward to 1 May. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for coming to this committee meeting and also for answering in Dutch. That's very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u13	Apparently, for various reasons, we are all looking forward to 1 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u14	Mr President, you take the words out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u15	You must be rapper in life!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u16	Well, you're the chairman, not me. Mr Secretary of State, in any case, 1 May will indeed be a very important date. As Mr Freilich says, it is true that it is not just about the diamond sector. Sometimes the story is spun like diamonds waiting for that legislation, but in reality the problem is much wider. It is therefore a good thing that this is clearly stated here. I remember in particular that the date of 1 May has been confirmed. I have also learned from the answer that it seems that this should not be presented to the Council of Ministers. This is important because it will soon save us two weeks. Furthermore, I note that the stakeholder consultation has begun. According to Mrs Dierick's sources, which I do not have myself, it is not enough, but at least it is good that it has begun. I think we'll make the deadline, which is very important. Maybe we can do it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament 55014885C by Mrs Hanus will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the answer will be very brief. To date, the Economic Inspectorate has received no mention of Albert Heijn's new delivery conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u19	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this brief and strong answer. We must continue to monitor this issue very closely, so we will undoubtedly continue to ask follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u20	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u21	Mrs Van Bossuyt, there is a preliminary draft law currently before the government for discussion. We want the draft law to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible, so that the directive can be transposed within the time frame of the European Commission. The provisions will enter into force by 1 November 2021 at the latest. It is therefore too early to give the details of the draft law. There is no agreement in the government on this. I can tell you the following. A transposition of the Directive has been chosen to ensure certainty for suppliers. The transposition provisions are embedded in book VI of the Code of Economic Law and stand alongside the new B2B legislation. Practices which would not be prohibited by the Directive may, if necessary, rely on the rules of unfair market practices. Enforcement will be subject to the FPS Economics Executive Board's jurisdiction. In general, that management is responsible for compliance with economic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately you are not yet able to say much about the content. It is very important for us here in Parliament to be able to monitor more closely the way European legislation is transposed. So I will certainly ask questions about this. You have not yet indicated the timing when the draft will be discussed here in the Chamber. However, the deadline for transposition is 1 May. There'll be faster than we want. I hope that we in Parliament will have time to look at and discuss these matters. After all, we are dealing here with important provisions. We will certainly keep a close eye on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u23	For both questions, Minister, I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u24	Mrs Reuter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u25	Member, the Economic Inspectorate processed the reports of 551 tour operators, the last of which was issued on March 7, 2021. According to the reports, nearly 283,658,000 euros of good coronas were issued under the Ministerial Order of 19 March 2020. Of these, nearly 200 million, exactly 192,100,000 euros, are still in circulation. When the ministerial decree ceased to be in force, vouchers worth almost €43 million were again issued. Of these bonds, almost 30 million euros are still in circulation. After the termination of the ministerial decision, nearly EUR 43 million were spent on vouchers. Of these vouchers, there is still an amount of almost EUR 30 million in circulation. The working group set up by Mr Dermagne with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection will shortly be presenting us with a proposal on support to the sector for the distribution of vouchers. The proposal will be developed in close consultation with the travel sector and insolvency insurers. The aim is to set up a loan mechanism to ensure sufficient liquidity for the tour operators. It is too early to say what exactly the mechanism will look like. The legal, prudential and financial aspects are not yet complete. Mr Dermagne assures the sector that he and his colleagues are doing their utmost to ensure that they can provide timely and effective support. They understand the anxiety and uncertainty they are currently experiencing. My colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, also wants to be realistic. This is an extremely complex mechanism that still has to go through a number of steps. That is why it cannot yet give a precise date for its implementation. Together with all his colleagues in charge of the matter, he will be able to give a precise timetable only after obtaining the approvals and licences of all the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I believe that you did not answer the second question on the period of validity of the coronavouchers on behalf of Minister Dermagne. You only answered the first question about the coronavouchers in circulation, but not the second question I asked. Is there not going to be an answer or has it perhaps been forgotten to include it in the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u27	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have not received any information on that aspect of the question. I'll do my best to ask my colleague. Do you choose to deal with it in a later question in committee or would you like to submit a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u28	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the answer can be given in writing, but you can also ask your question again. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for the offer, but of course both questions are very linked. If the written reply is already available, I would like to receive it. As far as the part to which you have already replied is concerned, I am disappointed. Today is March 24, 2021. Since 16 March, the consumer has been able to request the reimbursement of the first so-called coronavouchers, of which you confirm that there is another EUR 192 million in value in circulation. Since September 2020, we have been asking for a mechanism that would help the tour operators to ensure this reimbursement, because you know that these people have been very badly affected by the corona crisis, and today we need to hear that the modalities of this are still being negotiated at Belgian level. In the Netherlands, the coronavoucherbank is now up and running, helping the travel sector, but we are still working on the modalities. I find that very sad. The government really doesn't take responsibility for this. Moreover, I have the impression that there is a problem at government level, because Secretary of State De Bleeker has long confirmed that there will be such a coronaucher bank. Mr Dermagne said again: we still need to see if it is coming. It is because of that number that we still have nothing, while the date of 16 March has already passed. I hope that this will be done as soon as possible and that the reimbursement of the coronavouchers can be ensured in a transparent and objective manner. I am sorry that my second question has not been answered. If the period of validity of these coronavouchers were a little longer, consumers would still have the opportunity to exchange that coronavoucher for the summer vacation, so that the tour operators would not now be obliged to pay back that coronavoucher and thus end up in liquidity problems and sometimes even in bankruptcy. The coronavouchers were a good initiative, but the government really is failing in their resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u30	In accordance with the decision of the previous Justice and Economic Ministers, the draft law for transposition is drafted by the FPS Justice. The transposition of this directive is the shared responsibility of Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne for Justice, State Secretary for Budget and Consumer Affairs Eva De Bleeker, and Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne. We have a draft text and are now discussing the precise details of the transposition of this directive. We are trying to meet the deadline set by the European Commission. It is too early to go into the content of the bill. What my colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, can say is that the views of all stakeholders are being taken into account. In order to find an optimal solution, the various options were carefully examined and the decisions taken by the other Member States of the European Union were taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u31	I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that after my experience in the European Parliament in the previous legislature and after a year and a half in the Chamber, I am surprised at the speed, which I mean very euphemistic and perhaps a bit sarcastic, with which the transposition of European directives in Belgium is taking place. The way Parliament is involved in this is, to be honest, a little embarrassing. The details of the draft law are still being discussed, while I know that there are already draft laws for other dossiers, but they have not yet been submitted to the Chamber. We must then find out about them from other sources. I believe, however, that in order to do our parliamentary work properly, we should have time to look at the draft legislation on transposition in depth, especially because it concerns important matters. Specifically, this dossier concerns the transposition of the European Guarantee Directive. From the ministers' policy statements involved, we could see that they are not on the same lines. While Secretary of State De Bleeker has already explicitly confirmed in this committee that gold plating would not be done, Minister Dermagne has given a different view on this issue, especially with regard to this dossier. It is very important that, in the interests of the consumer, but also of the trader, we strive for a transposition that is as close as possible to that of our neighbouring countries. There are different interests here. Currently, 24 out of 27 Member States have a two-year guarantee period. If we make changes to this point now, it will not only make the level playing field of our companies more difficult, it will also make it more complicated for consumers. Your colleague has already indicated it, and it is also clear from the neighbouring countries that this would make products more expensive. Hopefully, we'll be clear on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u32	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the European Union and China concluded an investment agreement on 30 December last year. European Trade Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis welcomed this, saying that it "will give European companies a boost in one of the world's most important and dynamic markets". As socialists, we also note that, at the same time, there is a proliferation of testimonies on the dramatic situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. I also note that in the fall of 2020, Canada gave up negotiating a free trade agreement with China before banning imports from that province in mid-January and punishing companies involved in forced labour – a decision also taken by the United Kingdom. A few weeks ago, I interviewed Mrs. Wilmès about this. It reminded me that Sino-Belgian economic relations are currently in the context of a "structurally negative trade balance" for our country and that the possibility of establishing better access to this market is one of Belgium's priorities. However, this text does not contain any chapter on investment protection. More broadly, too much economic dependence on China also raises the question of our strategic autonomy, to which the European Union therefore seems to favour commercial interests. This position may seem paradoxical at a time when, following the health crisis, it regularly expresses its willingness to relocate some of its industries – precisely in the name of this same strategic autonomy. Mr Secretary of State, what is currently China's share of the Belgian economy? Is this presence expected to increase as a result of this treaty? In other words, how should the consequences be anticipated? Has an evaluation been carried out on this point at national and/or European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u33	Mr Malik, I thank you for this issue, which has a particular resonance in the current context. I am thinking in particular of China's decision to include certain Members of European States on a particular list. At the same time, allow me to congratulate you on your accession as mayor of the beautiful city of Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for this, but you anticipate a little, because it is not yet fully formalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u35	I confess to having given up following the gazette about Vervietoi events; it is of a complexity without name!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u36	It's better for your mental health, in my opinion!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u37	After seven years of negotiations, an agreement in principle was finally reached on 30 December 2020 on a comprehensive investment agreement. An economic package has been agreed which covers market access for investments, provisions for a level playing field and sustainable development. It was agreed to continue separate negotiations on the investor-State dispute settlement component. The European Union and Belgium are very open about market access for foreign investment, while China, on the other hand, is very closed. One of Belgium's offensive interests in the EU-China negotiations was therefore to eliminate this highly asymmetrical character of market access for investments between the two economic blocs by opening up the Chinese market. The negotiated outcome is a first step towards more balanced commitments. European and therefore Belgian investors will thus have easier access to the Chinese market in various sectors if this agreement were to enter into force. In this case, we could see an increase in European investment in China. On the other hand, China's advantage of this agreement lies mainly in increasing its access to the European market in renewable energy production. Belgium remains an attractive country for foreign investment with 267 investment projects that represented the creation of 5,400 jobs in 2019. Belgium has thus maintained its place in the top 5 European countries that attract the most foreign investment. China ranks 10th in terms of the importance of job creation in Belgium through external investment. This represents, again in 2019, 183 jobs. My colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, will continue to measure China's evolution as an emerging investor in the European Union market. The agreement can be seen as one of the elements of the European strategy for rebalancing with China. However, this agreement is still far from meeting all European demands and concerns. First, China refuses the investment protection system on the model negotiated with Canada. As a result, any investment dispute between a Chinese company and Belgium will continue to be settled under the former investment protection model, the ISDS (Investor-State Dispute Settlement) model. As you know, this ISDS model will allow companies to attack a state before a private international arbitral tribunal. In the event of the entry of this agreement, and therefore an increase in access to the European market for Chinese companies, this ISDS system, which is far less protective of the State's interests, could decide more cases than before. Secondly, while China undertakes to ratify four of the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), no commitment is made on a serious agenda for the ratification of these ILO agreements. The ratification of agreements relating in particular to freedom of association and collective bargaining is a real challenge. The 341st session of the Board of the International Labour Office is expected to clarify China's position and has undertaken to do so. While the ILO contributes to Chinese field actions and provides technical support to other Chinese initiatives, it is noted that results in forced labour and/or child labour are negligible and of course remain major and non-negotiable issues for us. Finally, the agreement contains a specific dispute settlement mechanism for the sustainable development chapter. This mechanism provides for the involvement of civil society and the publication of the report of the panel of experts, but no specific sanction can be taken if shortcomings are to be found. In conclusion, my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne would like to point out that the European Union has called China a strategic partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival. He added that Belgium must remain constructive but also critical of China in order to build a relationship that takes into account the value of trade but above all our values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I don't need to re-explain what was said. It is a trade agreement that poses serious concerns for all the reasons you have just indicated. Your answers reassure me a little more than those given to me by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the same subject a few weeks ago, which were less critical and related a little less to the aspects that concern me. I will exercise total and absolute vigilance in the particular context that you have just recalled. I believe that China represents the major challenge of the coming decades for a Europe that still needs to find its way into the concert of Nations, with fundamental notions of values and respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u39	Secretary of State, almost a year ago, in May 2020, I put forward a bill to reduce the VAT rate on masks in order to lower the price for our citizens. My appeal had finally been heard by the federal government at the time, as the rate had actually risen from 21 per cent to 6 per cent. This seemed essential to me, at the dawn of the first deconfinity, so that all our citizens could be protected. However, it is up to me that, despite the uniform VAT reduction which has been adopted, the price of masks varies considerably depending on the place of purchase. Indeed, it would appear that the price of a surgical mask is three times higher in large areas (60 cents per unit on average) than in pharmacies (20 cents per unit on average). It is normal that there are price differences when these are reasonable, but here it does not seem to me logical that the difference is so high, especially since masks are a leading tool in the fight against coronavirus and even more so today than yesterday. Mr Secretary of State, do you have an explanation for the significant price difference between masks sold on a large surface and those sold in a pharmacy? Is there a way of remedying this to ensure that masks are accessible to all our citizens, and that they are on an equal footing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u40	Mr President, thank you for your question. Here are the things that I have at my disposal. The most recent statement of the price of disposable protective masks made by the administration was closed on 5 January. It is therefore to be taken with the precautions of use since these figures date from two and a half months, knowing that prices are changing rapidly. On that date, Belgium's three largest supermarkets offered protective masks online: 57 cents a coin at Carrefour, 59 cents a coin at Delhaize and Colruyt. Be careful, this is the time when commercial ads are made! For the two largest online pharmacies, prices were as follows: an average price of 28 cents per room at Farmaline – much lower than in supermarkets; on the other hand, a price of 71 cents at Newpharma – higher than prices at supermarkets. These prices show large differences between the prices charged by supermarkets and those charged by online pharmacies. If, on average, the prices charged by supermarkets are slightly higher than those charged by online pharmacies, everything depends on the online pharmacy that is taken into account. As we have seen, the difference is great, especially between Farmaline and Newpharma, with a price ratio of almost 3:1. Since the protection masks are not subject to the price regulation of the Code of Economic Law, Minister Dermagne is not aware of their price structure and therefore cannot comment on the reasons which could explain these significant price differences between the different players. In view of the above figures, however, it appears that there are currently disposable protective masks available in our country at prices that are accessible to the greatest number of people. It is indeed necessary to follow up and remain vigilant so that this remains the case in the future, and to intervene where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u41	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You confirm this: there is a large variation in prices. It goes from simple at Farmaline to double in large areas and triple at Newpharma. The figures are three months old, so perhaps a more recent study would have to be repeated. The State has a duty to help our fellow citizens protect themselves in the cheapest way possible. If we cannot intervene in the definition of the price of masks, the SPF Economy must at least advertise places where it is as cheap as possible, in order to guarantee a purchase at the fairest price for our citizens. As you all know, we are still very far from total deconfinity; and even as part of deconfination, masks will still have to be used unfortunately for many months. Thank you in any case for your answer and for the follow-up you will bring in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your presence. Thanks to this, the work of the committee can continue to progress despite the consultation committee this morning. I submitted my question, in time non-suspecto, on 10 March. This weekend, on the show "It's not every day Sunday", I heard your European colleague, Mr Tarabella, say that he hoped for a status quo. I am therefore curious about our government's response. A few years ago, Europe put on its table the question of whether or not to maintain the change in summer and winter time and, in the event of a shutdown of the system, the choice must be made between keeping summer time or keeping winter time. Concretely, with summer time, when in mid-February, the children go to school in the morning, they do it in the dark, while with winter time, the day would rise. In the evening, in both cases, they come home with daylight. From the point of view of road safety, winter time is better. On the other hand, many studies show rather interest in sleep, and therefore for health, and advocate to be as close as possible to the astronomical hour, also called solar time. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of the decisions on the change of time? What position does the government stand? How will you defend this position at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u43	Mr President, Mr Vicar, in 2008, the European Commission did indeed put forward a proposal for a regulation to abolish summer time. At the time, most Member States seemed to share Belgium's view that it was important that this issue should be discussed in consultation with neighbouring countries and that any changes in the hourly regime should be supported by stakeholders. I take note of the note from the SPF Economy published in October 2018 and keep it at your disposal. When I say "I", I allow myself to speak on behalf of Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne, as stated in the document that was transmitted to me. This note lists the advantages and disadvantages and summarizes the positions of several federations and organizations. No definitive position has been taken by Belgium to date. Slovenia, which will hold the Presidency of the European Union in the second quarter of this year, intends to reopen the discussion at European level on this subject. We will therefore have the opportunity to come back to this issue later, as it is highly likely that this issue will be on the political agenda of the Slovenian Presidency. In any case, this is a subject on which the public's opinion could be sought in the context of the reform and the ongoing discussions on democratic renewal, since each of the citizens will be affected by this change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This is part of an opposition of choice between a long-term vision with the aim of protecting health and thus reducing the costs of social security in the future and a short-term vision to promote tourism. I am glad to hear that the team will be called on and eventually interrogate citizens in the context of democratic renewal. Indeed, by explaining the situation well, collective intelligence can be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, on Wednesday, 3 March, during the Investigation programme on the frozen french fried market in Belgium, I was surprised to learn that the free market prices for potatoes are set by a club of about ten people under the aegis of the Belgapom association, led by Mr Romain Cools, without any independent body controlling the operation of this association. The decisions of this body are very important since the prices which it sets are imposed on farmers, even if they fail to supply the quantities imposed by their contract. With regard to these contracts, I have also learned that they include unfair terms in that fries producers and farmers are not in a fair negotiating position. For example, there is no possibility for the farmer to evoke the force majeure due to climatic hazards to explain a decrease in production while the climate is by nature inseparable from the work of the land. Mr Secretary of State, can you consider setting up a control obligation for the ASBL which decides on the free market prices for potatoes? What actions do you intend to implement to prevent producers of frozen products from imposing unfair terms in contracts that bind them to potato producers? More specifically, can you impose force majeure on this type of contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u46	Mr Vicar, for this important question on the french fries market, the subject could be a good one to smile at. Indeed, revelations were made as part of the RTBF Investigation magazine. I also recommend the article from the excellent Wilfried magazine released this week. It goes in the same direction and reveals elements that at the very least question the regulation of this fry market. Belgapom prices are actually quotations established once a week on the basis of prices observed the previous day on the free market for ware potatoes. About 25% of the Belgian potato market is in this market for ware potatoes. They may serve as a reference to other quotations for the negotiation of contracts. Action could indeed be envisaged on the basis of the following provisions of the Code of Economic Law. Following Law B2B of 4 April 2019, unfair terms in contracts between companies are prohibited. A blacklist with abusive clauses in any case and a greylist with allegedly abusive clauses, unless otherwise proved, may be useful in this regard. However, this legislation, which has only been in force since 1 December 2020, does not apply to contracts in progress. Attention can also be drawn to the fact that the government is currently working on the important transposition of a European directive that prohibits unfair commercial practices in inter-firm relations within the agricultural and food supply chain. This is Directive 2019/633. The provisions of this Directive are expected to enter into force by the end of 2021, i.e. this year. Let us also mention the work of the Belpotato.be Association, which brings together the actors of the sector with a view to achieving more transparency in contractual relations. Finally, with regard to the unilateral imputation of the risk of force majeure which you rightly mention in your question, the directive cited and the provisions on unfair terms could play a role. For example, it is presumed to be abusive if the terms are intended to place the economic risk on one party without consideration, whereas it is normally the responsibility of the other party or of another party to the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this comprehensive and very interesting answer. I will therefore consult the article of the magazine "Wil-frites". It would be wise to include these cases of force majeure on the blacklist. The government must work on it, because our farmers are in an absolutely unfavourable position vis-à-vis these fries merchants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u48	Mr Vicar, this is Wilfried magazine, not Wil-frites!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u49	Yes, indeed! Thank you very much, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked a similar question in the plenary session of 17 December 2020 and I have also recently submitted a written question on the subject. We note that a large number of NACE codes have been amended in the last year, which would allow companies to avail themselves of some kind of aid which is applicable as a result of the corona crisis. The written reply shows that, for example, there is an increase in Brussels of 81 % changes in NACE codes, in Wallonia of 49 % and in Flanders of 32 %. For the whole country, this represents almost 41% more changes to the activity codes than in 2019. I am particularly concerned about this, because we are increasingly finding that companies are trying to obtain support from the government in a creative way. I would like to hear what has been done in the meantime to counter the mess with corona support for companies. In the meantime, does the government have sufficient staff to carry out certain necessary controls? Have additional controls already been carried out on companies and self-employed persons who have changed NACE codes? In what way will you recover the wrongly granted aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u51	Mr President, in view of Mr Van Lommel's introduction, I would like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, we are receiving reports that companies are fraudulently seeking to obtain corona premiums. They do so by specifying a NACE code which does not correspond to their actual main activity. It is reported that up to 44,000 companies changed their code last year so that they would be entitled to a premium. The BBI claims to be aware of these attempts at tax fraud from the outset, which fortunately prevented some of the abuse. It remains important to close the gaps that remain in the system. Graydon notes that in Belgium it is possible to obtain NACE codes from 20 entities. Those authorities have different registration systems, where the codes sometimes do not correspond. The coalition agreement sets out the ambition to digitize public services and to follow the only-once-and-think-small-first principles. The Minister's policy paper explained that there was the ambition to optimise the Crossroads Bank for Enterprise. Firstly, is the situation that 20 authorities each use their own registration system for NACE codes also present in other code tables? Secondly, will you, during the further roll-out of e-government, focus on the implementation of a single single database of code tables on which all authorities base themselves? Thirdly, in order to implement the only-once principle, will only one body be empowered to deal with a change request for a code? Is the Crossroads Bank eligible for this? Fourthly, De Tijd reports that today the Economic Inspectorate can only carry out a retrospective check on the NACE codes that a company registers through the business counters. Do you think that such a check will be sufficient after the event?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u53	Mr President, at the start of the corona crisis, many companies continued their activities in a different form. Classic examples are the restaurants that work via takeaway or retailers that sell through their webshop. To this end, a change in the registration in the CBO or the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises was in principle necessary. In order to avoid those paying changes, an exception was included in Article 3 (51) of the Code of Economic Law. The exception applies where undertakings wish to temporarily carry out their activities in a different way. It cannot be excluded that some companies have registered activities that they do not actually carry out. They do so in order to obtain undue support in the context of the corona crisis. The regional authorities grant that corona aid and pay it out. They also have the power to carry out a retrospective check on the companies' entitlement to the aid. They may also recover aid unduly received. In any event, the Economic Inspection shall carry out checks to determine whether an undertaking carries out an activity other than the NACE code under which the undertaking is registered. Such checks shall be carried out on the basis of notifications and in the framework of its general investigations. Of course, the Economic Inspectorate pays particular attention to this particular issue. The fight against ghost companies is a priority of the Economic Inspectorate. The College's action plan on the fight against tax and social fraud, which will shortly be adopted, contains a specific project on the subject. Mr Vanbesien, with regard to your specific questions, I cannot add that the exact number of bodies using their own registration system for the NACE code is known. That is the case, because different authorities need to know what activity undertakings are engaged in. Depending on the objective pursued by an authority, it is interested in one or more activities. There is already a centralised database, namely the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. The registration of a registered entity in the CFD shall include the information relating to the economic activity that that entity carries out. All these activities are recorded in the NACE code. Both the administration and citizens have access to this information through, for example, the Public Search application that can be run online. Companies are already required to report to an approved business window of their choice in order to register their activity in the KBO. The same procedure should be followed when the activities are changed. There is thus already a body competent to register these data in the CBO. With regard to the question of a number of investigations by the Treasury last year, Mr Dermagne refers to the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, you say that a number of restaurants and webshops have adapted to their NACE code. That was necessary initially, but, as you also said, there was an amendment to the law, which would not be necessary for a time. Mr Secretary of State, I think you have given a general explanation of this problem. For example, you say that it cannot be ruled out that, there can be a retroactive recovery, the checks on notifications and general checks. However, I have not heard a strong signal. I have not heard any vigorous policy to solve this particular problem. I haven't heard that you're going to use extra staff to deal with this fraud. I am not saying that you need to check all the changes to the NACE codes, but I think you can filter out some of the irregularities from which a lot of irregularities could be distilled. Those are things I haven't heard. I do not think that this is fair to those companies that have done everything by the book and have not been creative in order to pass through the subsidy pool. I'm disappointed. I put a question to Mr Dermagne in plenary on 17 December. I have submitted a written question. I am again asking an oral question today. I note that too little is being done to put an end to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I have not heard anything in your reply about the fines that will or will not be imposed. I hope that it will not only be about recovering the money, but above all that those who have deliberately abused it will be severely punished. Our expenses are already hugely high. We must not allow them to be abused and we must not allow money to go to companies that try to do so. I hope there will be heavy fines on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, as far as the general administration and administrative tasks are concerned, I will read the answer carefully to determine whether I am asking any further follow-up questions. With regard to the question of changes to the codes that are now being made, it is good to know that some of the amendments are legitimate and therefore take place for good reasons. However, we also know that some of the amendments are being made for fraudulent reasons. In my opinion, it is very important that we, as a government, ensure that all the aid, the aid and the money we spend on it does not end up where it does not belong. How shameless can one be to abuse such a crisis, with such an effort by the government to limit its impact, to enrich itself? That is the lowest thing we can do in this crisis. I therefore hope that any abuse will be detected and severely punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, all the European Member States have spent a lot of state aid to cope with the economic consequences of the corona crisis. But not all approved State aid has actually been spent. This is also confirmed by Mrs Vestager, Vice-President of the European Commission, in a letter to Members of the European Parliament. These figures show that the differences between Member States are large. What is particularly striking, and we are not entirely clear, is that between mid-March and December 2020 Belgium received a total of EUR 56.08 billion in state aid, but apparently that amount has not been spent. In total, our country spent EUR 3.64 billion in that period, which is 1.89 %. We would have liked to have been given the explanation for this. On the other hand, the figures that Professor Jan Van Hove van de KULeuven recently presented. He demonstrated the relationship between the amount of state aid spent and the economic damage. This shows that Belgium, especially compared to the Netherlands or Denmark, for example, is not doing well. We spend a lot of money and we suffer a lot of damage. Our country spent almost 12% of its gross domestic product of 2019, but lost around 18% of its nominal gross domestic product. How do you explain this and how do you explain that our economy still suffers heavily from corona, while there is a relatively high level of state aid compared to other countries? Which figures are exactly the right ones? How much has our country spent on state aid and what is the economic damage caused by the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u58	Mr President, there is a simple explanation for the large difference between the amount of state aid approved by the European Commission, in particular EUR 56 billion, and the amount actually spent, amounting to EUR 3.64 billion. Most of the difference is due to the State guarantee and the insurance programme for loans to companies. Fortunately, the full amount of state aid was not spent. If that were the case, it would mean that the Belgian economy would have many bankruptcies. If you would like more information, my colleague Dermagne would advise you to contact Minister Van Peteghem or Secretary of State De Bleeker. The amounts quoted do not correspond to the amounts released by the federal government and social security in the context of the corona crisis. The State aid under the Temporary Framework is intended to compensate for the damage caused by the corona crisis and to protect the Belgian economic fabric. It is necessary to ensure that sufficient liquidity remains available in the markets. We must also ensure that companies that were healthy before the crisis do not get into difficulties due to a sudden drop in demand and containment measures. Every effort is being made to ensure that the economic consequences are temporary. There has already been a significant economic recovery this year, but our economy has not yet moved from the phase of support to the phase of relance. Therefore, it seems too early to me to assess the efficiency of the support measures that are often taken in an emergency. It is certainly necessary to take note of the criticism and studies on this subject in order to draw the necessary lessons. The interpretation of Professor Van Hove's study requires caution. It is true that Belgium is one of the countries that provided for a relatively large aid package in relation to GDP. The study shows that in Belgium, as in France and Italy, there was, among other things, a clear link between government support and the impact of the crisis on economic growth during the first wave. As the study is based on partial information, in particular on the amounts of aid, it is premature to draw far-reaching conclusions. If we compare the development of the Belgian economy with that of the euro area, we are in any case doing better. In Belgium, GDP is shrinking by 6.2 % in 2020 compared to 6.8 % in the euro area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, it is becoming very painfully clear today that we cannot go back to relance and that a great deal of support will be needed in the coming weeks and perhaps months. You say that it is a little premature to draw far-reaching conclusions and that it is too early to assess efficiency. We shall certainly continue to monitor it and follow it up. Hopefully, we will be able to reach conclusions quickly and also to relance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u60	I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u61	Mrs Dierick and Mrs Van Bossuyt, we confirm the response of the December 2020 Prize Observatory. The health crisis and the periods of lockdown have had little impact on the evolution of food prices in 2020. Except for some unprocessed foods such as peeled shrimp, and some vegetables, the price evolution is due to other factors, including weather conditions or African swine fever. We also see that the inflation rate for processed food is 2.1 % lower in 2020 than the average of the last ten years. The supermarkets have not raised prices more than they need. Food prices have also increased no more than in our neighbouring countries. The Price Observatory will continue to monitor the margins of the different players in the retail sector. Last year's data are not all available. Between 2005 and 2020, prices for processed food in Belgium have risen faster than in all our neighbouring countries. Several factors have played a role in this, firstly, a structural factor, such as changes in the tax rate, and secondly, factors linked to food consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u62	Thank you for the answer, even though you have not dealt with all my questions. Will farmers actually receive more compensation for their products? The general prices of processed products are rising, but the question is, of course, who is going to walk with the margins. The Prize Observatory will carry out further research into this. We will certainly ask questions about that. It is important that every link in the food chain gets a share if prices go up. This must certainly be the case for farmers, who are already working at very low rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u63	We're glad the Prize Observatory did the study. We had already asked Mr Dermagne about this. He didn't go into that at the time, but apparently he did now. We are very happy about that. You say that the supermarkets have only raised their prices more than they need and that there is a faster increase in the prices of processed food than in our neighbouring countries. There is indeed a problem in Belgium. Food prices are generally much higher in Belgium than in our neighbouring countries. The fact that Belgians shop just across the border is a well-known phenomenon. Your government therefore has an important role to play in this respect. The government can exert an influence by, for example, developing more flexible labour legislation, which could lead to lower prices, which are much higher than in our neighbouring countries because of higher distribution costs or labour costs. I'm counting on you to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u64	Mrs Houtmeyers, we are told that your question No. 55015785C on late payments of social security contributions to self-employed persons has been forwarded to Minister Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, Minister Dermagne and myself, of course, understand the concerns, which are totally legitimate. We are following the figures closely, but unfortunately they are rising again. New measures will be discussed today by the Consultation Committee. If the rules are tightened, this will be done through a collective decision of the Consultative Committee, together with the Länder. We will take the necessary measures to prevent a health catastrophe and to avoid our hospital capacity being exceeded. At the same time, we are taking all the necessary measures to compensate workers and businesses for the losses caused by these decisions. We are looking for the most effective measures. We are trying to take various aspects into account in our decisions: health, the economy, the social dimension and well-being. The numbers of infections and hospitalizations are disturbing. This confirms the need for the Consultation Committee to take place today. However, Minister Dermagne wants to end with a positive note. The vaccination process is accelerating and can continue with the advent of new vaccines. In the relatively short term, vaccination will lead us to freedom. That's what we're all hoping for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u66	Minister, we do indeed see that the contagion rates did not rise at the beginning of December, when the shops opened. I think it is perfectly normal that a lot of self-employed workers, shopkeepers, but also hairdressers are now asking not to close their business again. You cannot imagine how powerless these people are, as at that time there was no direct link between the opening of shops and the increase in figures. I don't think that's gonna happen now either. I hear more and more self-employed people and shopkeepers saying that they really will not close their shop again or, if they have to, they will never reopen their shop again. We really must bear in mind that it will again be a very heavy blow for those people who cannot be dealt with. They are nearing the end at the moment. However, there is nothing we can do now but wait for the outcome of the Consultative Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic423x.u67	For the sake of clarity, question No. 55015785C by Mrs Houtmeyers is forwarded to Minister Clarinval. I would once again like to thank Secretary of State Dermine for replying in place of Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne.
