ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, I will first give an introduction on behalf of the government. We will then listen to your questions and comments. After that, the relevant ministers will provide additional explanations and answers. Today is not the first time this Parliament has been informed of these floods. As you know, Minister Verlinden already gave a detailed explanation on 1 September of what the services of the Interior did during those crucial first hours and their aftermath. At that time, I think it was right to say that Parliament should have come together earlier to discuss the situation in the presence of the various ministers. As you know, the rules are clear: the Chamber itself sets its agenda, it is not the government that decides that the Chamber should meet earlier, although, of course, we in the government had no problem in answering that question. I myself was present twice during the recess with the competent colleagues to explain decisions taken in other dossiers, so it would certainly have been possible to do so in this dossier. In addition to Minister Verlinden's explanatory statement on 1 September, Minister Vandenbroucke answered questions on the impact of the floods on health workers and public health itself on 14 September. On 22 September, Minister Dedonder took part in a topical debate on the deployment of Defence in the Committee for Defence. These three ministers are now here to answer further questions and comment. So much for the practical aspects. Now I come to the heart of the matter. This summer, Europe and our country were affected by extreme weather conditions. The rainfall that fell was unprecedented, and the strength of the water was such that it often prevented helicopter mobilization during the first two days. As a result, no air rescue operation could be carried out because the weather did not permit it. It was also impossible to get an idea of the terrain to be covered. Particular attention had to be paid to several elements: the current, the draught and the obstacles in and on the water. In some places, the current was too strong for evacuations. As a result, priority had to be given to the safety of evacuees and personnel, and therefore, unfortunately, some rescue operations had to be postponed. However, the available assistance has been deployed. It has been complemented by international assistance that we have accepted with gratitude. The National Crisis Centre coordinated from the first meetings of 14 July during the federal and post-crisis phases, and a federal support unit was established from 6 August. The results of these floods, apart from the material damage, are nevertheless extremely heavy: almost 40 of our compatriots lost their lives during these floods, the worst that our country has known in Verviers, Chaudfontaine, Trooz, Eupen, Pepinster, Spa, Aywaille, Angleur and Philippeville. On 19 July 2021, after spending a day in Wallonia and Limburg observing the damage caused by water and measuring our impotence in the face of the price we had just paid to nature, I had decided to write a letter to the victims of the floods. Here is the content: "We're not going to abandon you. We, the government, will do everything possible to support as much as possible the families and communities that have been affected by these floods." So we leave no one behind, but remain united. That is why I would like to thank once again the men and women who have participated in the wave of solidarity we have never seen before in our country. Those who have saved between the flood through lives, sometimes at risk for their own lives. Thousands of volunteers, Brusselsers, Flemings, Belgians mostly, but also Luxembourgers, French and Germans, have put their hands up to help families they often didn't know. A voluntary form of solidarity that is still in progress. I would also like to thank the many members of Defence and Emergency Preparedness, Emergency Areas, the Federal Police or the Public Health FPS, who have distributed up to 13,000 meals a day in the affected areas in recent weeks. They also participated in the deployment of comfortable shower cabins in a large number of affected municipalities. I also thank the teams of the Walloon Region and its police station who are working on the ground to find solutions to the many major problems that arise, day by day. This also applies, of course, to the services of the Flemish government which have assisted the affected municipalities in the Flemish Region. These efforts will never be sufficient in the light of the shock we have suffered, but what could be more concrete as an action? As announced, Defence and Emergency Preparedness will remain on the ground to help, in the near future and as long as it takes. During this acute crisis phase, our soldiers were deployed, supplemented by the necessary resources, to provide direct assistance to people in need. These are means such as boats, pumps, trucks, sandbags and field beds. In addition, an NH90 helicopter has flown out several times for rescue operations. In total, more than 11,000 man-days of aid have been delivered by the Defense Department. That's an average of 182 soldiers a day with a peak of 374 soldiers a day. The federal government has recently extended the activities of the federal support cell until mid-November. The federal services will continue their work in the field, with the support of the special Commissariat set up by the Walloon Region. Civil Protection is present at the site in particular to empty damaged fuel tanks. It will continue to do so, just as it will continue to transport movable goods. In cooperation with the Defence, it will also participate in the clean-up of the banks of the various watercourses. The federal police will strengthen, if necessary, the local police areas to secure the most affected neighbourhoods. It will also conduct helicopter and drone flights to better assess the potential risk of future weather in the affected areas. The Ministry of Defence continues to transfer and distribute meals to the Red Cross and remains present for additional civil engineering and clearance work. The Public Health FPS also remains present in the affected areas by being present at the level of the various levels of assistance. Cooperation with field services has been characterized by a high degree of adaptability and flexibility. Although operational tasks have been largely taken over by the federated entity, the Public Health FPS continues to provide psychosocial support. The Red Cross is a strategic partner in the emergency response but, in the case we are dealing with, the front-line actors, the CPAS, are also involved. The federal government sees its supporting role also wider than crisis management. In addition to a series of immediate socio-economic measures during the summer, last week the government reaffirmed its solidarity, particularly with regard to the situation in Wallonia. In September, the Walloon government sent a letter to the federal government to draw its attention to the budgetary impact of the floods on the region's finances. This impact was added to that of the covid. The federal government responded at the outset that it would pay the greatest attention to this. We've been in constant contact. After a more in-depth technical and legal analysis, the federal government decided in Kern that it will make available to the Walloon Region 1.2 billion of financing in the form of a loan. The federal government has also chosen to respond favourably to all other requests from the Walloon Region. First, until the end of 2022, a reduced rate of VAT (6%) will apply in areas affected by demolition and reconstruction. This measure will be available to all housing owners affected by extreme weather conditions. Secondly, the federal government also enthusiastically supports the idea of extending the support zones, free zones. The goal is that employers who invest in a disaster-stricken area can obtain up to 25% tax reduction at source on the wages of new hires. Thirdly, companies located in the affected areas will be able to continue to use the temporary unemployment scheme set up in the context of the Corona crisis and whose lifespan has just been extended until 31 December 2021, as the self-employed who are heavily affected by the floods will be able to benefit from the bridge law regime because of force majeure. These measures will have a direct and concrete impact on the lives and finances of families and businesses trying to get their heads out of the water. Finally, we must also learn lessons from what we have been through. We must ask ourselves what kind of crises we want to be able to withstand in our country, and whether this is possible at all. Risk analyses are carried out, but there will always be a certain residual risk. In my view, we need a thorough evaluation. Minister Verlinden has already announced the installation of a learning committee, whose specifications will be published shortly. The evaluation of Civilian Protection Reform is also part of the pipeline. The contract will be awarded later this month. The government invites all relevant authorities to make recommendations on their experiences over recent months to improve crisis management in our country. They gather proposals from the Coronac Commissioner in response to the covid crisis and the National Crisis Centre in response to the flood. But lessons must also be learned about the causes of the disaster. Climate change increases the risk that Belgium will again face exceptional weather conditions in the coming years. Think of heavy floods, but also extreme droughts, with all the consequences for our people and our economy. The events of this summer show why climate policy is so important. Climate policy is not about degrees and percentage points, but about the well-being of our planet, our society and our citizens. Mitigation, reducing emissions, remains essential. The EU and the federal government are in favour of the min-5% target. The European Union and this federal government showed leadership in this. We must continue to do this, particularly in the run-up to COP26, in order to convince other countries to make the necessary commitments by 2030 and 2050. In addition to these reduction efforts, we need to take additional measures to adapt to climate change. Under the leadership of Minister Khattabi, a working group was launched in early July to examine, in every detail, the levers for adaptation at the federal level, including in the areas of public health, energy and the economy. All federal governments and ministers are involved. That is how we must prepare for the future. How and where will new disasters occur? It is difficult to predict. That is why, in my capacity as Prime Minister, I proposed, in a letter addressed to all the ministers-presidents of the country, to start a debate on the establishment of an additional solidarity mechanism in the event of exceptional calamity, which is quite imaginable in our federal system. Other federal countries, such as Germany, benefit from such a system. Today, the special financing law severely limits us in our possibilities. This is why a loan was granted to the Walloon Region, because the other possibilities do not fall within the scope of the specific measures of the special financing law. So much for the elements I want to communicate on behalf of the federal government. As the President has pointed out, I would have liked to stay and answer the questions together with my fellow ministers, but unfortunately I have to go to a European summit in Slovenia. I hope you'll excuse me for sticking to this introduction. My colleagues will take up the further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u2	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your statement. You said at the beginning that you agree with the fact that a committee should have met sooner than on 1 September, but I find that a little strange, because I asked that question myself at the beginning of August. I received the reply from the President of the Chamber on 6 August, who said that we would not be together until the beginning of September. If Parliament asks and the ministers were at their disposal, as the ministers have already confirmed, then I do not know where it went wrong. Done business doesn't happen again. In the meantime, we're early October. You have listed a number of things. A lot of things were already known. There has been a very large deployment of different services. The damage to the victims is very serious, we all know that. Minister Verlinden told us very comprehensively on 1 September. I have some specific questions for the Prime Minister. You have certainly dealt with a matter, in particular the lessons to be drawn. Now I hear there's gonna be a set of specifications for the learning board. What's the timing of that? How long will that assignment take? I also asked on 1 September to compile a list of quickwins, because I would not like us to be confronted again with abundant rain and storms in the autumn, resulting in floods somewhere in the country. I think it's very important to get quickwins out of this situation as well. I would have liked information on how the whole crisis management system will be evaluated, its timing, its major issues and whether a list of quickwins is being prepared. Belgium was not the only country affected. The Netherlands and Germany have also experienced a similar tragedy. You will probably have already thought about how we can exchange information with our neighbouring countries and how we can evaluate the floods together. I also have a question about the searches, but I know you won't be able to tell me much about them. In an article by Het Laatste Nieuws on 12 August, searches were made at the National Crisis Centre, the services of the Governor of Liège and the RMI. The searches would have taken place in the context of a judicial investigation into, I quote: "involuntary manslaughter and guilty omission." This isn't just a matter of business. There would also have been particular interest in the notifications of EFAS. Can anyone confirm that the searches referred to in the article have taken place effectively? Are there any other federal institutions where searches have taken place? Do you know about searches at regional services? Can you tell us a little bit more about the state of the investigation? I haven't read anything about it since then, but I would like to know if there have been any effective searches in those federal institutions. There are still many serious doubts and frustrations about the role of the Red Cross. Despite the good will of many volunteers and despite the great solidarity of many people who have deposited money in the common account, there remains a bitter aftertaste and, I suspect, even great image damage, both for the Red Cross-Flanders and for the Croix Rouge. I still wonder how that was possible. What missions have the Red Cross and the Croix Rouge received from the local or federal government? Were they specifically involved and did they receive specific requests for assistance? Many volunteers feel they were blocked off. They have often left for the disaster area and then had to establish on the spot that there was little coordination. What is that about, Minister Vandenbroucke? What's the cause of this? The people of the Red Cross tell me that there have certainly been coordination meetings, there has been contact with the National Crisis Centre, of which someone was present on the spot, there has been contact with Minister Verlinden's cabinet. So enough was spoken and tried to coordinate, but it went wrong with the implementation. That's what the Red Cross people tell me. Is there going to be an evaluation of the workings of the Red Cross and the Croix Rouge? Will their assignment be clarified? Could you give us a little more explanation? The people on the ground are also very curious about what else is planned with the money collected? What else will happen to those pennies? Minister Vandenbroucke, I have another question for you about the psychosocial aid to the victims. I have been on the premises a few times myself and I noticed that after the first few weeks of adrenaline and shock people were completely up and didn't know where to start first. They didn't see the future anymore and they were very worried. So there was a lot of need for psychosocial assistance. When was the psychosocial intervention plan announced? Was that at the level of the provinces or was this also federally related? Can you give an overview of what kind of help was offered? Was that through the reception centers with psychosocial managers or was that house at home? Was that help offered once or was it contacted several times? After all, some people were reluctant at first, had other concerns. Meanwhile, their need is growing. How many emergency workers have been deployed for this purpose? Were the people of the Red Cross, the Croix Rouge, also questioned about this? Minister Verlinden, several sources have told me that the fire brigades from other areas who came to help had a lot of trouble using the ASTRID network. That would be mainly because there was no information from the CPOPs about the channel they had to use. So they did scanning, so they stayed in contact with the zone and the masts of origin, which actually put a big load on the network. What just happened to the network? There would have been a lot of infrastructure damage, which is not illogical, given the nature of the disaster. Has this been resolved in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u3	Mr President, I thank the various ministers who have agreed to be present today in this long-awaited committee. The committee follows on from the exchange of views held on 1 September, during which Mrs Verlinden answered my very many questions by providing many clarifications on the federal phase and the management and coordination of relief in the first few days following the floods. However, there are still many questions and I hope that we will be able to obtain answers today, particularly on the possible elements that have malfunctioned during the management of this disaster. Parliamentary work is essential and I believe that we must look primarily at analysis and diagnosis so that we can prepare for the future. Global warming is there and we are probably going to deal with this kind of disaster repeatedly and more intensely. I believe that Belgium must be prepared to deal with this kind of event. As we have seen, some things have malfunctioned this summer and our job is to analyse but above all to be able to provide structural answers. If we need to reform some things, let's get together and reform them. My questions revolve around three axes. The first concerns pre-crisis preparedness and is mainly directed to Ms Verlinden. There is a need to develop protocols to respond effectively to crises. I am thinking in particular of the evacuation protocol, which determines how the population should be evacuated, by what means and in what way. Such protocols have been adopted in some neighbouring countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands) and can easily be found on the Internet. Some are 80 pages long, in France it is 150. I did the exercise for our country and found a fact sheet about the floods on the website of the national crisis centre. That seems a little weak to me. Minister, can you tell me about this evacuation plan? Is there one in Belgium? If so, what does he look like and who is responsible for it? If not, will there be a thorough reflection on this topic? Indeed, it is known that the evacuation was a black spot in crisis management in July. I would also like information on the level of training and preparation of our communes, but also of our provinces, for the evacuation of the population. If we do not have a plan as such, we do have a federal emergency plan. Clearly, it should be improved for a future crisis such as the one we have experienced. As we know, protocols are used to predict, to have a certain level of risk management. In this case, the crisis has been unprecedented. At some point, we will have to reassess our models in order to be better prepared for the future. My second focus is on the actions that were taken when the crisis occurred. A black spot was that of communication. I have already had an opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Verlinden, but I would like to ask you a few questions. Thus, I would like to hear from you about the choice made as to how communication would take place, during crisis management, with the various actors and levels of power. Rapid and seamless communication with the population is obviously necessary when this type of event occurs. That is why I would like to come back to you about BE-Alert. Indeed, I sincerely believe that there is a problem at this level and at the D5 level. Can you let me know how BE-Alert actually works on the ground in the event of a crisis like the one we have experienced? How are municipalities informed about the functioning of the system? How can they trigger BE-Alert? How are they trained in its use? These questions apply to the other levels of power, but the local level is the first to react in the event of a crisis? This brings me to the ASTRID part which has already been discussed by my colleague. It is also up to me that various communication problems have arisen. It seems essential to me that the ASTRID network can function optimally. That is why I would like you to tell us if any problems have actually been encountered? If so, why? Has ASTRID infrastructure been damaged during the floods? Are these problems solved today? I would now like to address Minister Vandenbroucke on urgent medical assistance. I will not go back to what my colleague said about the Red Cross. I'm joining her questions. Nevertheless, I would like you to let me know how this urgent medical assistance was deployed in the first few hours after the disaster and what your assessment of this deployment is. I mean, I'm gonna move on to the next one, to the reconstruction. It'll be my last axis. The material damage was significant, including in the head of the police zones and in the relief areas. In this regard, Ms. Verlinden may have an overall view of the losses. In any case, I would like her to give us a full report this afternoon. I would also like to know whether the federal state is considering aid to equip areas that may be affected in order to fill – or not – the part that insurance would not cover. So here's a big first round. If necessary, I'll come back later. I leave the floor to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u4	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister, following the intervention of my colleague Chanson, I would like to deal more specifically with the question of Defence and its action during this dramatic and unprecedented natural disaster. This has already been discussed in a previous committee with the Minister, who recently provided a fairly detailed answer to a written question I asked her. I think it is useful in this joint committee to clarify certain things. Before that, I would like once again to thank all the relief services, be it civil protection, firefighters, police, civilians and volunteers involved, as well as the soldiers who took part in the operations. In this regard, I received many testimonies from members of the military who told me of some frustration: while they wanted to help in the early hours of the event, they were not ordered by the staff and were therefore confined to the barracks, turning in circles. I therefore wonder about the chain of command. Is this chain clear? Have there been any delays and why? Did all requests follow the path planned? It is also up to me that several municipalities complain about the disparity in aid between them. Some seem very pleased with the work of the military. We're glad to hear that. Others tell me about a lack of human and material resources and a certain disorganization that led them, for example, to have to explain the situation every morning to military personnel who only stayed a day before changing their assignment. I am also told that several of them arrived there without receiving any orders. They therefore did not know what to do and sought orders from civilians. Can you explain to me on what basis and how the aid between the municipalities was distributed? Why did Trooz see 195 soldiers passing and Pepinster only 82, for example? How was this choice made? In your written reply, you point out that "all the requested actions that are in Defence's capacity have been granted". What applications were refused? What is the proportion of applications granted and applications refused? What is the match between the sometimes derisory means of defence and the expressed needs? As we recalled two weeks ago, she did what she could. Did the Defence use staves to find out the situation in the municipalities that were without electricity and electricity? How was this organized? With what results? Here's for my first few questions. I am following them because I do not want to exceed the speaking time per group of fifteen minutes. My second set of questions concerns the preparation of Defence for this kind of disaster. We know that aid to the Nation has never been a priority of the previous government. That's a certainty. Unfortunately, however, the future may prove that we will have to deal more and more with such extreme events. Therefore, beyond the overall assessment of flood response, have a comprehensive assessment and analysis of Defence's response been initiated and completed? What lessons have been or will be learned for the future? What strengths and weaknesses have been identified? What do you intend to do to maintain our strengths and fill our weaknesses in responding to this type of crisis? Indeed, as the Prime Minister once again pointed out, adaptation to climate change obviously also requires preparation, including the preparation of Defence. I am thinking, for example, of training and the acquisition of equipment. Are specific training related to natural disasters with Civil Protection, firefighters and the police envisaged to deal with what is likely to happen again, whether in our territory or in other fields of operation? How, with hindsight, is the collaboration and coordination that took place between the Red Cross, Civil Protection, firefighters and police during and after the floods assessed? With regard to equipment, equipment has been found to be inoperable at times, particularly ships and helicopters. Have you identified the equipment we would have needed? Is there a plan to strengthen our capacity in this area? Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to know the impact of the privatization of certain tasks such as kitchens and mobile bridges on the timing and quality of the Defence response to these floods. Why did the distribution of food by the Defence only begin on 22 July 2021, three days after the evacuations were stopped? Is this related to privatization and therefore to the loss of know-how and the lack of equipment within Defence itself? In short, we know that the military did everything they could with what they had, and that is a certainty. However, was Defence sufficiently prepared for this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u5	Mr President, it is very important that we learn from this, of course everyone here thinks, but we also need to learn lessons in terms of communication to the people. The National Crisis Cell website provides information on floods and what needs to be done in the context of floods. Madam Minister, have you already instructed your services to review this communication in the light of what we now know? There are, after all, issues on which we can ask questions. What to do in a flood? If you need help from the fire department, make an application via the digital counter. Since the Internet was flattened, it is very painful that such things are still on there. We need to think this through. That communication is on the website, but it is about passive government communication and we really need more active government communication about crises. I would like to call on the learning committee to look into this as well. We need to look at how we can better reach the population through local authorities and provinces, so that people know, if we need to evacuate, what needs to be done. We can continue to ask questions such as how it is that the fire department could not evacuate the people at the time when the water was already house-high and people had to hide on their roofs, but a question we should ask above all is how it is that there has not been evacuated beforehand, that that information has not been passed on. The Walloon Committee of Inquiry will also look into this. How is it that the information provided by the European Flood Awareness System has not been passed on sufficiently? But also, how come this didn't set off alarm bells at the federal level? That is also an important question. Madam Secretary, are there any plans to conduct large-scale evacuation exercises? One can write a playbook, but it is only when one can put it into effect and see how it works in practice that one can learn from it. And I'm sure it's necessary. Finally, the following may also be a task for the learning board. We need to look at how we deal with insurance contracts. We are now seeing the problem of the classic way insurers work, and we are getting money to rebuild our house. In the future, we should not even think about innovative systems, innovative contracts with the insurance sector, so that houses can be built in a different place. However, this seems to me to be a very complex issue, involving many actors and governments, but we do have the task of examining it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u6	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for accepting our invitation to hold this joint committee. First of all, all the actors on the ground who acted during the terrible floods that took place in July should be congratulated: the military, the firefighters, the civil protection officers, all the volunteers who mobilized across the country to help the victims. We have indeed witnessed a fine example of solidarity with our federal state. The Prime Minister spoke of this decision to grant a €1.2 billion loan to the Walloon Region. My group welcomes this decision. We understand that the possibility of seeking greater solidarity is subject to legal constraints (referred to in his presentation), but of course we support the idea of setting up a solidarity fund to deal with natural disasters that would take place in the territory of our country. It's also time to take stock. The one on which I would like to return as soon as I can is that of the reform of the Civil Protection implemented by the predecessor of our Minister of the Interior, Minister Jambon, under the previous legislature. It is a reform that I have personally fought with my group for months, and in the end it did not take long to draw negative consequences. This reform has severely impoverished Civil Protection: in the past, six barracks were covering the territory of our country. This number has been reduced from six to two, which are also not well located at the geographical level, since they are mainly in the north-western part of the country and the distances to be travelled in the event of a potential disaster are almost two hours away. In the present case, the floods occurred mainly in the region of Liège. The crisis was not bad, but it could have been elsewhere where too much distance would have been seen in addition to the decrease in the number of staff in our barracks. Madam Minister of the Interior, as you said, all the Civil Protection officers were involved. They did a great job. But there are far fewer of them than before, and that is an inevitable fact. The number of professionals has been reduced by more than 30% and we have lost hundreds of volunteers because those who joined the Ghlin barracks no longer train at the Crisnea or Brasschaat barracks because of their remote location. We therefore have a demand at the PS group level: to come back with the creation of advanced posts throughout our country. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. You also said that a study had been commissioned for an evaluation of civil protection reform. You gave us six months to get the first results. I think it's a long time. I have already told you this in a previous committee. I think the study, we had it live. We have seen the results of the reform and its consequences. For me, we do not need six months of reflection to draw the consequences and to come with a new proposal for reform that is moving backwards and that is moving forward, and that is improving the coverage of our territory at the level of Civil Protection. There is also, no doubt, a reflection to be carried out, in correlation with the presence of Defence barracks on our territory. There are certainly synergies to be created. But for this Defence component, I will pass the floor to my colleague Christophe Lacroix.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u7	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their presence and for the quality of their answers provided at each stage of the procedure. I would like to speak both as a Member of Parliament and as a mayor of a disaster-stricken municipality. There's another present, Daniel Bacquelaine. I have colleagues who are either aldermen or communal councillors, in communes that have been affected. So I had to coordinate for a moment a commune where, although not mentioned by the Prime Minister, we still deplored a victim. I have been in communal politics since 1988. This is the first time that, following such catastrophic floods, a person dies in my commune. That is to say, these floods were truly abnormal. And it is when abnormality is present that one realizes that one needs, even more than usual, the presence of the State. However, Madam Minister of Defence, you inherited from your predecessor, Mr Vandeput, a dispersed army "like puzzle" - as Michel Audiard would have said - so much that aid to the nation, that is, service to the citizen, had gone blue in the strategic vision of your predecessor. Since you took up your duties, you've been trying to close the gaps. More than that, you want, thanks in particular to the support of the experts who recommend it, to mandate a new strategic vision where assistance to citizens and the nation is inscribed in gold ink. I would like you to share with us the steps involved in putting this strategic vision in order. I hope that this will succeed, unlike that of your predecessor and the Minister of the Interior N-VA Jambon, who also reformed the Civil Protection. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Emergency Preparedness did not work together to achieve a balance that would allow effective action to be taken in the service of citizens. I therefore invite you, together with your colleague in charge of the Interior, to look at how Civil Protection and Defence can have a shared vision on helping citizens. The second question is the chain of command. I was able to realize that, indeed, this one was being fluctuated. Without the special relations I had with certain corps chiefs, I would not have obtained such rapid assistance from the army. That is not the case, even if it is not your responsibility, of course. I think at some point, at the staff, or even at another level, there was a flu. I know your intentions in terms of decentralization and your willingness to give provincial commanders more autonomy. I would also like you to share with me your vision for the empowerment of provincial commanders, particularly with regard to assistance to the nation. Since I am also a member of the Committee on the Economy, I will speak to the person who will respond to me in terms of insurance. First, I received another testimony yesterday from my municipality. One person is affected with five children. The insurance company has still not responded to his calls and this person finds himself without heating. It's early October. At the federal government level, could there not be pressure on the sector, and on Assuralia in particular, to make assistance to citizens a real priority? I know that the companies are overburdened, but it remains true that a little empathy, a little humanity and, above all, efficiency would be such as to reassure the people affected. Finally, I will return to the overall framework. Indeed, insurance interventions, even if the Disaster Fund has been regionalized, are determined by a federal law with a limit of intervention, on the basis of a calculation. I am not going to go into detail, so it means that at some point insurance companies can intervene up to a certain limit. Beyond this limit, it is up to the Regions to intervene. Fortunately, thanks to the negotiating capacity of the Walloon government, insurance had to intervene twice as much as the limits imposed by law. Our position as socialists is as follows. First of all, the mechanism must be reviewed. There is a need for greater solidarity between policyholders and insurance and for greater involvement of insurers in flooding. Will you support the effort which will certainly require the involvement of the Regions, in particular through an action by the Minister of Economy, who has already consulted the National Bank of Belgium and set up a working group to examine the possibility of raising the limit for insurance intervention? I would also like to be appeased in the face of our fellow citizens and all those who are still in distress today and who will be so for many weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u8	I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by simply reminding you that there is an urgent need. Indeed, as my colleague Christophe Lacroix said, there is an urgent need because the nightmare is not over for thousands of victims who are still in an apocalyptic situation. This emergency indeed requires resources for the victims and for those who come to their aid today. Among these, there are police areas. My colleague Julie Song referred to it, the police areas were also affected. Fortunately, no victims to be deplored among our police officers, but substantial material damage, especially for the Secova police zone, which lost no fewer than 14 vehicles. Minister, are you considering an exceptional federal allocation to re-equip these areas with equipment as a matter of urgency, so that they can carry out their protection and support missions to the public? Minister Vandenbroucke, those who extend their hand, are also general practitioners. We have already mentioned this together in committee, many of them have been personally victims of these floods and are therefore affected in their profession as well. However, we know that we need them on the front line to ensure the health care and support of the victims, and those who will unfortunately be ill in the coming months, as can happen to every citizen. What assistance has the federal authority provided to support general practitioners? What is the current situation? What measures are in place to ensure that the provision of care continues to be present for the population of the affected areas? At the medical level and at the level of accompaniment, which says victim says psychological shock and terrible damage to mental health. These people need to be handed to them, to be there to listen to them and to offer them psychosocial support. The Walloon Region has done so, notably by setting up mobile teams. What about federal initiatives in this mental health support? Unfortunately, the health consequences of floods will continue for a long time to come. How can we ensure effective, long-term monitoring of the health of those affected? Have any recommendations been made to caregivers? I will conclude by saying that we are in an emergency. We're also in the foresight. We are all here, in this context, to learn lessons and draw conclusions. To draw lessons is probably also to have a global reflection. It is necessary with a terrible obsession, as has often been said: to provide maximum coverage throughout our territory to help them quickly, in a coordinated and effective manner. This has already been mentioned in other dramatic contexts, also in the conclusions of the Special Commission. And in a large number of recommendations, we have referred to the need for a rethought, coordinated crisis centre and a cross-cutting approach to the implementation of actions for our citizens. I will not be able to conclude without mentioning the long-term stake – we are aware – in the fight against global warming. This struggle will necessarily involve awareness-raising and action. Indeed, we must, above all, support those who are on the front line. It is generally the least disadvantaged who pay the heaviest price of this global warming and, above all, its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u9	Mr President, I would like to add something that I believe is important about insurance. As far as waste disposal is concerned, the cities and towns affected by the disaster took action very quickly to clear the streets. In doing so, they have done the job of the insurance companies who have to remove the waste themselves or make containers available to the victims. The public authorities have fulfilled the role of insurance companies and have thus made them make a lot of savings. This additional burden has been partially offset by the Walloon Region and the Federal Government, but this remains the public authorities that have paid. Is there any reflection or dialogue with Assuralia so that the public authorities can recover the money they spent on waste disposal in the first few days after the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at meetings such as this, I always have a hard feeling. I don't know if Susanne Ohlen will tell you anything, but whoever doesn't ring a bell, that's the German journalist who gave a report at the end of July in Bad Münstereifel in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. For the sake of her report, the lady in question covered herself with mud to make things seem even more realistic, as if the reality was not yet bad enough. So don't let us organise another round of 'I think it's all worse than the others' today in an attempt to encourage the people affected. I think it is fair to say that everyone here, without exception, feels bad enough and has been seriously affected by what has happened. With a round of sympathy and sympathy from politicians, the victims do not buy eggs. It will be important to provide the questions here today with a real answer and to learn the necessary lessons from the flood. There must be an evaluation of what has happened, and that is something in which our country and Belgian politics do not always excel. An objective assessment of the facts is often absent in our country. I had a question for the Prime Minister in that context, but I assume that the unity and indivisibleity of the government will answer them. I wondered whether he had already started such an evaluation and, if so, what his initial conclusions were. How does he see this crisis situation? How does he estimate management? How did he experience all that? By that I mean what he noticed, what the government has noticed and what the government thinks is likely to be improved. That is a forward-looking question. Indeed, a thorough analysis and evaluation of crisis policy is more pressing than ever, so that each individual service on that basis knows who is doing what, who is responsible and what can and can be expected of each other. This brings us to the coordination of crisis management in the event of a disaster. My contacts with a number of Flemish firefighters showed that coordination on the ground was virtually non-existent. While in the disaster area having and keeping the people literally washed away, in some places full fire brigades were held off because heated discussions arose about who was or should be in charge. You should be imagining that. You've lost everything and meanwhile the fire chief is worrying about the number of stripes on his sleeve. You must imagine the surprise of the fire brigades who were on the road for hours to offer help. Such a thing defies not only them but also my imagination and your imagination. Colleagues, as far as you have not yet done so, I would advise you to speak to the corps that had come from far and wide to help people and to listen to their stories. Harness in times of crisis, I find that incomprehensible. Madam Secretary of the Interior, why is the chain of command of the fire brigade not clear? Why is it not communicated in times of crisis? Following on, are there or are there not concrete plans for a reform of the fire department and the possible creation of a central command? Next question you probably expected already. What means are you going to make available for that? However, the problem may be deeper. In my view, the problem of a central command is broader than the fire department. Based on the current structure, it is almost immediately clear where the problem lies or at least a significant part of the problem. If a disaster is confined to a municipality, the mayor is responsible. If a disaster is confined to a province, that responsibility goes to the governor. And if a disaster spans several provinces, then Home Affairs and the Crisis Center take over. In that structure, the governor is often the weak link. The governor has an important responsibility in managing a crisis, but at the level of the province the necessary competences often appear to be lacking. That is not surprising either, because the post of governor has been the ideal outlet for years to drop, let us be honest, guided politicians or to thank politicians for their service. If a governor already has a role to play as a crisis manager, that must be a clear and objective criterion for us to be eligible for this position. A governor who fails to do so must be able to bear the consequences as far as we are concerned. And that is virtually impossible in the current context, because the only competence that is now expected of a governor, in most cases having the right colour, is the right party card. The appointment of governor is therefore still a political compromise in the facts. And so there are hardly any sanctions. Unless the Land concerned would resign in the event of, for example, maladministration. But that is, of course, almost unthinkable in practice. This also applies to the specific case of the Governor of Liège. He was on vacation on the fatal dates. But even when he heard the news of the disaster on the radio, it still didn't occur to him to take control of the crisis management himself. No, he left that to the acting governor of Liege, Mrs Delcourt, while he himself waited in Grâce-Hollogne. Am I now the only one asking questions about Liège's governor Jamar's priorities? Does it not occur to anyone to point this man out his priorities, his responsibilities and his negligence? Have you already urged the Länder to remind Governor Jamar of his responsibilities and to sanction him as well? Can you insist on dismissal, Madam Secretary, for maladministration or for negligence? I don't think that's far-fetched. However, it is not all trouble and torment: a bright spot in these dark moments of one and a half months ago, were our soldiers. Like thousands of others, they have done their utmost. Unless I'm mistaken, 2,000 men have been deployed who have been ready from day one to carry out rescues and evacuations, fill sandbags, deliver field and other beds, clean up debris, transport food, set up field kitchens, coordinate food distribution, pump water and even clean up. The valuable work done by our military is almost too much to mention. I do not think it can be sufficiently emphasised either. The historic savings rounds, which have been heavily affected by this disaster, have also had an impact. First, there was a lack of emergency kitchens. Secondly, our country no longer has sufficient knowledge or resources to build relatively simple structures, such as pontoon bridges, because that task has been outsourced to private partners. This, of course, makes it impossible to intervene quickly and provide the necessary infrastructure in times of crisis, as in the case of floods. All these things contribute to the image of the Defense Department. I'm addressing the Secretary of Defense. Taking into account the resources available to our military, they have done a good job. Everyone agrees on that. However, you know that these resources are insufficient. Filling those gaps with the Defense Department is on your priority list? Will you provide additional resources for this aspect of military missions? The victims of the flood had to feel that our government had everything under control and acted efficiently, organized and structured. I'm afraid that's where the shoe was pinching and still pinching. The various services of Civil Protection, the fire brigade, the Red Cross and the Defence Department were all far too indifferent. So I do understand the fact that there were whispers here and there that we were, so to speak, faster and more organized in Afghanistan than in Verviers. Although our military have tried to assist the nation with their limited resources, can it not be the intention for our military apparatus to become some sort of Civil Protection 2.0? When the need is high, the assistance from the Defense Department to the nation is of course a matter of course of course. Should we not, however, note that defence has suffered indirectly or even directly from the savings made in civil protection by the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon? There can be no unpunished cut in the means of civil protection. The number of barracks of Civil Protection cannot be reduced without impunity from six to two. You can't go unpunished, you can have 26 employees out of 300 on permanence, even 16 at night. This would mean that civil protection would not be able to take on its central role in crisis policy. The reason for this is insufficient resources, insufficient immediate operational manpower and too large geographical spread to be deployable quickly and efficiently. What role will civil protection play in the future? What initiatives will you take to support this role in the future? Mrs. Dedonder, how do you see the role of Defense in disasters such as those of mid-July? Is that a supportive role? To what extent are you prepared to provide funds for this in your budget which is not too luxurious? The victims are the most important part of this regrettable history. The aid was particularly slow. Victims had to wait hours for the first signs of help. After that, it took weeks before any organisation was involved. For example, the Red Cross only managed to provide the food supply after a week and a half, and then only partially. The victims for too long depended on the help of volunteers, with often well-intentioned but often also totally uncoordinated initiatives. One example: in the aftermath of the flood, I saw from my own municipality Buggenhout caravans leaving cars and trucks with collected relief goods. They did that on good luck, because they hadn't caught anyone who could tell them if, where and when they could help. The general government was and remained completely incommunicado for them. That raises the question of whether there is anything like a contingency plan. And if so, will these contingency plans be regularly reviewed or updated? I'm afraid to ask if they've ever been tested. In this context, I wonder how it is possible that even informing the population has run out of control, although this government is rather proud of its communication. But perhaps that should not surprise us if we know, as Mr Ingels pointed out, that even the Astrid network had connection problems, which may have contributed to the lack of coordination and communication of the government. Perhaps the ministers could clarify this? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen little attention to this issue so far is the people with disabilities. It seems obvious to me that there would be a plan of action to help people with disabilities in the event of a disaster. People with disabilities, such as less mobile people, should first be able to be helped as far as we are concerned. I have some questions about that. Is there any provision for resources and people to help citizens with disabilities? Do the contingency plans take people with disabilities into account? If not, which one of you will take the responsibility to ensure that this is the case in the future? I hope you will not all refer to Minister Lalieux who is not here today. Have measures been taken to speed up the replacement of specific devices such as wheelchairs, custom beds or custom cars? I ask that because the treatment of applications in the insurance for the replacement of such a modified material usually drags on for quite a long time. As far as insurance is concerned, there are still a number of problems. Thus, according to Mr Chapelle, he is responsible for the finances in Verviers, one in two of the affected tenants is notinsured for his estate. Therefore, these victims cannot rely on insurance or on the disaster fund. Nor will the Walloon Government's intention to compensate those people be any help in the short term. What is your position, ladies and gentlemen, on making fire insurance compulsory? Is the government prepared to investigate such a slope, possibly in consultation with the sector? Another problem is the nasty figures who are now standing up in the insurance sector as counter-experts and whose people are at risk of being victimized. As a result, not only is their file delayed, but they also risk losing some of their compensation. Is the government prepared to take measures together with the sector so that such matters do not arise in the future? Mr President, if I may ask for a few more minutes, because I also have a number of questions for the Minister for Health. I know you're very generous. Mr Minister, you know that infections, pathogenic bacteria, parasites and so on come to light in the event of floods, because different forms of water mix. Has the public been informed about this, or should they be looking for that information themselves? Has there been a disturbance of certain symptoms or diseases? I know that aviQ reported respiratory complaints. I'm also thinking about sewer worker disease. Minister, I would like to know whether and how these matters are being followed up. The note of the High Health Council states that special problems arise for vegetable gardens, fields and pastures. Sludge samples must be taken to detect the problems. Has the sampling and analysis done yet? What are the results of that? If not, what happens in anticipation? I have the same question for well water. Cleaning with chlorine products may cause carcinogens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u11	Mr Creyelman, I am going to interrupt you, because every group has 10 to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the best tribute to the victims and the best respect that can be shown to them are undoubtedly due to the way in which we will be able to improve the handling of a tragedy of this magnitude. Today we must take on the need to improve our ability to react to a tragedy of unprecedented magnitude, but which may require a reformulation of our way of thinking about rescue in our country. I can tell you that, throughout this period, I have only met people who have a complete desire to do well. I have only met with people who want to provide the most effective assistance possible at all levels. So I am not at all in an adversarial process, far from it, but I realize that, overall, we have not been able to react in the most effective way. I would like to share things between the flood period itself and the post-critical period. These are two completely different things that need to be distinguished. There are, first of all, the first hours, which are fundamental. Then comes the setting up of the reaction, of the aid to the victims and to all those who, for many, already had little and lost everything. The first few hours, for starters. This is actually Wednesday for many of the municipalities concerned. As early as 11 a.m., evacuations were referred to at the provincial centres. They are set up in some communes from 2 p.m., in other communes a little later. The problem is that we did not have the equipment to carry out these evacuations, nor – I dare say – a culture of rescue. In some countries, it took disasters – I am thinking of Vaison-la-Romane in France – to establish a culture of rescue. I must note that we do not have it in our country. There are 172 to 374 military personnel a day. But we needed thousands of people in the first few hours, ready to act immediately when we decided on an evacuation! The same applies to boats – even though it was said that the current was too strong: in the first few hours, there was no need for boats! There was a lack of speed of action. We must assume it collectively. There was not a willingness not to do well, on the contrary, everyone wanted to do well but there was a lack of speed of action. When we talk about the federal crisis centre on July 15, the play was played on July 15. This speed of action, we had to be able to trigger it right away. We are now talking about civil protection reforms or relief zones. You can reform as long as you want, we can have a lot of fun in the reforms. What matters is whether or not we have the appropriate equipment for this type of situation. We are in a country with valleys in Wallonia and with a competition between land and sea in Flanders and this means that we will necessarily face the problem of water. It's obvious! Do you have this will to put in place an action plan that gives the capacity for rapid action? Is assistance to the Army Nation able to cope with a disaster of this magnitude? Will the reserve of equipment available to us in the future allow us to deal with this type of disaster if it is to be renewed? I hear helicopters couldn't fly in the rain. But can't all helicopters in the world fly in the rain? I'm not a technician, I'm asking the question. Is our equipment really suitable? Is there not a very important effort to make in relation to this concept? Is our multiplication of aid structures (civil protection, relief zones, army) still reasonable? I understand that Civil Protection is the federal level and that the relief zones are the local and regional level, but does it still make any sense? Of course, I am not fully aware of the functioning of these structures. I wonder. The multiplication of relief zones in the same province still makes sense. Is there not some sort of authoritarian decision to be taken at certain times in relation to this? I think that the first six hours have been fateful and it is during the first six hours that we must measure whether we have a capacity in our country to develop a culture of rescue in relation to the need for rapid action within a few hours of the outbreak of a disaster. This is the real question even if, of course, we will not change what happened. It is the best way to pay tribute to the victims and to respect the memory of the victims. It is to put in place for the future this culture of rescue and this speed of action. Then, during the post-critical period, I think that everyone has given the maximum and I too would like to thank the military, the Civil Protection, the fire department, the psychosocial aid, all those who have intervened in this post-critical period. We have been able to benefit from a very good solidarity, first of all citizens, I believe, and we also expect institutional solidarity. We support the measures taken by the government, including the loan to the Walloon Region. However, I wonder whether it is ethical to levy any tax on expenses that would never have occurred if the disaster had not taken place. I'm asking the question. Even if VAT is reduced, is it still ethical? Reconstruction would not have taken place if the disaster had not taken place, and the revenues, the taxes that would be imposed on the reconstruction expenses, would not have existed. It is the local authorities that have to deal, in particular, with the victims. I understand that they will benefit from a 6% VAT reduction, but that is still 6%. As regards the reconstruction by local authorities of public infrastructure which will ensure that our valleys do not become ghost valleys - there is a citizen's objective in relation to reconstruction - is it ethical to levy taxes on what it will cost? I'm asking the question. I do not expect a formal answer today, but it seems to me that it makes sense to ask. Finally, I will insist on the psychological trauma of this disaster for all those who have experienced it, but also for all those who have suffered it. I believe that a large-scale plan must be developed, Mr. Minister of Health, in terms of psychosocial assistance and care for all those who have not always recovered their full psychological capacities. I meet disaster victims who tell me that every night they relive the disaster. That's the reality! We've got to get some help going on this. The various levels are concerned, of course. We have received psychosocial support from the Region, the federal government and all levels of government. However, this concept is important if we are to restore everyone's ability to live after this disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u13	Mr President, I shall take the same time as your colleague from Vlaams Belang. That was ten minutes, so I think I should get that time, too. I have been asking for this joint committee for weeks, Mr President. First of all, and in relation to the discussions we have had in the Committee on the Interior and Defence on certain specific points, I would like to reiterate my thanks to all those who, at the level of the interior, have shown solidarity with the affected communes. I have already said that we have received a great deal of help, including from the federal police, to secure the perimeter in our city of Eupen. That was very important. I should also like to thank the Defence for the concern we have enjoyed in the municipality of Eupen. Like Mr Bacquelaine, I do not think there are bad intentions. However, we note forms of dysfunction and inconsistencies in crisis management. I have already explained myself on this subject, particularly with regard to the multiplicity of crisis centres. It must be noted that many mayors of my region felt – and were – alone in the face of the responsibilities they had to take with regard to evacuation, having not obtained answers from the crisis centres at the provincial, regional and federal level. The responsibilities were enormous! In Eupen, for example, we had to evacuate more than 2,700 people, without even having the possibility of obtaining the approval we needed in principle. This is unacceptable! It therefore seems important to me to ask the question of greater coherence in this respect. I agree again with Mr Bacquelaine: the idea is to know how we can – in a future that I do not wish to be near – help better and more effectively. This aid must not necessarily go through a multitude of channels; it must lie in the effectiveness of the means available to us. I take this opportunity to make the transition to the opportunities of Defence and to the priority that our Minister of Defence has put on the agenda for this Parliament: assistance to the Nation. In my view, things must be able to be done more quickly and efficiently, perhaps with more human resources, but also by bringing together more coherent material means. For example, how is it possible that, when we request it, we will not be able to benefit adequately from the expertise of Defence in the provision of certain bridges? This is not a reproach, it is a fact that I believe the public authorities must be able to provide answers. We also have, in my view, very important challenges, including the resurability of certain goods. I explain to myself: it is not uncommon to find that, in relation to damaged property, whether public or private, certain assurances are reluctant – once the decision to rebuild on the same site has been taken – to the idea of reinsuring this property, because they believe that there is a certain danger. At the federal level, there are not enough guarantees to ensure the risk of this natural disaster. Should we not also consider what initiatives can be put in place? France, for example, has already set up a fund for national calamities for several years. Do we not, at this level, have the possibility of inserting this kind of reflection? There was also talk of this waste story. In this regard, Malik Ben Achour is quite right. It is the municipalities that have replaced the duty of insurance, because of a need for health. Would it not be possible or conceivable, at some point, to make use of this public aid granted by the Regions? In the end, they reimbursed the municipalities for this waste disposal service. This is also a question that needs to be asked. Others referred to the material damage suffered by certain police areas. How do you plan to quickly replace this need for perfectable equipment for a police area? This question will have to be addressed, and an answer to it seems to me to be very important. Mr Vandenbroucke, like Mr Bacquelaine, I would like to stress strongly the need for psychological assistance to the victims, in the broad sense, of these floods. Minister, I think that is very important! I speak to you consciously in English so that you may hear me well. It is essential to have a coherent strategy with our universities and the Communities to help those victims who do not necessarily ask for them spontaneously, given the availability of these aids and the immediate need for them. It is still very important to take this into account and to develop a better strategy for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the ministers for their presence in committee. I should also like to thank, as you have all done, everyone who has been active on the ground. Dear ministers, you were united. The people were in solidarity. The emergency services were also in solidarity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, out of respect for the ministers present here, and for all of you, I will confine myself to a number of questions so that I can stay within the time. With regard to the reconstruction, the CD&V would like to repeat the question of whether the government is prepared to engage with the European Union, to consider whether a reduced VAT rate could also be introduced for the reconstruction of public infrastructure. As part of the infrastructure work, Minister Verlinden announced last month and last week that the federal government will submit an application for intervention to the European Solidarity Fund. In this way, up to EUR 185 million could be obtained for the restoration of infrastructure. Does the government have any idea of the time limit within which the European Commission will be able to deal with the question? If there were a positive response from the European Commission, will the money be distributed among the different levels of competence? Has the government already determined how the distribution key would be shaped where appropriate? In particular, there has already been a wide-ranging debate on aid at the committee meeting of 1 September 2021. Mrs Verlinden, you have announced that you will set up a learning committee. That was confirmed by the Prime Minister just now. That committee will have to evaluate the disaster response in the context of the flood. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister also indicated that Parliament could possibly be involved in the committee's interim report. Is that still the intention? Madam Minister, can you give us a final update on the tender procedure for the learning committee? We believe that it is advisable to await the conclusions of the Committee's experts before taking any urgent steps at this stage. I am already hearing all kinds of decisions from a lot of experts in one direction or another. For us, it is important that we seize the moment to review the existing structures once again and see how we can seize the disaster and learn long-term lessons. Now Wallonia has been hit hard, but tomorrow it may be another region in our country. At that point we will not be able to afford to support the other region in the country. At that point, we'll have to show that we've learned something. I do not know that things need to be reformed, as has been said here. We do know that a number of things will have to be strengthened. I am thinking here of the areas of aid and coordination within these areas. Mr Baquelaine also said it. There is no need for us to reform again. Especially as far as civil protection is concerned, we are absolutely not convinced of that. Also the fire colonels are not convinced that there is a need for reform. We are told that last Friday the Council of Ministers decided to pay EUR 850,000 for the delivery of meals to the inhabitants of the affected areas. On the ground, however, there are still signs that there are major problems with food distribution. Apparently, there is also a growing supply problem. The federal support cell is involved in coordinating food distribution, but in the long term the Red Cross should take over. Defence was also deployed, as we know, but that role is gradually being reduced. Can the Ministers explain who is currently responsible for what in the field of food distribution? Who takes on what tasks? How is it ensured that all residents who need food distribution can get it effectively? Are there enough people on site to deliver the meals? Do people have to come to the supply stations themselves? That is not possible for everyone. I don't know if you've read the report from the voluntary organizations that have been gathered. What I remember most from that is that they don't attack anyone directly. They only come up with ideas and tips for the future. Maybe we should do the same here in the hemisphere. I remember, for example, that they were very satisfied with Defence, which apparently we are not always. On the other hand, there is clearly something wrong with the relationship between the Red Cross and la Croix Rouge. That's very clear. That is the only negative point they have raised in relation to what has happened in recent months. I hear people complaining about BE-Alert. That is a fantastic system that was introduced after the train crash in Wetteren. There was already such a system there that worked very well to evacuate thousands of people. BE-Alert works well in municipalities where the mayors promote it and ensure that all their residents subscribe to it. In these municipalities one goes door to door to convince the people. Minister Vandenbroucke, what was and is still being done by the government to minimise health risks as much as possible? Was there sufficient attention in crisis management to this aspect, including the prevention of the spread of COVID-19? Are these potential health risks sufficiently taken into account? What psychological guidance was provided? Can the victims still make use of this? Or have other initiatives been taken in the meantime for this psychological guidance? How was primary care organised in the affected areas? Many general practitioners, pharmacists and dentists were also affected by the floods. Finally, how can we avoid the problematic accessibility of basic medicines in the future? Minister Khattabi proposed to create an OCAD Climate. You guys know anything about that? Have the first steps been taken for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u15	Mr President, the Prime Minister said that he regretted that he could not come to Parliament to explain himself. This places all the more weight on the decision taken by the parliamentary bodies not to convene a committee as soon as the holiday returns. I would remind you that the year before, the whole Parliament was called for small fights in the North Sea! These are the worst floods since the Second World War and... nothing! No discussion! What's behind that? Let's minimize it? We don't want a debate when it's hot? You heard him, the government wanted to come! This gives the overall framework of the problem in Belgium. Before I address the issue of the crisis, I wanted to tell you that the situation is still just as scandalous. In one of the richest countries in the world, it is a shame that people still live in such a situation! We are not just discussing July 13, 14 and 15, we are talking about two months later! I'll give you a few testimonials that have come to me. Giuseppe of Trooz tells us: "Raoul, tell all these ministers what my reality is. I've been paying my insurance premiums all my life. Floods devastated my house. The house was destabilized. My garage was taken away, walls were cracked. The town even came to report a potential collapse of my laundry room. The wave that hit my house moved the chassis. My fuel tank was badly damaged. But for the insurer, it's not a big deal. He just told me he'd take over the refund of my garage and a couple of toolholes. Who are we laughing at?" Giuseppe, you're right. We don't care about the people! How is it possible that in a modern state like Belgium people would ask such questions two months later? Florian of the Ourth Valley tells us: "I had four meters of water from the threshold of my house. I'd like to clean up my house as soon as possible, but it's impossible at the moment. I need to reheat the heating system. We're waiting for insurance money. I currently live in a single room with my companion and our dog. Yet, on August 9, the expert came. Since then, I've been waiting. I wake up regularly, I can't hear anything. Despite the promises, there's still nothing. My accommodation is paid by insurance for three months. But then, if I can't go home, I don't know how I'm gonna do it. I have to redo my flooring, the kitchen, the bathroom, the bedroom. With what money? I don't understand why I don't have answers." Two months later, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this situation. How can we accept this? The goal today is to go to the bottom of the file. Why are we still in such a situation today? That is why we have proposed, together with the PTB, that we can organise a committee of inquiry. I must confess that I still do not understand why it is only in Wallonia that there is a commission of inquiry. It was true that Mr. Di Rupo had to be forced a little. At first, it wasn't hot. We pushed him with the PTB. Finally, there is a commission of inquiry in the Walloon Region, but there is no commission of inquiry at the federal level. I don't understand. Unless everyone already assumes that the federal government is quiet, it's a few small mistakes, and it's only the Walloon Region. But no one can defend this here. That is why it is a pity to have only an exchange of views today that will not oblige all questions to be answered, which will allow the ministers to answer what they want; and not to make a committee of inquiry. There's really something. I don't understand what we want to hide. Frankly, I don't understand. Let's get to the bottom of the files. I talked to you today about the insurance problem. They must be forced to intervene. They have made billions of profits: 15 billion in eight years. They can and must pay. The federal government must intervene for that. We can't stay on the balcony and say, "Oh no, listen, it's insurance, we've already made an effort, etc." I don't care if there are secret deals, etc. And we have to negotiate with the insurance companies. That is not the question. The question is, how is it that even today, people are not in a position to retread their house? That's the question. The second question, ladies and gentlemen, concerns dehumidifiers. It sucks crazy energy, these machines, so they can dry houses. It was estimated a month ago that the overbill was 700 euros. Have you seen the energy prices? Do you have electricity prices? What are we gonna do? Shall we take a look? We're gonna make people pay themselves? That's amazing, colleagues. And let's do it! Where's the state in there? Where's the state? We've abandoned people. They're still being abandoned today. Look at the difference with the dynamics in Germany. In Germany, the federal state has released 30 billion: 15 billion from the federal state and 15 billion from the solidarity of the Länder. And we intervene on the ground to solve problems. We don't know if it's the mayor, the province, the federal or the Region. We can't understand it anymore. It's shameful! As far as the substance of the past is concerned, let us first address coordination and regionalisation. Questions have been asked for two months and no one can answer the question. Was it possible to mitigate the effects of the disaster if communication had been better? How is it that in Belgium, a drop of water in the sky falls within the federal jurisdiction - the MRI - while it falls under regional jurisdiction when it lands in a watercourse. This has led to serious consequences. When the MRI explains that he could not warn Walloon, Brussels or Flemish authorities of the consequences that this situation would have on the ground because his skills stop when the drop of water approaches the ground, this raises questions. Some mayors tell us that they have not been made aware of the situation, as Mr Bacquelaine points out. We saw municipalities evacuating the inhabitants earlier, others much later, some like Verviers did it really later. It wasn't clear we had to evacuate. It is also the reality of the ground that lies with Verviers. People woke up at 3:00 in the water. How do we explain that since Wednesday, or even Monday, according to the MRI, we were expecting the problem, but we were not reacting? We're still waiting for the answer. If you trust that people don't talk about it and think about it, you're wrong. We have to give them answers. When we talk about solutions for the future, the re-federalization of these areas is clear to me. These reforms of the state are bits of stones. Take, for example, the idea of traditional politicians, during the sixth reform of the state, to regionalize the Fund of calamities, as if a calamity essentially stopped at a delimited space. The Prime Minister explained that he could not "make a donation". Thus, the federal government has decided to grant a loan to the Walloon Region. A loan with interest! It's a scandal. Solidarity is given, it does not lend itself! It's still crazy! And go and say here, "I couldn't do anything." I have already seen the Prime Minister more inventive, especially when it comes to bypassing the skills... What is this selfishness? It is so in contradiction with spontaneous solidarity that has come from all over the country. People have given without counting. Nationalists, with your history... Two worlds, two democracies, split everything, "Belgium splits" as N-VA and Flemish Interest call out: none of it! Why did all those people from Ostend, Bruges, Kortrijk, Hasselt and so on come to the scene spontaneously in Verviers, Pepinster and Liège? Just from their hearts. Because in Belgium, solidarity means something. Today people are going to bring soup from Hasselt, from Genk, from everywhere. So your theory that "Belgium splits" is totally beside the issue. You didn't understand. And that's going to come up more and more, and then you sit there nicely with your story to the whole world that you want to split Belgium. That sixth state reform, what's that supposed to mean? That's bullshit! The calamity fund must, of course, become national again. If we want to avoid – excuse me for using this word – the bullshit we find ourselves in today, we have no choice. The third important point is the means. I saw them, the firemen, the military, the people of the Civil Protection who wanted to go to the field. But I ask you the question, Madam Minister: when we are two months later, what do you think, in substance, of the figure of 400 military personnel? Are you happy or not? It is not possible to be happy with this, given the number of soldiers who told me that they were ready, in the barracks, and who wanted to go, saying that the heart was there, and that it was their job! We climbed from 180 to 427 soldiers in the field. It was by thousands that the military had to go to the field! Mr Bacquelaine, when you speed up on the issue of Civil Protection, which has 800 fewer posts, it was not a detail at the time of the crisis. It's their job to intervene at a time when it's going wrong. There are 500 fewer and you say that's not what was important! Your party, the MR, has decided to reduce the number of Civil Protection officers from 597 to 261. Today, do you think you made a mistake? That's what I'm interested in. I am speaking to you as a former minister, but he may be a Liberal minister of the government. Say you're wrong! It's not a drama, but say it! Instead, you say that this is not the main aspect. What matters is to go see the whole world. No, that's it, concrete! And that's what a commission of inquiry should answer. We're not answering. I don't understand. I now come to the coordination, Madam Minister of the Interior, and to the federal phase on 15 July. There's still a carabinieri side of Offenbach. Since July 13, we know we're in a state of crisis. We are going beyond 15 July with the federal phase of the crisis plan. It's still crazy! On the 26th, you stop, while the period is still problematic. And your argument in committee is, "The governors have asked me to stop the federal phase." However, it is not the governors who decide on the centralised approach to management needed in such a crisis! I do not understand why we dare not go to the bottom of things about what did not work in the context of this crisis. I don't know what you expect from people, but still today, the situation is untenable on the ground! Another example is public health. I'll pretend the Minister of Health was here. Minister of Health, who will bear all the consequences that have taken place in the Vesdre Valley? Who will help rebuild affected medical homes and practices? Who's going to help rebuild all of this? That's the question everyone is asking themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot imagine how spontaneous solidarity has had to replace the failure of the state in many different areas, including medical visits. Many doctors came spontaneously to the field to help people, to give them insulin or medication and to structure all this. It is not normal, however, that neither the federal state nor the regional state can take control of all this in the hours, days and weeks immediately after the crisis. We really live in two different worlds in this area. My questions will therefore be multiple. I asked the question at the institutional level. Has communication been a problem in terms of weather versus rivers? Has the arrival of funds been a problem because of the regionalization of the Disaster Fund? At the level of Civil Protection, does an internal report say, yes or no, whether the reduction of staff has had an influence? At the army level, would it have been possible to have more soldiers on site? Today, people ask that the army stay so that they can prepare meals, etc. Poverty persists today. I want to ask you all these questions concretely because people need to know the truth. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry and I would like to encourage all of you to vote on this proposal. You can rewrite it yourself if you wish, no matter who it comes from, but we need to have all the tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u16	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene, but I will be brief. I have no questions, because I have already been able to ask them to Minister Verlinden on 1 September 2021. At that time, I also received my answers on Home Affairs. At that time I also said that there is a cause for this tragedy and that there are consequences. The consequences are the deaths, the damage, the homeless, and the many aid workers who are still working to help the people on the ground. I just want to pay my respects to all the mayors, ships and aid workers. The mayor is responsible for the safety in his/her municipality and for the public health of the inhabitants. I found the intervention of Mr Baquelaine very honest and courageous to say this here. That is what we need to do more, as a parliament, especially listen to the people. Mr Lacroix has also come here to testify. We need to listen to the people on the ground in order to improve things. If Mr Baquelaine just said that in the first few hours we did not have the right mentality or the right material to be there quickly and to help, then we should listen to it and get to work on it. First of all, the government must do so, but so must we as a parliament. So we can change things from down to up, and not from up to down, as often happens in the Wetstraat. A tree grows from down to up, with clearly large roots, so that it can develop a beautiful crown. In this problem, I do not believe in a solution from the top to the bottom. I listened very carefully to Mr Hedebouw. I do not agree with many things, but what I agree with him is that the complexity of our country has led to a lack of communication. On 1 September 2021, I also gave this example in committee. While the fire department of the East Brabant relief zone, to which my municipality belongs, was helping in Liège, there was a river flooding in Oud-Heverlee, a village on the language border under Leuven. This river comes from Wallonia and flows into the Dijle. He was flooding. This could have been avoided if there had been communication from Wallonia to Flanders to warn them. All this has not been so bad compared to what happened in Chaudfontaine, Eupen and Verviers. However, we can improve the flow of information and cooperation. That is actually what Mr Bacquelaine has also asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u17	Mr President, six weeks ago we met in the Committee on the Interior to hold a first debate on the floods. We do not need to have that debate again, but I made an argument at that time to intervene very quickly. It has also been said a number of times today that there are still a number of problems on the ground that still cause many difficulties. I would like to make four points. Firstly, there is still a great need for food on the ground. How is it that our country does not manage to meet that basic need, at least not from day one? In a previous discussion, the Minister for the Interior said that the Red Cross has helped in the distribution and that the Interior has also issued an assignment. How does that work in practice? Who financed that? How do meals end up with the right people? How do we see the needs? How is the DOD still involved in this assignment? We're hearing positive signals from the Defense Department on the ground and the help that's being provided. How's the cooperation going? What does that mean for the victims? Many private gifts have also been made, including in the form of food. How exactly is this help deployed? How can we do better in the future? What lessons are learned from this? What happens to the food collected? We are getting signals that the food was destroyed, because not all the regulations could always be met. In which areas does the government still distribute food? Secondly, I would like to return to the functioning of the Red Cross, which has received more than EUR 30 million in grants in response to this crisis. Meanwhile, around EUR 1.5 million has been spent on the purchase of emergency goods in the first line and in the first period. What will the rest of that amount be spent on? Will this be done in a transparent way? Secondly, Minister Verlinden, at the last committee meeting you said that an analysis should be made. You were talking about an audit at the time. Is there any more news about that? Is that audit written out? Will you leave that to the Red Cross, or will the federal government be involved? Thirdly, in addition to Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands were also severely affected, but we see that they have dealt with the crisis differently and have acted differently on the ground. Do we have any more insight into how they coordinated that exactly? There has been some cooperation between our country and Germany and the Netherlands. It would be interesting to learn lessons from their approach. Were people of our country deployed in neighbouring countries and vice versa, in order to achieve better coordination? Same for the resources. There have probably been some exchanges of resources between the different countries and it would be good to have an evaluation of this. One final point before I give the floor to my colleague. Unfortunately, there was also looting and a feeling of insecurity, hence the curfew that was introduced. We were talking about this at the last committee meeting. The Department of Home Affairs and perhaps also the Defense Department can learn some lessons from that. When exactly were men deployed? Was there a patrol? Did that happen in the same way as in the Netherlands, where municipalities were completely deposed and there were patrols, so that there could not be looting? It was not quite clear to me in the previous sitting how that went. Some mayors had asked the army to join us. Was that question addressed or not? I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u18	Like some of my colleagues who have already spoken today, I am not only a Member of this House, but also as mayor of an affected city, where I have also spent a number of days in the mud and in the water plowing boots. I will not repeat my speech at the committee meeting on 1 September, but I do have a number of reservations and questions that I keep asking myself. Couldn't we have been more proactive? Couldn't we have alerted the citizens sooner? Couldn't we have used BE-Alert a little more? Shouldn't the federal phase be proclaimed a little faster? It has been discussed for a very long time in the committee, but the most important thing was said at the end by Minister Verlinden himself, namely that a learning committee should be set up. We must seize the opportunity to learn with a view to a next crisis. We also have to admit that we made mistakes in this crisis or in the run-up to it through savings from a long time ago, which made it a little more difficult now. Dareing to admit mistakes, however, is necessary, otherwise very little can be learned from them. The worst thing that can happen to us is that, in the event of another disaster, we will undoubtedly make the same mistakes. I focus on two aspects: on the one hand, crisis management itself, but above all in cross-regional crises, on the other hand, the crisis aid provided by the fire department, the police, the army and civil protection. It is clear that some things just did not go well, but the most important thing I said on September 1st is that there was too little unity of command. In fact, a number of my fellow Members have mentioned this. We are currently too limited in this respect, especially because we lack legislation to determine where the central command will be in the event of disasters. I was at a conference last Friday at the Fire Weather Network, along with a number of other committee members. Firefighters there said that we look at crisis management far too often from a theoretical perspective, but that does not work. We need to focus much more on operational crisis management. In the case of local crises, which are usually dealt with as mayor, things often go fairly well. It is usually very well managed, but it goes wrong in the case of large-scale, cross-regional crises. We often drop stings on this scale. The strength of our crisis management is just embedded in our operational expertise, but we do not make enough use of it. How can we make our operational strength scalable? How can we ensure operational, supra-zonal control and less policy direction? How can we, in the first phase, really work on the operational side and move it a little further? For example, we must first be able to tell the firefighters what needs to be done first and then think about what needs to be done afterwards. I think the fire department is very well qualified to deal with that fast, operational operation. How can we optimise the cooperation between, among others, Defence, Police, Civil Protection and Fire Departments? Is there even a possibility for the military's provincial commands? A province is very often the ideal size to manage such a crisis. The public authorities themselves must also be able to commit themselves to guaranteeing the safety of all their citizens, and certainly the safety of citizens who are really in need. Eventually, we all pay taxes for a very strong government. Today, the crisis must have taught us that the government does not always succeed. We can't always guarantee everyone's safety. In order to realise this, no committee is necessary, but let us use the committee to deal with such situations much more appropriately in the future. Our emergency services, such as police, firefighters, Civil Protection and other auxiliary power plants, have been moaning under savings or underinvestment for years. Not enough has been done, both in terms of material and in terms of staff. We've been warned enough. I don't have to tell you again what I told you on September 1st. We knew a real disaster would have consequences. That has now proved to be the case. Can specialised assistance in the event of major disasters such as Civil Protection still help us after reforms? Can civil protection still effectively carry out its task? We need to draw the same conclusions. We need a strong government that can guarantee disaster relief, but we also need unity of command. Especially for the latter, we need to do legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to do, I would, of course, like to join colleagues who have praised the quality of services that have been provided by the federal government, but also by other entities, by local authorities. One of the chronicles of this morning's LeSoir daily reports "My mayor, this hero". It is known that the municipalities were on the front line during the floods and had to deal with many problems. But I would also like to thank, and above all, those who have intervened and are still active on the spot, and who have done so all the time, from the beginning. I'm thinking in particular of the volunteers who didn't let the victims go for a second. It is known that the aid has become a little bit worse over the weeks and months because the holidays are over, because life is gradually regaining its rights, even if it is difficult in the affected areas. In any event, I would like to commend the courage of those who are still on the ground, including federal services. Here I am thinking in particular of Defence - I have had the opportunity to meet with some of its representatives on several occasions on the ground - who are organizing extraordinary work. If I understand the Prime Minister's absence because of an important obligation, I do not understand that this meeting was placed on today's agenda when it was probably known that it would be prevented. A European summit is likely to be planned long in advance. In my opinion, the Prime Minister's absence is damaging. I repeat that I am not calling into question the fact that he actually has a commitment. I question the fact that this meeting was scheduled, knowing that he had a commitment and that he should leave quickly. However, I would like to thank the ministers who are here to try to answer our questions. The Prime Minister's presentation focused on what is happening now, all the federal services that are deployed, and all that the federal government has been able to provide to help those affected. As I said at the beginning of September, the first concern remains the situation of people on the ground who do not know how they can have a roof tomorrow, who do not know how to have hot water, who do not know how to heat up, who sometimes do not know how to eat, dress or, at least, wash their clothes because, in some municipalities, there is still no public infrastructure to clean laundry. From then on, we take clothes, put them on one day and then throw them in the trash. I don't throw stones at those who do, but we have needs that are always extremely loud. I am constantly repeating this, along with others of my colleagues who are on the ground in the region. The Prime Minister referred to the commune of Aywaille, of which I am a member and which was confronted with a death. I am also thinking of other colleagues such as Mayor Lacroix, Mayor Bacquelaine or our colleague Julie. All these agents are living things, probably not quite as all parliamentarians can question you. They probably question you with a tint that may be more personal, more emotional, more touching. There are still many things that are not even suspected of being in the present century and with the modernity in which we live. Despite the efforts of the municipalities, the federal authority, the Region and all levels of power, this is largely insufficient in terms of the needs on the ground. I am thinking in particular of one of the most affected communes, namely Pepinster, but there are also Trooz, there are Verviers, so many communes whose needs are enormous. Minister, on the Interior and Security side, we had an opportunity in early September to discuss a number of issues. I'm not going to call them all back, because I don't want to give the impression that here we're having fun and we're doing the same thing by listening to each other. I will come to my conclusion later on the evacuation orders, which I continue to question. What exactly are these evacuation orders? Is this a simple email, a phone call to the mayor? Does not an evacuation order imply that the mayor must comply with it because we have passed into provincial guardianship, in other words, the deconcentrated organ that represents you? It's mandatory for mayors, they can't wait to see how things are going. Some people don't want to leave. These evacuation orders were legally binding, I believe. Why were they not either dispensed or executed? That is one of the essential points to which we must answer. There is a clear sense that there has been a problem in the coordination of the various services. The local mayors and agents tell us that there were a few little helpers and then they thought the cavalry was coming. The cavalry never arrived since there was no cavalry: all the means were there! Everyone believed, in their commune, that it was a first aid that was being launched and that the big aid was coming. But she didn't show up and we know why. Almost all parties recalled the terrible deficit in civil protection with its reform. We called him back and anticipated him. As early as January 2020, we tabled a motion for a resolution on civil protection – following an assessment we had in the Committee on the Interior – to highlight all the shortcomings on the ground. In July 2020, this Parliament voted for it. A year before the events! The lack of advanced posts, the training of staff and the reduction of staff were highlighted. Now you're telling us we're going to order a study! We're going to wait six months to get the results of what the then Parliament voted for. Should we waste more time on a sloppy reform which had no other objective but a budgetary objective and not efficiency? Will reform of the reform be postponed? All of your services need to know that and almost all of the agents see that Civil Protection is no longer working! They're frustrated, we've already said it during the covid crisis. Civil Protection could have carried out the disinfection of ambulances, but the emergency areas had to do so themselves while they were submerged. This is a front line service that could have been so useful for the covid-19, and that could have really helped. Those who were there did their job in an extraordinary way. It is not a question of throwing stones at them, but of throwing stones at political decisions that were not based on anything. I know it's not you, but now you and this government have the ability to say that you've been wrong and that we need to review the copy for the benefit of citizens, relief services and local authorities who need this extremely important support service at times. We also know that there was no form of unity of command. There has been no activation – this exists in our texts – of this strategic but above all operational unit of command. Everyone seemed a little self-delivered and everyone did what he thought was right to do, but sometimes with duplication, absences and lack of coordination. I always take this example: firefighters from Tournai arrived in our commune in Aywaille. Aywaille's firefighters ran into them. "What are you doing? We're here to help." They didn't know! It was very nice of them to come, and they were very helpful, but at some point, that the territory's own fire departments did not know that others were involved, even if it was very good for them to do so, still pose a real question. I therefore believe that we will not escape all these questions. You don't want to get away from it. I have always said that if aid on the ground is necessary, indispensable, and is the number one priority, now we have to understand. To mourn, because some are bereaved, but also to mourn another type, that of the life before all these victims, people need to understand what happened. This is how one progresses in a path of mourning. For now, people don't understand. Why didn't there be a faster response? Why was there a lack of coordination? Why didn't some things happen in the first 48 hours? There are answers to be given. Why couldn't the canoes be deployed? We know why: necessarily, with everything that the waters carried, they would have exploded in two phases three movements, but people do not understand. Why didn't the helicopters take off earlier? Because it was extremely bad, and we are not in the Alps where the terrain is cleared, and even in bad weather, they know how to land. There were electric cables, and a whole series of things that kept the helicopters from taking off. People need to know and be told why. There was a critical phase in which it was not possible to intervene, even if one had had 1,000 or 2,000 complementary men. This would not have changed anything, for a part in any case, in the first few hours. On the other hand, in the hours that followed, it would have made a difference, and we know that. All this needs to be explained. We do not yet have the impression that we have developed a timeline, a timeline that would explain why an evacuation order was not given or transmitted or what I know, why, initially, some very necessary aids could not be dispensed with technically and for a question of danger as well. People need to understand that. On the health side, Minister of Health, we have had a lot of feedback on front-line emergency medical assistance. At the time when, in the first 48 hours after the disaster, some people needed care, sometimes light, there was no deployment of medical aid, in any case not throughout the territory of the province of Liège, which was extremely problematic. We would like to know and understand how this is going, in the deployment phase, for light injuries. In this case, the lightly injured were not obliged to go to the hospital and could have been relieved by a field intervention (e.g., taking regular medication, some people having lost everything in the water). Some time ago, we asked you questions about the support of flood victims through emergency medical and psychosocial services. On September 14, you had responded largely to the articulation of this support; I would like to refer to the addition of the federal fund and the execution by the federated entities. I would like you to tell us now if you have the impression that the psychosocial and medical needs of the affected population are met with this dual articulation and, if not, what needs are not yet met. Regarding mental health problems, when you go to the field – without wanting to do Zola – and you see children with their parents telling you, fingering a few stacked bricks, "it was my house", it leaves traces. Their house was swept away by the waves. There are many mental health problems associated with floods, Minister. They must be taken into account. How do you assess the coordination of mental health care for those affected? There is also the question of advice from INAMI for people who have lost their documents and for caregivers who need to provide. Can you inform us about the state of the situation regarding the work of mutualities in favour of flood victims? Are there delays in the handling of these requests? To the question of support for health care personnel who were affected, you answered on September 14 by assessing the number of people affected. Is this still the case now or has it been reassessed? What practical assistance has been provided to these professionals to get back into operation quickly? That seems essential to me as a question. As far as Defence is concerned, I have said all the good that the victims, associations and local authorities think of the defence and the help that the military provides. I have two criticisms to make. Emergency areas tell us it wasn't "open bar" from the start. It took three or four days for this to become what we needed. We had the impression for a few days that the situation was a little frozen. Every time you had to make a request that went up to I don't know who and it was slow to relax to provide the help. That's what the rescue zones tell us. Minister, I would like to have your appreciation on this because the first hours were crucial. The second question might seem anecdotal, but it is not at all. With regard to the preparation of meals by the Defense, you explained the path. Since then, it has turned to the Red Cross. You are aware of the criticism of the meals provided. We are talking about highway sandwiches, at the expiry date sometimes passed, not suitable for older people. The quality of the meals that Defence provided with a private supplement was particularly appreciated by the affected populations. I have two echoes from Pepinster and Angleur that it is a disaster in terms of food balance. I'd like to know if the military kitchens are permanently folded. I know that the military remains in support of the Red Cross, but this should perhaps be reversed: the military serving primarily and the Red Cross being in support. Why is it not possible for things to remain as they were? It was highly appreciated. When there's almost that to share with someone, a meal, and that's when you get out of your wet house to go in the army tent to talk a little bit and see what's going on, it's important. I conclude, Mr President, because my speaking time will be exceeded. I have the impression that we agreed to our requests for this committee, but that it was a bit of a fingertips. We have the impression that you're all coming, that you're certainly going to be very polite to answer us. But there is no doubt that we will have to move to a higher speed. Indeed, the answers remain a little in a vacuum, that is the least one can say. I repeat to you that, for the victims, the important thing is aid now, but they also need to understand in order to move forward, and in our view we will have to move to the higher speed of a commission of inquiry. We will support any initiative, whatever it may be, no matter who it will come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u20	Mr President, in my turn, I wanted to thank the various ministers for their presence and for their work over the last few weeks. Of course, I also thank their respective departments, although I must regret that the holding of this committee, as it was organised, is ultimately not up to this task. I'll explain. We were entitled to expect from you or from Parliament a committee, whether it is an inquiry or a special committee, which is able to take the time to learn from what has happened in relation to a whole series of various problems involved. We see it today: we were waiting for five different ministers to talk about a single disaster. There was no need to take the time to learn from experts, victims, associations, the services having been directly on the ground. Indeed, the Walloon Parliament has assumed this responsibility; I still do not understand why the federal government has not done the same. There is a real incomprehension on this subject and I would like to bounce back on what has been said by my colleague Matz. We are talking a lot about helping to rebuild buildings etc., but I think the psychological reconstruction of the victims is extremely important. This reconstruction, whether we like it or not, also requires a fair understanding of what has happened. Madam Minister of the Interior, I had to go back to the evacuation plans and the federal emergency plan. We know that our country does not have a national disaster evacuation plan, as is the case in France or the Netherlands. This is primarily the responsibility of provincial governors. In light of the dramatic events of this summer, do you consider that the federal government must build on such a federal evacuation plan? With regard to the federal emergency plan, do you think it needs to be evaluated, reformed and, if so, within what time frame? With regard to the Federal Support Cell, which was set up a little in the emergency at the beginning of August, can we consider that now that this cell has been created, it is intended to become sustainable and to be set up every time in the event of new major disasters? If so, on what legal basis? Will a legal basis be developed for this purpose? Still with regard to this cell, the fact that we had to create this federal support cell in the space of a few days, does he illustrate an admission of weakness of the current law? It provides for consultation with ministers and local authorities, mainly the mayors and governors, but does not provide for sufficient consultation with other services that have been requested under this support unit, namely the police, firefighters, Civil Protection and Defence. The Prime Minister told us earlier that the federal government will extend the activities of this support cell until mid-November. Why was this date chosen and on the basis of what criteria? Who will be responsible for coordination between these different services once mid-November is behind us and, therefore, the support cell will no longer be in place or mobilized? With regard to the impact of the civil protection reform decided by the MR and N-VA government, its two main guidelines are the abolition of four of the six barracks and the reduction of the number of staff by 30 per cent. In this regard, Madam Minister, you explained in committee on 1 September 2021 that the two remaining units, Crisnee and Brasschaat, had been permanently deployed, since the relief services had themselves been affected, so that Civil Protection volunteers had also had to be deployed. In the end, this shows that, in the face of such a disaster, the four other barracks that have been abolished could have been useful for us to come as additional reinforcements. Today I dare not imagine what would have happened and what needs we would have had if we had had to experience another disaster at the same time as the floods. Also at this committee on 1 September, you announced the launch of a public procurement to carry out this analysis, this evaluation of the civil protection reform. We're a little over a month later. How are we doing in this regard today? What will be the main components of this analysis? It will be absolutely necessary to objectiveise and assess the consequences of this reform, in particular on the time frame for intervention in the affected areas and therefore on the human impact of this disaster. Under such circumstances, every minute counts to save lives. You know that very well, Madam Minister. I now turn to insurance, even if the Minister of Economy is not present. I dare imagine you'll pass the message on to him. I wanted to go back to two aspects that seem fundamental to me. First of all, I will mention the intervention ceilings for insurance contracts. Very often it appears that they may be insufficient in terms of the damage that needs to be covered. That is why some decisions have been taken at Walloon level. A protocol has been concluded between the Walloon Region, the insurance companies and Assuralia, but it remains temporary and quite exceptional. I therefore wonder whether there is any discussion at the federal level to act at the level of these ceilings and to avoid substantially different regimes from one Region to another. The section of the Caisse Nationale des Calamités is very important: the fund has not been fed since its regionalisation, on 1 July 2014, regionalisation decided by a large part of the parties present here. If there is an awareness of the harmful effects that this regionalisation has had, very well! It was more than time to realize it. Still, its envelope was finally increased, also in the emergency, by the Walloon Region. Once again, it is the federated entities that have to pay for the institutional choices decided by the federal government, which decides every reform of the state to increase the division of powers without ensuring the existence of a unit of command where necessary, or a budgetary transfer to accompany the transfer of powers. I think you realize that when you meet people who are affected or even citizens in general: people don't care who is competent for what. In this case, as far as the victims concerned are concerned, what concerns them and what they are entitled to expect is simply to be able to spend the winter warm, regardless of the level of responsible power. With regard to the financial and material support of the federal government to the victims, the Prime Minister has come back to a series of agreed measures, such as the reduction of VAT on demolition and reconstruction. It is in this sense that I find Mr Bacquelaine's reflection interesting: can we ask citizens who have not asked for anything, to be taxed on costs relating to the reconstruction of their homes or businesses because of natural disasters? I agree with my colleague, Mr Bacquelaine: is the federal party ready to hear this argument? The Federal Government has decided to grant a loan and not direct aid – contrary to what Germany has decided to grant both direct and non-conditional aid. We have discussed this subject last Thursday in plenary, but here we may have more time to hear the reason for this loan. The Prime Minister recalled this today, if the federal government has decided on a loan and not on aid, it is because of "the special financing law that would not allow another solution". I find it difficult to understand this argument for two reasons. First of all, when I read the law, I do not see how direct aid is not possible, except for the regionalization of the Disaster Fund. If that is the case, let us say it clearly. In doing so, are the various parties responsible for this regionalization ready to acknowledge that this regionalization was a mistake? Therefore, now that the lesson has been learned, is it moving towards a new fund or is it considered that it would be more opportune, logical and simpler to re-unite the Disaster Fund, as long as, as everyone knows, natural disasters do not have regional boundaries? I also wonder why the government manages to be creative, to make up for gaps in the law when it comes, for example, to saving banks, but not to save the victims of natural disasters. The Prime Minister said that he had written to the Ministers-Presidents in this regard "to provide for a mechanism of financial solidarity in the event of an asymmetric impact of disasters linked to global warming." I have to ask myself the question of the state of this reflection and whether we will take advantage of it to address the very practical question which poses a problem to the victims: that of the often very long delays between the filing of a file and the compensation to which the victim is entitled. In any case, here too the argument of fragmentation of skills is inaudible. It finally gives the public the impression that our state functions as a big bank rather than as a federal state anxious to give meaning to solidarity between regions, solidarity of which – as we have all said – the citizens have, for their part, been able to demonstrate. It also gives the impression, I am sorry to recall, that the federal government has finally won over an argument that was raised by the N-VA, whether by the voice of its president or by the voice of one of its members, that they did not see the point of giving money to Wallonia, considering, I quote, that "there was no certainty as to the proper use of these means". I'd like to talk about it again here because it's something that's deeply shocked. With regard to medical and psychological support for the victims, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity of your presence to address this point. Many doctors and pharmacists report respiratory problems, gastric problems, skin problems. Is your Government doing the job of identifying the number of people who have developed such complications, to see exactly what is the most appropriate follow-up they should be given? You also mentioned guidelines that were issued to general practitioners. How have these recommendations been communicated? These general practitioners experienced, for example, power cuts, they did not always have Wi-Fi, and therefore had difficulty obtaining important information quickly. Were these recommendations intended only for general practitioners in or outside the affected areas? General practitioners in Brussels or Flanders could very well have to treat people who have been affected in one way or another by the floods. You also stated that it is impossible today to know the number of health care professionals who have been directly affected. I wonder why it seems so difficult today to quantify the number of victims among general practitioners. Does this concern disaster victims in general? Today, I imagine that most of these victims have taken steps, either with their insurers or with their CPAS. I also wanted to go back to a commitment you made in committee on September 14. You were going to strengthen the budgets for the training of first aid workers and in-house prevention and protection services at work. What about today? I also come to mental health. I started with that. The psychological impact of these floods is enormous and catastrophic. It will be felt in the very long term. Who is in charge of identifying psychosocial needs today? You also mentioned a post-traumatic stress prevention guide, which would be distributed to victims. What about today? To do this, of course, we must have identified each of these victims very well. As far as Defence is concerned, I have very specific questions to ask the minister. How much do you estimate today of the lack of defence personnel, both in terms of human resources and in terms of material means to deal with new potential natural disasters? How many military personnel in total have been mobilized? Can you disaggregate them by type of mission? It is known that Defence has been mobilized for a wide range of missions. In areas where the army is no longer mobilised – even if a large part remains mobilized, and I really want to thank him for this – has an evaluation been carried out or will it be carried out, in order to ensure that the needs of the victims have been well met in these areas? Finally, I have to end with the climate aspect. Very few have talked about it. Political decisions had an impact on the outcome of the disaster, but, as has been said, floods were of such magnitude that climate change undoubtedly played a role. It is known that floods will be ever more frequent, ever more important, and therefore more fatal. We cannot accept this fatality and act upstream. That is why I come to my last question. We know that this government has the ambition to fight global warming. He has – I hope, but we will see – ambitions for COP26. The Prime Minister also announced a working group to adopt additional measures. My final question is whether there is a timetable for work on this subject and, above all, whether the first steps have already been taken. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u21	I do not think Mrs Rohonyi has read properly what has appeared in the press. Like the federal government, Flanders has proposed a loan, and even a bond, to Wallonia. I do not know why this is not recognised. Although Wallonia has refused this proposal, it will examine it. It's hard to do more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u22	I think that we should, above all, listen to the answers of the trade ministers and not stir up discussions among ourselves. I will respect protocol order and ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health to answer first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u23	Mr President, we are, of course, all having this discussion, bearing in mind the many victims and the suffering and misery that are still happening in the areas affected by the flood. I am about to give some figures and facts, but there are, of course, a lot of human tragedies behind these figures and facts, let us not forget that. In particular, I am going to give figures and facts on what has happened, in response to a whole series of questions. I am not really going to go into what the evaluation is about the future. The Prime Minister referred to what my colleague Annelies Verlinden announced as a very good initiative, namely that we are going to learn through a learning committee. As you know, in addition to this initiative, the federal government has also asked the National Crisis Centre and the Coronac Commission to consider how our country can be better prepared for such serious catastrophes. I would also like to point out that the special committee on COOVID-19 has, in my opinion, also put a lot of interesting recommendations on paper. We do need to learn. We have learned from the past two years that, as a country, compared with the scale of the catastrophes we are facing today, we sometimes give an answer that is too small a few measures. If I just stick to the facts and say that we do need to learn, I want to make it clear that the reaction I give is not complacency, quite the contrary. I would like to say, and it has already been said by other people, that the people we are talking about here, the leaders of the urgent medical services, the military, the people of the Interior, everyone who has cooperated, officials, experts at all levels and volunteers, have made a huge effort. We must not forget that. For many of these people, this commitment followed on from a long, difficult period in which they had already engaged in the fight against the pandemic. This applies both to Home Affairs and Defence and, of course, to Health. Let me remind you of something that everyone knows, but which I think is useful when I start. As the powers are divided in our country today, the federal government is responsible for the organisation of urgent medical care, and of course also for the financing of health care, healthcare professions and so on. On the other hand, preventive measures in the areas of health, preventive medicine, the organisation of the first line and the organisation of the first line, and also important aftercare, rehabilitation and chronic care, are not part of the federal powers. That gives some structure to the story that follows. But I would like to say straight away that in the field our people have absolutely not wanted to keep to this division of powers. This is also apparent from the initiative taken by Mrs Verlinden to organise a federal support cell. It is also apparent from the fact that the people of health continued to work after the federal phase, and even to some extent continue to do so today, in order to do what they have to do. I would like to underline that. We have not necessarily kept to these responsibilities scruples all the time. Sometimes, in a positive sense, it is coloured outside the lines. You also know, of course, that within the general emergency planning, the medical, sanitary and psychosocial discipline is called "discipline 2" by urgent medical assistance. That's something I'm going to focus on quite strongly in response to a number of questions. The activities of this discipline 2, i.e. medical-sanitary and psychosocial discipline, were started on 14 July at 00.29 hours after a pre-alarm for the medical intervention plan and the psychosocial intervention plan. Through the crisis intervention management system, which is a platform of the National Crisis Centre, a case was opened on which everything that happens is kept up to date. The reason for the announcement of the alarm was the evacuation of the camps of youth movements in various municipalities, namely Jalhay, Hamoir, Theux, Stoumont and Spa. The evacuations went pretty smoothly. In fact, I mean without regret, despite the seriousness of the matter. There were no medical devices deployed at the time. Our psychosocial manager has assured each of these associations that there was sufficient framework for the children. That was there at the time and so no additional resources were mobilised. During the evacuation of the youth camps, the situation on the ground has not improved and it soon became clear that the flooding would affect seven provinces: Liège, Namur, Luxembourg, Walloon Brabant, Hainaut, Limburg and Flemish Brabant. Other evacuations took place at the time: residents of homes, rest homes and so on. Sick cars were used for two obvious reasons: because there was a call for urgent medical assistance and for assistance in the evacuation of vulnerable residents. In order not to affect the capacity of urgent medical assistance, we have asked the Red Cross for additional ambulances, which have also been used for these two tasks. Reception centres were opened in several municipalities. Fragilized residents were not brought directly to those shelters, but were taken into hospitals. A number of reception centres have become shelter centres over time, and there too the framework has been maintained. In the reception centres, activation of the local psychosocial networks was ensured, assisted if necessary by Red Cross volunteers. In the morning of 14 July the provincial phase was proclaimed in the province of Liège. Let me give you some figures. The emergency caused additional calls to 112 in the first days, from 14 to 16 July, to about 200 additional 112 interventions on one day, on 16 July, compared to the period one year earlier. If an emergency call comes, it will be answered with the necessary means and ambulances or MUG will be sent out. We immediately found that our interventions were under pressure. I can give you figures on that. The floods and the inaccessibility of some roads caused longer intervention times within the period of the floods. On average, the free medical interval, the time between the call for help and the arrival of aid on the spot, in this region is between 400 and 450 seconds, i.e. about 7 minutes, but on 15 July, for example, that free interval has peaked and it has risen to 887 seconds, just under 15 minutes. This is, of course, problematic and therefore an additional 112-permanence was organised in Nessonvaux on 15 July to accelerate interventions along the damaged N61. There was also a question about what is happening there. I have some figures on these 112 interventions between July 14th and 18th. There were 56 interventions where on-site care proved sufficient, 81 on-site care interventions where the ambulance crew would have preferred to take the people to the hospital for more assistance, but where they preferred to stay on the spot. All in all, I would say that this is a problem of very heavy pressure on this organisation. But with the resources at our disposal, I think we have been able to respond to the needs in a basic way. It is important that we have used the operational leader of the second discipline on the ground to carry out the evaluation and needs of the affected zones. We've doubled the position of medical director. So there were two so-called DirMeds on the premises. At the start-up of large-scale helicopter evacuations, we installed a advanced medical aid station at Bierset airport as a precaution. The evacuated could immediately undergo medical triage upon arrival and be directed to the correct care circuit if necessary. I can say that the emergency services have registered 516 emergency consultations due to the flood, divided into 12 hospitals. 203 of these people were taken to the hospital with the 911. The others came with their own or other means. 109 patients had to spend at least one night in the hospital for medical reasons. The list of wounded was shared with discipline 3 to cross with their list of missing persons. Soon I'm going to explain a little more about psychosocial, but first I'd like to talk about the different questions about the first line. Today we know that at least 40 consultation sites, which corresponds to the practice of 81 general practitioners, were to a lesser or more extent affected by material damage. As I said earlier, the organisation of the first line is not really a federal competence. Of course, we have allowed our people to act very actively in supporting and restarting activities of the first line. 18 first-line posts were developed for the population. Within these posts, efforts were made to ensure the permanence of doctors and nurses, pharmacists, etc. These posts remained active until the start of local pharmacies, general practitioners' practices and nursing home care. For many patients who could no longer prove their insurability to the pharmacist because of the loss of their identity card and the like, there were therefore problems in getting medication. We have included all this in consultation with the FAGG and the RIZIV. Solutions were provided. With regard to psychosocial assistance, a telephone information centre was opened from 16 to 26 July, line 1771. The second psychosocial line for reports or questions related to injured or missing persons was also opened within that telephone information centre. We are also supported by volunteers from the Red Cross. Since it wasn't one centralized, collective psychosocial problem, we sent out psychosocial patrols. Those were groups of two people to look up the population, identify needs and provide first psychological support. It's not the standard approach, but we've sent people out in groups of two. These included volunteers from the Red Cross, staff from the Centre for Crisis Psychology of Defence, psychological staff, students from the University of Liège and other volunteers with the appropriate training and profile. Those responsible for local psychosocial networks have been coached and steered to support their local psychosocial functioning within the municipalities. Individual or specific actions are co-ordinated on an ad hoc basis depending on the needs, e.g. for the reception of members of youth movements. Unfortunately, some people have experienced on the spot that a member of the group has drowned. We have also tried to provide maximum support for the supervision and care of children and parents affected by the flooding. For the supervision of families or the surroundings of missing persons, a specific reception centre was opened in Crisnée from 16 to 23 July, in collaboration with the DVI. From 28 July, a SPOC was identified in each municipality for the psychosocial aftercare in the municipality. I have also said before, some people have also referred to the fact that brochures and flyers relating to psychosocial needs and resilience have been distributed and made available online. So we didn't stop at the end of the federal phase. Within the federal support cell, we have deployed a federal health inspector and a psychosocial manager to ensure continuity and psychosocial assistance until an active take-over of this coordinating role of aftercare by the Land's responsible authorities could take place. On 26 August, two coordinators for aftercare in Wallonia were appointed by the competent authorities. Then our federal people organized a knowledge transfer. Then there are different routes of aftercare for the public, for the aid workers, for the employees of municipalities and OCMWs. Contact with the population and follow-up is ensured through accessible contact points within municipalities and OCMWs or at distribution points of water and meals. The follow-up of emergency workers and staff was usually organised through the services of prevention at work or through specialised teams. So a transfer took place long after the federal phase was terminated. Weeks after that, we made a transfer, but until today our federal experts, the psychosocial manager and the federal health inspector, continue to monitor the federal support cell and offer their expertise where it is necessary and where it is requested. I think I have answered these questions. Several Members have also asked how I evaluate the needs there. That's something that's being monitored and coordinated by the federal support cell. Under this follow-up, it was also decided to identify with university teams what the needs are in the field. A mandate has been given to the UCL and the ULiège to do, under patronage of the federal support cell and with the cooperation of the psychosocial managers, a real need research so that we know what we need to do about psychosocial support for the people in the field after this catastrophe. It goes a little beyond this discussion, but more generally I would like to say that the psychological assistance of the first line is obviously very high on our agenda. The members of the Health Committee know that. In financial terms, we have decided on a historic investment in the psychological aid of the first line. It is now being rolled out in practice step by step, with conventions that we conclude with the networks of Mental Health Care in our country. These networks will then have to conclude conventions with individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics, but unfortunately it will be too late. I'm not declaring that here in a spirit of euphoria. It's gonna be too late. I have no merit in it and I certainly do not want to sound complacent about it. However, in the very first phase of the crisis, with all the critical reservations that have been expressed about this, I have listened carefully to Mr Bacquelaine and many others, it has proved useful that we have also invested with the federal government in setting up psychosocial intervention plans at the local level and that preparatory work has been done. You don't hear me saying that everything was perfect and good. However, it has been useful to have psychosocial intervention plans at local and provincial level. We've got ready to go, too. However, you do not hear me saying that this was enough. I certainly don't want to do that. Mr President, I had special questions about the Red Cross. Before I go into more detail about this, I would like to say that the relations of the Public Health Office and therefore of my competence in the issues were actually limited to two specific areas. Firstly, we have a relationship with the Red Cross in connection with the routine emergency medical assistance. There are certain permanences of the 112 cars that we entrust to the Red Cross under the same conditions as we do with other permanences. Secondly, in the event of a disaster, there are rapid means of intervention, such as personnel and rapid intervention teams in the medical and logistics fields. It is important that there is also psychosocial intervention in the French lesson Services d'Intervention Sociale Urgente and the services Urgent Social Intervention. This is really a task of the Red Cross, in which we are related to the Red Cross. You will understand that I will confine myself to that. I will not comment on other issues raised here regarding the functioning of the Red Cross. That is not within my competence, and I will not give anything about it either. Last July we entrusted the following tasks to the Belgian Red Cross. Firstly, the use of five additional ambulances to support routine urgent medical assistance. Those ambulances were used to strengthen emergency medical assistance for the evacuation of injured victims, and secundo, to assist in certain evacuations requiring an ambulance, for example weakened persons in a residential care centre. Secondly, Red Cross staff, in particular the services of DSI and SISU, were deployed in the following assignments. Firstly, strengthening police victim assistance in the death of a young girl, who unfortunately died of drowning in the province of Luxembourg. Second, the call center 1771. Thirdly, the cooperation with the DVI and the police victim support for the implementation of the ante-mortems and the administration at the shelter for missing persons in Crisnée. Fourthly, strengthening the psychosocial teams in the shelters. Fifth, support for the organisation and coordination of psychosocial patrols, which I have just spoken about. Sixthly, the best practices of psychosocial patrols within the fixed points, first-line posts, distribution points, which I mentioned a moment ago. Seventh, the back office of our discipline 2 regarding the psychosocial intervention plan. Eighth, to provide support for prevention and well-being services at the workplace, in particular coaching and training for the reception of municipal staff. Ninth, the setting up of support groups for municipal staff and for aid workers. Tenth, child care. 11th, psycho-education related to the first line of care and the care of children. 12th, support for the distribution points of the Defense Department. 13th, ensuring permanences at the request of municipalities. 14th, support for mental health care networks. I think I can conclude that a lot has been done. The worst thing that people can and can not help is that they can or should not be able to help because of the uncoordinated or uncoordinated use of volunteers. There are, of course, reasons why certain aid workers are not employed by their organisation. For example, because their profile is not asked, or because safety cannot be guaranteed. We should not, in fact, criticise the fact that certain aid workers were not used for the tasks I describe. There must have been a reason for that. I cannot say what the Red Cross has done and how it has divided the tasks. I think you should ask the representatives of the Red Cross. Questions have been asked about the collection of money by NGOs such as the Red Cross. I cannot say much about this either, apart from the fact that we give the Red Cross certain tasks which they finance and for which they, among other things, use collected money. I refer to their help with the first-line posts, their psychosocial interventions for the benefit of municipalities and OCMW staff, etc. They receive donations and one is also used for the other. The Red Cross is a solid partner, both in routine work and in collective emergencies. The Red Cross is also a privileged aid organisation within our emergency plans but has an independent statute. I cannot therefore say that the Red Cross has not done its job. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for speaking only Dutch. That's not my habit, you know that. The reason is that I wanted to use the right jargon very precisely here, in a rather complicated domain. I hope I have been able to provide some additional information. Mr Creyelman, then I have your questions. I may have already replied to that. You asked what happened to preventive action on possible health risks. We have indeed passed on recommendations on health risks. We have also offered the National Crisis Centre texts on the health risks associated with a major flood. For example, it is a very specific question of which foods should be disposed of. It is also about food in cans, for example. One can still use it if one first uses a javelin solution. We have made these very practical matters available to us. Probably less used than desirable, in all honesty. I don't think this has been optimally used in those circumstances. However, it was delivered. So you don't hear me say it's all been used perfectly. I have also told you quite frankly that we have asked for opinions from the RAG and from ECDC. We have also received updates. On 27 July we received an update from the RAG on health risks and on 28 July from ECDC. We have all provided this information to the National Crisis Centre. But I think we have discussed this before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u24	Mr President, Defence never intervenes alone or on its own initiative, but always in support of the civilian authorities. This is his mission to help the Nation. Defence intervenes after a specific request from the provincial or federal level, using the proposed request for support procedure. Defence support will therefore depend on the needs expressed by the civilian authorities responsible. These needs depend on the severity of the crisis and the management arrangements. The first units were deployed through the provincial commandos on July 14th at 13.30 p.m. In a first phase, the resources were deployed at the request of the governor, with the military provincial commander as intermediary. In the next few days, in the federal phase, resources have been deployed to respond to a need expressed by the NCCN. The rescue activities continued until 19 July. From 19 July, shower facilities have been installed to support the affected population, while food distribution started on 20 July through the locally installed field kitchens. Works were then carried out and support was provided, in response to the expressed need, from the NCCN and from the National Logistics Hub. The aid initially provided consisted of emergency aid and rescue operations, followed by clean-up work for general security, the restoration of the public domain and the proper functioning of the public authorities. For the local coordination of resources deployed in the province of Liège, a command element was added to the provincial command with means that could be deployed immediately. At present, the direct food preparation by the Defense Department is terminated and food distribution is gradually being transferred to the Red Cross. The remaining aid therefore consists mainly of geniuses and further cleaning works. In total, between 14 July and 29 September, the Defence deployed 13,486 troop-days. At the time of the floods, Defense was able to simultaneously deploy 16 vessels of RHIB and 6 aluminum vessels. Due to the meteorological conditions, the majority of these vessels could not be used. For rescues, Defence has 4 helicopters of the type NH90 that are deployed from Koksijde. The stand-by helicopter was immediately moved forward to Bierset, but could not be used, like the other helicopters present in Belgium and in neighbouring countries, due to the extremely poor meteorological conditions. In addition, in the first phase, Defense permanently deployed an NH90 type of TTH and an Agusta A109. As soon as the circumstances allowed, the helicopters were deployed for rescue operations, for reconnaissance operations in order to obtain a clearer picture of the situation and for the storage of car wrecks in hard-to-reach places. On July 16, two helicopter evacuations took place in Pepinster and in Esneux. Defense has lent 1,000 field beds, up to 67 vehicles of different types and used heavy genius equipment, such as excavators. In addition, Defense has delivered 58,400 sandbags to the affected areas. With regard to the distribution of food, the first request came to the provincial military commands on the evening of 18 July, and was confirmed by the Crisis Centre the following morning. As a result, a first team was deployed to the field from 19 July to midday. The first meals were prepared and distributed on site on 20 July. The date of 22 July as the beginning of the distribution of food by the Defence is therefore not accurate. At the Defence level, the proposed meals met the following requirements: hot meals must be sufficiently nutritious and varied, and must take into account different beliefs. In addition, each meal was to be accompanied by dessert and drinks. Suggestions for improvement have been continuously considered. Defence has demonstrated its ability to respond in times of crisis. However, the reduced number of cooks was a limiting factor, given the size of support and the length of the mission. Starting on 15 October, Defence will gradually hand over the coordination of food aid to the Red Cross, which will take over autonomously from 29 October. However, Defence will continue to monitor operations in the field, in close cooperation with the Federal Support Cell. In the specific case of the preparation of meals, it will therefore be up to the Red Cross – always in consultation with the Federal Support Unit – to ensure that the menus correspond to the needs of the affected citizens. With respect to the role of provincial commands, provincial commanders are the territorial military authorities of the provinces. They are representatives of the Defence within a province, particularly vis-à-vis civilian authorities. A privileged interlocutor between the military and civilian worlds, their role is to establish optimal collaboration between them in the framework of the Defence-Nation relations. It should be noted, however, that a provincial commander is not the commander of the armed forces present in his province. He alone does not have the competence to hire them. In the provincial phase of crisis – and if the crisis affects only one province – a provincial commander has some autonomy. The provincial military commander thus has direct access to certain military means, but can also contact the staff for the implementation of additional critical military means. If the crisis affects several provinces, interprovincial coordination is required. The findings, reported by some, on the timeframes within which provincial commanders were able to respond, are therefore related to the time required to coordinate resources among different affected provinces. Although some disappointment is understandable in the head of certain actors on the ground, among them our own military deployed in the affected areas, each action requires – you will agree – coordination of means, as well as consultation with local authorities and prevention assistants. This must be done in advance of any commitment to ensure that the assistance provided is both effective and efficient, and is carried out safely. In the federal phase – triggered from 15 to 26 July – coordination is easier because it operates at the level of the Operations and Training Staff Department. The instructions have always been very clear: the Defence must provide all the help it can mobilize. Since the activation of the Federal Support Unit in July, every request for assistance from a citizen or municipality has been analysed on the basis of the degree of urgency, the type of work to be done, depending on the staff and the means available to us. Whenever possible, Defence assistance was provided to the applicant and implemented as soon as possible. On 23 July the Council of Ministers confirmed the tasks of Belgian Defence, namely collective defence, collective security and protection of Belgian nationals abroad. In addition, defence must contribute to the security, in the broad sense of the word, of the population on national territory, regardless of the crisis. To this end, it shall make available its resources to support the responsible services, where available. This means that some key functions receive training in crisis management, but that Defence does not provide specific training related to natural disasters. However, members of all ranks are trained and trained to make decisions, and to act in volatile and uncertain situations. These skills can be made available to the Nation in the event of natural disasters. The cooperation between Defence, the various departments and local authorities is positive. She's also a professional. It can only be seen that Defence no longer has enough dual capabilities that are useful for expeditionary missions as well as for crisis management in the national territory to carry out its missions according to the expectations of the population. This imbalance, which follows the choice made during the writing of the 2016 strategic vision, will have to be an integral part of the updating of the vision that will take place in the coming weeks and months. The use of resources is based on the needs of the coordinators in charge. All expressed needs were analysed by the Defense Department and if the resources were available, they would be deployed immediately. Finally, a lessons learned process on defence engagement after the floods is under way, in consultation with the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have said a great deal in recent weeks about the power and sometimes also the powerlessness of people towards nature, especially in a changing climate. It should make us reflect on our role and responsibility in preventing further climate change, but also on how we can prepare our country for that changing climate. This requires cooperation between the Regions and the local authorities to look at, for example, spatial planning or infrastructure, but also the federal government should consider what it can do about emergency planning and assistance in the event of such extreme weather. We have already learned this, necessary and unfortunate, in the wake of the July disaster. On 1 September, we discussed a number of initial findings and lessonslearned. I will try to confine myself today to answers to the questions that have been asked in addition to what we have already said. Before that, I would like to make a number of comments because they may be able to indicate the answer to the questions. Firstly, there were many speeches about this, there are very different ideas about the structure of aid and emergency plans. In the last few weeks I have been given a lot of ideas on the subject. Mr Bacquelaine, as you have just said, we need a culture of rescue and we need a rapid emergency response. That is what we need to study and analyse. You can count on us to bring along the proposals on the organisation of aid and emergency planning. We will also take them into account for the optimisation of crisis management. The same applies to the proposals on the organisation of civil protection. I will come back to that later. A second observation is the enormous wave of solidarity in combating the consequences of this natural disaster, not only of the professional workers but certainly of the population. It is our task to see how we can better use these spontaneous aid actions in the future in professional assistance in the management of such disasters, taking into account, of course, the spontaneity of those actions and the way in which volunteers wish to engage and organise themselves. A third point I wanted to make as a general introduction is that the coordination between the different levels of government in our country is crucial in managing such a crisis. Where federal emergency and emergency services are often involved in emergency interventions, prevention and subsequent interventions are important tasks of the federated entities, in other words, of the regions. Adaptation to the effects of climate change is also included. I believe it is essential to ensure that there is no overlap but certainly no gap between these different levels of government. Some have referred here, for example, to the information provided by EFAS, which arrives at the regions while the federal government does not receive direct information. With regard to this information and comparable data, we will have to look at the best way to deal with it. We also talked about housing. Mr Hedebouw, you referred a few times to examples or stories of people who had come to you. Lodgement is, of course, a competence of the regions. We're doing everything we can from the federal government to support it, but those are the agreements we have in our country today. As far as the progress of the lessons learned and the suggestions and proposals that have been made are concerned, it is true that we announced quite soon after the events in July that we would launch a learning committee. I would like to come back to that later. I think it is important that I repeat here as an introduction that we must do our job well. There are a lot of things we can look at in the short term, some quickwins. However, we must also be realistic. If we want to hear people, both experts and the partners involved, we need to make good choices to prepare for our country. In my view, there is no doubt that we need to move forward quickly with this. However, we must keep the appropriate planning in this respect. In the meantime, we can do a number of other things. With regard to reconstruction, the Walloon government police station took the decision and led the reconstruction operations in the affected areas. As far as I am concerned, the Federal Support Cell will continue its work until 15 November. It is clear that we will be here as long as we are needed. The date has now been chosen because we will gradually evaluate the initiatives and ideas we already know. Since 1 September, the date of the previous commission, the Federal Support Cell has continued its work in the area of police and security and, as Minister Vandenbroucke said, in the psychosocial care of the victims. There is therefore also coordination within the Federal Support Unit. We are planning the necessary actions in a realistic timetable. I can confirm, for example, that discussions are taking place within the housing unit, in consultation with the police station responsible for reconstruction, to see how we can help. For the sake of completeness, I can also say that last Friday the government decided to bear the costs of the claims, which were made by the governors of the affected provinces in the urgent phase before 31 August, on behalf of the federal government. In total, this amounts to some EUR 3.9 million for efforts made by private companies for the first debris, road clearance, waste collection, housing support, expert research and so on. In addition, the federal government has launched its first assignment in the acute phase for the delivery of meals. This is a total cost of about 850,000 euros for the delivery of 10,000 meals per day in the period up to 15 September. The federal government had taken the initiative to launch this specifications. This was then taken over by the Region, taking into account the division of labour. Finally, I can confirm that we have applied for intervention from the European Union Solidarity Fund. We have worked closely with the Länder for this, because it was necessary to get a picture of public and private damage. On the basis of this request, we might be able to claim EUR 185 million in European funds for the restoration of infrastructure, energy, water and waste facilities, telecommunications and transport. The restoration works could thus be financed. I shall come back to this later in connection with Mr Thiébaut's question. I will now answer some specific questions. I have tried to bring them together in order to provide as comprehensive a response as possible. The first questions concerned foreign experience, cooperation, benchmarking. Mrs Depraetere, Mrs Chanson and Mr Ingels and Mr Briers had questions about this. It is certainly the case that good international cooperation and good communication between the various countries are essential for disasters of this magnitude. Of course, that is not new or that is not the case, not even in the context of this crisis. There have been close contacts for a long time between the various crisis centres, including those in our neighbouring countries. During times of absolute urgency, there has also been regular contact, including with the Dutch crisis centre, which also shared situation reports and information because of course there was a connection between our water shortage and the situation in the Netherlands. We have also been in contact with the crisis centres of Germany and other countries. It was asked whether Belgian emergency services were deployed abroad, in neighbouring countries. We did not do this at the acute stage, because all available Belgian resources were used to meet the needs in our own country. Given its size, we have requested and received international support for our own rescue operations, in the form of boats and helicopters. I refer to the report of the committee meeting on 1 September, at which more details were given on the international intervention and assistance we received in July. To be complete, I can tell you that the Netherlands and Germany are still identifying the lessons they have learned. It is clear that all the lessons learned will be put together in the future. But, as I have just said, Germany and the Netherlands have not yet completed their work. In any event, it is logical that follow-up will be ensured. There will be a consultation on this subject. I also had a discussion last week with the Dutch Minister, Mr Grapperhaus and the Luxembourg Minister, Mrs Bofferding, to discuss cooperation and consultation on equipment, but also on personnel and on the lessons that can be learned in terms of communication with the population. Before I answer another question on international cooperation, I would like to reply to Mr Briers' question on the timing of the answer to the European aid question. The application has been submitted. The European Commission will investigate it within six weeks. However, this does not mean that the decision will be final, because it will still have to be approved by the European Council and the European Parliament. That's about the timing. We will do everything we can to receive the answers to our support question as soon as possible. Ms. Song and others asked questions about BE-Alert and the authorities' active and proactive communication. As I explained on 1 September 2021, alert and information campaigns were launched via the BE-Alert system at the same time. For example, 140 alert and information campaigns have been launched for the province of Liège. There were also communications from the federal services and the Governor of Liège. Perhaps this is something that needs to be taken into account in the learning committee because communication needs to be coordinated. Sometimes people get several messages. The communication may therefore not be very clear. That will be taken into account. There were also alert campaigns: 11 in Walloon Brabant, 3 in Hainaut province, 18 in Limburg, 8 in Luxembourg province, 23 in Namur province, 1 in East Flanders and 3 in Flemish Brabant. So we used the BE-Alert system well. But it is clear that, for the future, it will be necessary to study whether or not information can still be added because, at the time of a crisis, people do not have time to consult the website. Consideration must therefore be given to how information on evacuation plans can be added, real time information. We're reviewing the system. As I explained on September 1, 2021, the federal government has planned the BE-Alert system, but it is the local and regional authorities that can use it and send the messages. It is the authority concerned that decides which message is to be sent in the emergency situation. It is not the federal government that organizes the sending of these messages. Another question related to the sirens network. In 2019, it was decided not to use this network anymore because it was found to be expensive and not very useful since it only gives one message, the mermaid. Today, we need more detailed or nuanced information. I have just spoken to the Dutch minister who told me that they were still using it but that it was not very practical because people do not know clearly what to do. This decision was therefore taken except for the Tihange and Doel nuclear power stations where sirens are still used. There were a number of other questions about the proactive communication alongside BE-Alert. During that period, of course, other things have happened. Messages have been sent on social media and websites. Visuals have been made. In addition, there was all the information shared with the information number 1771. The Crisis Centre has helped the provincial authorities to prepare the communication. This system certainly needs to be improved, but a number of initiatives have certainly been taken. Moreover, in the federal crisis management of emergency planning there is also a discipline 5 that is present in the crisis cells. That discipline 5 is precisely concerned with communication, but not only with its transmission. For example, it also examines what information is available on social media in order to monitor and possibly intervene. The Paragon system of the Crisis Centre will take into account all the new information that can be collected on the basis of artificial intelligence, so that in the event of a crisis that information can be further taken into account. Another series of questions by Ms. Song, Ms. Platteau and Ms. Ingels related to the Astrid network. This point has been studied and analysed. With the information available today, it has been concluded that Astrid systems have demonstrated their robustness. Unlike the commercial infrastructure, Astrid continued to provide radio communications for emergency services as well as emergency power stations 101 and 112. There have been some minor interruptions but with the occasional delivery of backup generators by truck, these are only a few minor interruptions. In general, the system worked well. Mrs. Ingels, you referred to the scamming. We have looked into this for a moment, but perhaps we need to discuss it further in the future, because it was not quite clear to us what you were referring to with your question. According to our evaluation, the ASTRID system was maintained thanks to the technical investments. The systems have been upgraded, modernised and flexibilised. For example, the two police information and communication centres, in Liège and in Waver, had to be evacuated, but the people could still use the system, because they, also on location, got the information and the messages. So the net is good to be able to work on a decentralised basis. The calls to number 101 could continue to be received and their handling also continued. In any case, I think it is appropriate to thank the employees of ASTRID for their preparations, the technological updates and actualisations and the work that was done at the time of the crisis itself. I come to the questions related to evacuations, questions by Mrs Jadin, Song, Rohonyi, Matz and Platteau. It is true that Belgium does not currently have a national plan for mass evacuation of the population. It's not that we have nothing to do with the evacuation. The mayors and governors prepare evacuations in their general emergency and response plans and identify reception centres for their population. I must point out here that at the beginning of the crisis, before the federal phase was declared, it was the mayors and governors who launched the evacuation orders. These were decisions of the local authorities. For example, in the province of Luxembourg, the governor decided to evacuate the youth camps. It was not at the federal level that decisions were made; indeed, when the federal phase was triggered, there was no longer a question of evacuation but of heavy rains. It is clear that there is still work at national or federal level. The Crisis Centre is aware of the issue. This is why evacuation initiatives have already been taken. A study was carried out by the Crisis Centre to determine how a national strategy could be developed, notably within the framework of the ISO standard and the requirements of NATO and other international frameworks. Today, it is still a study and a theoretical exercise. It was in particular the covid crisis that intervened to deepen and operationalize the theoretical exercise that had already been done. In the future, the Crisis Centre plans to use this study to develop guidelines. We need educational work to ensure that evacuation orders are followed by the population. Today, if governors and mayors take an evacuation order, the population is normally obliged to follow it, but this was not quite the case in July. We have to learn from what happened. For example, in the Netherlands, this type of instruction is more familiar, so it is followed more disciplinedly. Perhaps it would be appropriate to consider how to educate people about evacuation. I see Mrs Depraetere is no longer physically present here. She had a number of questions about the food supply and functioning of and cooperation with the Red Cross. Mr Briers, you asked who is doing what. Mrs. Dedonder has already given an answer on behalf of the Defense Department. The food distribution at the start has been effectively absorbed by the Red Cross, which has set up cooperation with the event sector at the outset. The donations made to the Red Cross were used to finance the meals. There was certainly a fast and good response in the first weeks after the flood. Moreover, in addition to the operation of the Red Cross, which is still the case, there were other volunteers, who spontaneously took an initiative and showed great solidarity for the distribution of food. The next step in food supply was that with the federal support cell from 6 August 2021, we have provided a long-term solution. I referred earlier to the public tender launched by the federal government in order to meet the need for a more fully-fledged and balanced meal. That necessity was there at the time. I repeat, we have offered up to 10,000 meals a day. That was a framework contract based on the existing demand. We continued to provide those meals from 18 August through a number of distribution points, to ensure that we could get close to the people, to match supply and demand. In the Food Coordination Center, in which we have brought together all the meal initiatives, we have further incorporated the link between supply and demand. In this way, up to 13,000 meals per day were taken, so all meals were taken through volunteering and everything that was offered through Defense. This is one of the lessons learned that the flow of information on the delivery of meals is improving. It was not obvious to always reach everyone. In this respect, several communication routes have been used, both via social media and via flyers over the distribution points and the delivery of meals. The municipalities are also involved. Several channels have been used. However, it seems logical to me that we should evaluate how certain points can be improved in the future. This need for hot meals has not disappeared because many people still have no gas or electricity and are therefore still dependent on these collective meal distributions. There is also the psychosocial aspect of these meal deliveries. The social meeting following these meals can help people in difficult circumstances. That is why we have agreed from the Food Coordination Center that the Red Cross will take over this delivery coordination progressively. Today, this is still being done by the Defense Department, but a plan has been agreed, whereby a number of municipalities will be fully taken over by the Red Cross in a first phase and other municipalities in a next phase, in order to get the meals to the people they still need. With regard to the Red Cross, the second issue raised by Mrs Depraetere, we need to look at how this wave of solidarity can be improved, fully voluntarily and through the Red Cross, and how sustainable cooperation between public institutions and aid organisations and spontaneous aid can be better coordinated. I can give you some figures on volunteering. In July, August and September, the Red Cross-Flanders and Croix-Rouge de Belgique mobilised 7,568 people. In that period, 434.498 meals were distributed. All this has happened in cooperation. A number of people have enjoyed a meal in the shelters. The Red Cross has carried out 808 door-to-door campaigns to capture and pass on the needs of its citizens. 5.213 overnight stays have been made possible. A great deal of work has been done on the ground. We are familiar with the report drawn up by the voluntary organizations and by the volunteers on the ground. That must be a part of the learning committee we launched. We need to see how we can match that well. Some of the Red Cross resources were used for those meals. Around EUR 40 million was spent on donations and the rest of these funds will be used this winter, when needs will be even higher. Mr Briers, with regard to food distribution, I think that is how I answered all the questions. There are more details to give, but that may lead us too far today. The next issue is security, on which Mrs Depraetere has also asked questions. In any case, as from 14 July, when the natural disaster was still taking place, local police were provided through the system of the federal reserve, but also through the HyCap capacity. It concerned the protection of people, but also of goods and the organisation of mobility to manage people. The security of the disaster area in the province of Liège is still taking place today at the level of the DirCo, the devolved level, in cooperation with the affected police zones. Due to the still existing needs, the DirCo supports local police areas to ensure that police assistance and assistance is provided. The CAF, the federal support cell, is still on the ground today to meet and further strengthen the needs. The presence of the CAF made a difference from the beginning of August. For example, the number of calls for theft and suspicious behavior in the Liège disaster area dropped dramatically in one week at the beginning of August. The presence of the CAF, coordination and facilitation of police assistance have helped to further strengthen both the actions and the sense of security. As far as military deployment is concerned, I have been informed that certain local authorities have contacted Defense regarding security and surveillance. However, specific surveillance orders are not possible within the current legal framework. The use of private security on the public domain is also not possible. That is why that question has not been answered. That need is met today thanks to the police and other interventions. With regard to the destruction of firefighters' equipment and the police zone, there are questions from Mr. Rigot, Ms. Song and Ms. Jadin. My attention is certainly drawn to the magnitude of the damage in the relief and police areas. There were barracks and police stations in the disaster zone. It is clear that this has impacted the help they have given and their work. There is work to be done to rebuild the existing infrastructure, tools and equipment. In my opinion, a job must first be done by insurance. While the insurance questions may not yet have been answered, Minister Dermagne has been contacted, who is prepared to answer all these questions, which fall within his jurisdiction. Insurance also has an important role to play in the compensation of the areas concerned. I would like to reiterate the call made to the European Solidarity Fund for European funds and financial assistance. If this funding is received, it is clear that some of these funds will have to go to the areas that have suffered the damage. This will give us a financial margin to compensate the relief and police areas. A dossier has been submitted to the European Solidarity Fund to obtain exceptional allocations. No decision has yet been taken on this matter. We are not used to doing this, but we are talking about solidarity. Other areas have been mutually supportive and have assisted the affected areas, and this principle of solidarity also applies to the endowments of the relief areas. On the other hand, the assessment of crisis management and the prospects for this analysis were also important topics. In that regard, I will repeat what I have just said. It is very important to do a job evaluated and nuanced. Some of you find six months too long. Mr. Thiébaut, it seems to me, said that six months is too slow to assess Civil Protection. Ms. Matz said that we knew what to do. In my opinion, it requires more nuances. There are many suggestions about civil protection reform. The question arises, inter alia, whether or not there is a need for appropriate collaboration in relief areas, whether there is a need for advanced posts, whether there is a need for more personnel in Civil Protection or whether there is a need to review relief areas. Many questions arise. I will not speak on this subject today because work has to be done in the past. In any event, civil protection reform had already been announced. I am thinking here of the resolutions that have been adopted in this Parliament to assess and review its reform. Work on the drafting of a specification had already begun, with the aim of asking a private partner to carry out an evaluation. It is clear that, following the July disaster, the scope of the work of the private partner needs to be somewhat adjusted. Indeed, the work that must be done to assess the crisis and the natural disaster cannot be denied. The specifications will be launched in the coming weeks. You have to listen to the partners. Civil protection, volunteers and relief areas should also be consulted. Parliament must also be involved. To this end, an interim report of the study is required. At the same time, there is a need for an assessment of crisis management. As Mr Bacquelaine just said, we need a lifesaving culture. Urgent action decisions must be taken at the time of a crisis. The Learning Commission was therefore launched. In this context, a specification will also have to be launched, which will be done in the coming weeks. The idea is to work with a commission that will manage this learning process. An expert panel will also be established. The specifications will be launched with this in mind. It's very important to see how we're going to organize. That is why we must not go too fast. Don't wait. We have to do things the way we can do things today. But we mustn't rush. More partners need to be consulted than in the civil protection reform. In this case too, I propose to work with an intermediate vision to involve Parliament, but also local, provincial and municipal authorities. It's to be seen again. In addition, I have read in the press the idea of involving the Regions in crisis management. This brings something to the management of the crisis, especially if it concerns prevention and reconstruction, for which the Regions often have the competence. As Mr. Hedebouw said, we live in a complex country. Lessons must be learned and done by being well prepared. Mrs. Song, you had questions about evacuations. You have referred to the card on the website for the citizen's attention. As I have just explained in relation to BE-Alert, that is not all. The fact sheet provides the information available to citizens, but it is in no way a reflection of the authorities' or the Crisis Centre's preparation for evacuations. As I have just said, the preparation of evacuations is as much a responsibility of the local authorities. At the federal level, we are studying and preparing in detail evacuation plans. One more word about the federal support cell. We are still coordinating the work of Emergency Preparedness in support of the Office of the Commissioner for Reconstruction in Wallonia. The work that can and must still be done by the Civil Protection, the police and the relief areas is coordinated by the CAF. I conclude by thanking Prime Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Dedonder for the support they provided during the crisis. We didn't have time to get together for a long time, but we worked together in an effective way. I also thank them for the work and support provided by their services in the federal support unit, where it was important that all disciplines be represented. Finally, I thank them for their presence today. We will always be available to answer questions. I will certainly also call on Parliament to receive proposals and suggestions regarding improvements in crisis management and aid and crisis structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u26	I should like to give Parliament the last word. Who else would like to take the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u27	Mr President, of course I thank the various ministers for their input, especially Mrs Verlinden, since I had addressed most of my questions to her. Nevertheless, I regret some of the answers, because I find that Mrs Verlinden had been much more specific on some of my questions on 1 September. So I'm staying with a few questions that didn't get the answers I was hoping for. I still got a lot of information, even though some issues are still pending, as the minister has mentioned. I heard that many thoughts were going to be started and that several questions were being asked at the level of his firm. I also hear that she is talking, in particular, to the Netherlands, which has more experience in crisis management following floods, but also in terms of evacuation protocols. I came to this committee with many questions, and I was hoping to go back with information, but knowing that this was a second step. I did not think that parliamentary work was going to stop tonight, and I believe that we will still have to organise the continuation of our work in order to work even further on certain points. Mrs Verlinden said that she was available to parliamentarians, and I know that she is. That is why I appreciate the fact that she comes to answer our questions in committee, because it gives us something to work on afterwards. That is the case today. I'm saying I'm still hungry, but I know we're going to be able to continue the work started on September 1st. I know that our ministers are available. I think we will have to continue, I don't know in what form, I don't know whether to meet the ministers again, I don't know whether we will continue working in the individual committees or whether we will have a committee of inquiry or a special committee. It is up to us to decide together how we want to conduct our work, but I think it will take a next step anyway. I would like to sincerely thank the three ministers who have come today to answer all our questions. It's 7:22, though. We have had a few hours of rich and important exchanges for our work, but also for the citizens, who ask many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u28	Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the ministers and the minister for the relatively comprehensive answers, each in their jurisdiction. Having said that, I'm still pretty hungry because Minister Dermagne was not there to answer questions about insurance. It's not his fault because he wasn't summoned. How is it that Minister Dermagne was not called to come to the committee to answer these questions, which are of paramount importance to the victims? I asked two questions, no show. First of all, what is the government doing to ensure that there is a willingness in Assuralia to hurry to help the victims? I didn't get the answer. Secondly, what is the government doing in relation to the Regions to limit insurance intervention in the context of natural disasters? These are two key issues that focus on the daily lives of those affected today and the future. I would like answers to these questions before the next floods. I am not going to make my Cassandre, but we arrive in the winter, in the autumn, when the rate of rain, perhaps less violent than in the summer, is well present and we could still experience a disaster. I come to a second element from which we must really withdraw a teaching. All the disasters that have occurred in Belgium in recent years reveal an underlying problem of underfunding public services. Fortunately, there are plans in this government, particularly for defence, to hire more military personnel and to pay them better. Fortunately, in this government, there are also commitments to our police officers. Fortunately, in this government, there are commitments to medical and, above all, paramedical personnel, through the actions of Minister Vandenbroucke and the White Blouses Fund action carried out by my late colleague, Marc Goblet, for which I have a thought. Each time, it is seen that under-funding of public services is one of the causes of the lack of rapid response and the concern for efficiency. I'm not even talking about state reform. I find that a strong state protects the weak and I fight for a strong state. We are in the midst of a budgetary conclave, and when I hear some people proclaim authority to any brain, I would really like it to be kept in mind and I appeal. Thirdly, my comment concerned the absence of Minister Dermagne, but he was not invited, it was not his fault. I hope that this ad hoc committee will become more structural so that we can meet again for a few weeks to take stock of the progress of the government's work. I plead for parliamentary follow-up outside of all remarks and committees of inquiry. What would this be for? To point out responsibilities and shake heads in front of citizens. We'll say we've had the skin of this one or this one. Will this solve the problem of the ordinary citizen who is suffering and who has no heating? No! I plead for the seriousness and professionalism of parliamentary work. Before considering any committee of inquiry, we should first deepen the state of progress of the government's work in this area through any structure, provided that it is parliamentary. I call for urgent attention to be given to this issue, which affects our fellow citizens at heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u29	Mr President, we have not been well understood in our gestures. I did not want to interrupt my honourable colleague Lacroix in his reply. I thank the members of the government present for the answers. I'll start with the date of the first meal distributions. I hear that July 22 is not the right date, but that date comes from the written answer you gave me. In the meantime, I realized we weren't talking about the same thing. On the 20th, there is a management of certain meals that have been done on an ad hoc basis, but coordinated care has been done from the 22nd. It'll be clearer for the timeline. As far as this feeling of delay in the answer is concerned, I hear what you are saying about the necessary coordination and we agree that we cannot leave room for some form of anarchy in the answer that we are going to give. It's obvious. We need to know where we're going, how and why. The larger the territory, the more demands and the more difficult it is to get an overview of them. Nevertheless, I remain dubious about the disparity experienced and found between the resources and the assistance provided to the municipalities. As you said, in the event of such a crisis, the Defence is in support of the civilian authorities. I understood it well and they are the ones who set the tone. I therefore ask myself: is it on the part of the civil authorities that the information has not passed correctly? At what level of power can these lack of information be found so that Defence can intervene on the ground? Aid to the nation is obviously not Defence's first mission, I am aware of that. However, the risk of such disasters will only increase with global warming. They will be more frequent and intense. I do not want to do the Cassandre, but as our colleague Chanson reminded us, it is the scientists who say so. To deal with it, we will have to prepare and adapt. Defence has, will and must have a role in these preparations. It is for this reason that I believe it is necessary to work on better training, to organize regular joint exercises with civilian relief services, etc. When the experts issued their report on the update of Defence's strategic vision, the threat of global warming was almost every page. We must hear and understand it, it is the most dangerous threat to our country and the rest of the world. Even insurers have placed this threat above the health threat in the last few days. Mrs Rohonyi said that we did not talk much about the climate issue. I do not entirely agree: most colleagues have talked about it, which is a good thing. If you wanted to say that too few colleagues have talked about it, we fully agree. We must therefore continue to insist on this issue, which endangers our very existence. Finally, I welcome the launch of lessons-learned analyses, both at the global level and at the defence level. I will be very interested to hear the conclusions and then continue the work. I thank you again for your presence and the time you spent with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u30	In order to respect the order, I shall first address myself to Minister Vandenbroucke. Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my questions, but I would have liked to have received the figures you quoted in writing. I would also like to address this question to all the ministers. You say that there will be no evaluation for the time being, and you refer to the learning committees. You also say that there is no separate initiative from your department. You've come with the boltade that everyone's been working on it. No one will deny that there are people in the Home Office, Public Health or Defense who have worked. What I found remarkable in your speech was that the plans could be made but that they were not enough. I myself could answer with a boltade, namely that I have doubts about the existence of these plans, their evaluation and their updating and whether they have ever been tested. If that had happened, the scaling up might have been easier. With a little sense of exaggeration, I might say that at some point I had the impression that everything turned on the goodwill of those people to whom you referred within Health, Defence and Home Affairs, but that aside. I would like to thank Secretary of Defense Dedonder for her complete overview. What was quite obvious was that Defense never acts on its own initiative but always at the request of a civilian government. Minister Dedonder, what struck me in your speech is that the Department of Defense will gradually reduce support in the field of food supply. I hope, however, that the capacity that Defence now offers can be replaced by the Red Cross. That has not always been the case so far. As far as the civilian part of the defence mission is concerned, you actually confirm that you have insufficient resources. Of course, your department did what it could with limited resources. Apart from the general coordination, which, by the way, was not at your disposal, I would like to add my voice to that analysis. It is a pity that you do not really answer the question of how you want that role to be fulfilled in the future and whether you still need resources to do so. Madam Secretary, you almost confirmed that there are problems with the contingency plans. I am very pleased with that, because the first part of seeking a solution is, of course, recognition and recognition of the problem. That is where I am satisfied. You also said that you want to improve communication with the volunteers and that you also want better communication between the volunteers and the non-volunteers. That's an excellent idea. You went on like this for a while. Another thing you mentioned was looking at the gaps between the levels of government and taking lessons from them. That too is an excellent idea. Anyway, the bottom line is that we will eliminate culprits by realizing quickwins and introducing long-term adjustments based on in-depth analysis and consultation. All great, I have no doubt because I am a positive person. My conclusion on your intervention is similar to that on the presentation of the other excellences. I hear a lot of good intentions, intentions and promises here. I hope that there will be something of it in the future, because the moment of truth will of course come when such a disaster ever happens again. I would therefore ask you not to stand still for too long, otherwise Parliament will have to do more than its work here. I have not received any answers to a number of specific questions. This applies, moreover, to all the excellence that is present here. I will therefore put them as an oral or written question. As far as my good friends from the Parti Socialiste are concerned, I understand that sometimes it is difficult to identify those responsible. Some parties have structural problems with this, but that aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u31	Mr President, thank you for making this afternoon's joint committee possible. We've been waiting for him for a while. This is an exercise that has proved useful, as we can cross a series of information received today. However, there are still many outstanding issues that still need to be addressed. My colleague Lacroix's suggestion for some follow-up within this framework seems to me to be an interesting proposal, particularly in terms of coordination procedures in crisis management itself. In passing, I welcome the honesty of the Minister of the Interior, who has become fully aware of certain elements that will need to be improved in the future. Especially if we think about the fact that this could still happen in other forms. We need to be better prepared for the future. With regard to the decision-making processes that are problematic, it must be noted that some information may not have been percolated as it should have been about the possible and available assistance from the Defence. Here too, I plead that we should have easier procedures. If I understand correctly, the mayor calls the governor, who himself calls the head of the provincial component, who is applying to the federal phase for permission to send military assistance to the area. Is there no way to make it easier and more direct in the future? Is there not another authority that could, at that time, take over more quickly once a need is identified? I think that, in this rather critical phase that we lived in my region in the province of Liège, in particular, the needs were clearly identifiable and, in any event, known to the federal government. I also regret that we have not been able to address the issues of insurance, the role they can play and the role that this federal law on natural disasters has and will have. How can we protect ourselves from further disasters and ensure the resurability of certain public or private property? This will contribute to the safety of victims and affected persons, as well as the insurance sector, which, like other countries, will be able to find interesting inspirations there. I'll stay there for the time being. I hope that in the future we will have continued follow-up in this form perhaps, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive and clear statement. The learning board will be there. That is a good thing. She will also be aware of what went well, namely mass solidarity, both from professionals and volunteers. There was no regionalisation on the site. Everyone, all the security services, have given their support, of course. Are we fragmented in our support structure? At the firefighter's conference on Friday, the answer was clear: one call brought together 18,000 firefighters and men. That's what I remembered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u33	Mr President, I thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for their presence and for the answers they have given us. Unlike other colleagues, I do not stand on my hunger. I am not disappointed with the answers that have been given because I did not expect much from this committee. As I expressed in the Committee on Internal Affairs where this situation was discussed, the form we have here is not the appropriate form to discuss these issues. As you have heard, all Members remain hungry. It could not have been otherwise. If we want to dig into the problems we want to deal with here, we need to go deep. To go into depth, we need a framework that allows for it, in particular that of a commission of inquiry. I come back with that because that is what is necessary. We have been here all afternoon and fundamental questions have always been unanswered. One of them, which is at the heart of the dysfunctions that have existed, is the institutional question. Have the dispersion of skills and institutional cacophony played a role in the dysfunctions we experienced during the floods? This question was asked by my colleague Hedebouw, but no one has answered it. You have all responded within the institutional framework that we have, while this institutional framework may be – I do not say it because we do not yet have a committee of inquiry to prove it – at the origin of this cacophony. The Commission has also not answered the various questions posed by the victims. There were critical moments when aid was complicated or impossible. There is no answer to the question that Priscilla asked me yesterday. She told me she had to leave her house during the floods. His children were blocked. She waited twenty-four hours for help. Volunteers came to take his children with a jet ski. Why were volunteers able to do so and not the public services? I would like to point out, with regard to public services, that the staff was there. He was ready, but there was no direction. This does not answer Mireille's questions, policeman, and who also told me that she had spent two hours calling every five minutes to get someone on the phone to get no answer. When she had Civil Protection online to ask for sandbags, she was told, "It's not Civil Protection you have to call, it's firefighters!" When she called the firemen, there was no bag of sand. The firemen told him, "We can't do anything for you, even if we know it's going to be a disaster." What answer do you give him? When Mireille told me that when she asked her fellow police officers if there was a disaster plan to be activated, she fell off her chair and learned that there was none. The minister confirmed this today. The question is why there is none. Why? Yet all countries have one. Why not us? Nor have you provided any evidence to respond to the concrete problems faced today by the victims. We talked about the dehumidifiers that need to be activated. Because of their use, the energy bill is going to explode. Who's going to deal with this? No answer has been given to this question, although this is one of the problems facing the victims today. They are also faced with an insurance problem, a subject for which we have been told that it is Mr Dermagne who is competent. We will therefore have to reorganise a committee meeting with other ministers to discuss other issues. We're going to spend a whole afternoon talking again without getting any satisfactory answers. We can play this game for a year. But we'll never get answers. What do you say to people facing insurance? That's what the people who call me and the victims of which I receive the testimony ask me. What should I do with my insurance? How do I get my house back? What should I do with my energy bill? What are you telling them? You explain some plans to us, saying you're going to set up such a committee. [[But, concretely?]] There is even a plan for the withdrawal of the army from the field. People want the army to stay. Some say they haven't seen any authority until now, two and a half months later. They didn't see anyone except the army. They don't want her to leave. They want her to stay. However, the decision was made that the army should leave the field at the end of October. It's in complete contradiction with people's needs. So what are these commissions for? What good is it for us to spend the afternoon discussing, if even the decisions we make are completely out of step with what people expect? Already that we don't answer their questions; and when we make decisions, it doesn't match their expectations. So I wonder what it's for. On the federal evacuation plan, we learn that there are none and that it will be studied to make one; but, on the other hand, the evacuation must be within the jurisdiction of the governor or the mayor. Even that, we don't know. We don't know if it's up to the governor or the mayor to do it. And we have never thought, in our minds, that it would be much more logical, much more effective, as we have seen in Germany for example, that the federal command is dealing with this kind of thing. Didn't it touch your mind? Just to finish – because you can talk like that for hours, but it's not the place or the place – this kind of commission is ineffective. But I'd like to make a proposal that might be a little more enlightening for all of us here. Frankly, every time I talk to disaster victims, I learn things. I think here in this Parliament we are in an ivory tower. Maybe it's normal for us to be completely out of step because we don't realize the reality on the ground. What I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as to the ministers who are welcome, is to hear from the victims. Collectives have organized themselves. The failure of the state has led to the fact that people organize themselves, because the state is not there, does not respond, does nothing. As a result, people took on their responsibilities and created collectives. They thought they were trying to find ways to act. I suggest you hear what these collectives have to say in order to know their real problems on the ground, and what they have been confronted with and what to answer. It's no use doing reviews on your side and study groups or markets... to come after with something that has nothing to do with people's needs. Listen to them! Respond to their needs! I make this proposal and address Mr. President. I hope that it will be put on the agenda of our next committee: to hear these disaster groups, because I think that we must start from there if we want to know what is going on. It is necessary to start from the ground and know what is happening in people and not come here to tarry on ideas and elements without giving the concrete answers expected by people. I'm sorry to say it like this: it was predictable. As I already said, a week ago when the decision was made. And compared to what I said last week, I wasn't disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic592x.u34	Thank you, Mr Boukili. As far as your suggestion is concerned, you know that you can arrange anything during the course of the work. Of course, the committee takes care of its own work. I'll put that in front of you. The other three committee chairmen were apologized today, but I would also like to thank you on their behalf for your presence, Minister Vandenbroucke, Minister Dedonder and Minister Verlinden, and for the many and detailed answers you have given. I am sure that this House will get a follow-up, but Parliament will have to decide on the form. There will be some follow-up questions and Parliament will have to consider whether we will re-examine them in this formula or whether each committee will consider them separately in terms of its powers. I would also like to thank all Members for their contributions.
