ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55018480C by Mrs De Wit will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u2	Mrs Van Bossuyt, your questions relate to contractual relations between companies. As regards the competence of the FPS Economy, only the prohibition of unlawful terms in agreements concluded between undertakings and the prohibition of unfair market practices between undertakings can be pointed out. Apart from that and subject to the existence of specific regulations, I would point out that transport law is a separate matter for which the FPS Economy has no competence. The determination of liability concerns a contractual matter between the two parties. In view of the increasing cross-border nature of transport, particularly in the context of e-commerce, I would point to the existence of the CMR Convention or the Convention relative au contrat de transport international de Marchandises par Route. This is an international convention which includes liability rules in case of damage in the event of loss or damage to the cargo or in case of delay. I'm not aware of any complaints from the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u3	Minister, I am a little surprised that you have not received any complaints about this, because we are even getting complaints from many ordinary SMEs who are now making e-commerce that packages are sometimes damaged and they have to pay for the damage, while the damage has been incurred during transport. You say that there are rules in the field of transport law, so I suppose I could ask Minister Gilkinet about this. If I have understood your answer correctly, you say that the FPS Economy is less competent for this. I understand, of course, that some of the contractual relationships are also involved. As you rightly point out, more and more items are being purchased over the internet and more and more packages are being sent. Until now, it is always the producer or the trader who is held liable if a package does not arrive or is damaged, even if they can clearly demonstrate that the package was correctly shipped to them. I will therefore put further questions to Minister Gilkinet and also consider how we can ensure that traders are better protected or can get a story from parcel delivery services when packages arrive damaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55018806C by Mrs Leen Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Vanbesien. It's nice to see you as president for once. Minister, I have a follow-up question on a subject on which I have been in dialogue with Minister Clarinval several times. In doing so, he has referred to Economics a number of times. That's why I thought it was important enough to put the question to you for once. It concerns a number of foreign initiatives. In Germany it is forbidden to do promotional actions around meat, for example. In France, it is forbidden to offer more than 1 + 1 for free. All this is a concern which I believe we all share, in particular that our farmers are getting money for their goods. If we give them fair compensation for their products, they also have the time and opportunity to make quality food for us. There are a number of leads. Minister Clarinval referred to a practice where, when companies sell at a loss, it is up to the injured party to raise this figure. That's where we sat on our hunger for the answers. There's gotta be more than that. If it is possible in France for the government to take Carrefour to court and impose a fine of more than 400,000 euros on them for selling at a loss, then we must be able to do so. All this in the interests of healthy food and a fair price for our farmers. I have a number of very specific questions about this. What do you think of the French arrangement? Promotions higher than 34 % can't be done there. What is being done here in our country specifically to prevent the sale of food at a loss? Is this ban also being properly monitored and complied with? What happens to transgressions? I know that you will probably also refer to Minister Vandenbroucke when I talk about unhealthy food and a plan about it. I have already talked to him about how we will deal with this in the future. Both Sciensano and Healthy Life say we should go for price strategies, so that the healthiest choice is also the most logical. But in this respect, we are also largely dependent on the economy. Hence my questions to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u6	Mrs Creemers, the sale at a loss is prohibited by the Code of Economic Law. This ban therefore applies to all foodstuffs. The proposal for a European regulation on the common organisation of the market in agricultural products currently under negotiation already provides for a ban on sales at a loss. It therefore seems premature for Belgium to take an initiative to regulate the permitted level of promotion of certain agricultural products. In addition, the Council of Ministers recently adopted a bill prohibiting unfair practices in the food sector. This seems to me to be an important step forward in improving the protection of small producers. A food company will always be able to sell at a loss when the expiry date approaches and the shelf life of the product can no longer be guaranteed. In the last five years, the economic inspection has conducted seven studies on food loss sales. Only one infringement could be found. Several initiatives will be taken against misleading advertising such as greenwashing. A working group led by the FPS Economy, composed of the relevant actors in the food sector, is currently working on guidelines for a more clear designation of vegetarian products in order to provide more clarity to consumers. Your questions about the more general strategy against unhealthy food can be put to the Minister for Health, Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u7	Thank you for the clear answer. Minister Clarinval also referred to the legislative initiatives under way. It's good they're running. In this way we can certainly inspire ourselves on what is happening in the countries around us. We can use France as an example. That is a very good way of saying that our farmers, and especially the small producers, should get money for them. So we give them room to produce healthy food for us. Of course, it is logical that the products are sold at a low price as the expiry date approaches. That certainly fits in with the big plan against food waste. We naturally agree that these products can still be sold. Seven investigations in five years, with one infringement as a result, is little, outweighing the number of major promotions. So we can add a little bit more to that. For misleading advertising and clear name for vegetarian products, we can look at Europe. I have no knowledge of complaints submitted at Test Purchase by people who feel disadvantaged because another term has been used, so I would certainly not lift it too heavily. At European level, there has been a great deal of lobbying. We must dare to promote healthy vegetarian products and certainly not boycott them because they dare to call themselves milk, but we will talk about this at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u8	Mrs. Dierick is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u9	Minister, perhaps permanent members of the Economics Committee have already asked you questions about phishing. In my immediate vicinity a number of victims of phishing also recently fell. My attention was then drawn to the analyses by Ombudsfin, the independent ombud service of the banking sector, on complaints of internet fraud in the light of current legislation on liability in disputed payment transactions. In particular, account shall be taken of the detection or non-detection of the fraud and of any gross negligence on the part of the consumer. Any dispute must first be submitted to the financial institution, which then has the opportunity to propose a solution itself. If this does not produce the desired result for the customer, you can contact Ombudsfin. According to Ombudsfin, more and more problems have arisen in recent months with the application of the 2018 law on the reimbursement of phishing victims. The online scams in Belgium go steeply into the heights. The number of files of phishing victims not reimbursed by their bank is increasing sharply. Customers rarely get a full refund. It appears very difficult to get figures of the total sum that banks would refund to their customers. The bank dome of Febelfin refuses to draw general conclusions. In 2020, according to Febelfin, banks were unable to recover EUR 34 million from criminals. Febelfin lets in in the middle or the affected customers that money was compensated. In any case, there are indications that banks rarely do that. Ombudsfin notes that in 2020 the banks were remarkably often not in agreement with Ombudsfin's independent final judgment or advice, if at their disadvantage. Minister, what is your reaction to this report? What possible remedies do you propose? Are you willing to contact Febelfin about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u10	Thank you, Mr Ravyts, for your question. The problem of phishing is well known. My administration and I, together with the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Eva De Bleeker, are closely monitoring all developments in this area. I also follow closely all court rulings on the reimbursement of victims of phishing and the sharing of responsibility between the bank and the consumer. The liability regime for financial institutions for unauthorised payment transactions, as laid down in Articles 7.43, and 7.44 of the Economic Law Code, is designed to protect consumers. We therefore want to ensure that this regulation is correctly applied. If necessary, the Secretary of State and I will examine the possibility of organising a meeting with Febelfin, in which Febelfin can explain her position and find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for once again highlighting Article 7 of the Economic Law Code in the interests of the consumer, as well as shared responsibility. The issue is indeed more nuanced than it seems at first sight. Nevertheless, I would like to insist that the conversation with Febelfin should certainly take place. Should Ombudsfin continue to state that there is a problem in this area, I am counting on other groups to monitor closely the developments in liability in respect of disputed payment transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55018972C, 55018999C and 55018997C by Mrs Dierick are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you a few times in recent months how far you stand by making the various types of cheques compulsory digital, ranging from ecocheques on consumer cheques to corona premiums. In May, when I questioned you the last time, you referred to the opinion of the National Labour Council (NAR). Indeed, in December of last year, he gave an opinion on a legislative proposal of mine. The NAR also stressed the need to counter the non-take-up of cheques. The NAR asked that, as for meal cheques, ecocheques would also be subject to compulsory digitisation. That is a good slope, which can already contribute to the maximum recording of cheques, although of course not all problems have been solved. You said in May that you were working with Minister Vandenbroucke on a regulatory initiative. That's good. In the meantime, we know that there are consumer cheques and corona premiums, which will be valid until the end of 2022. That is good in itself, but it is a missed chance that these consumer cheques and those corona premiums can be issued both digitally and on paper. If they are issued on paper, there are a lot of people who lose these checks or forget them somewhere. They'll be collecting dust on a closet. The traders also say that it costs them handfuls of money, because they have to collect those checks and go to the post office with them. That is why it is important that we ensure that all cheques, whether ecocheques or consumer cheques, are issued digitally, as is the case with meal cheques, as quickly as possible. They've only been published digitally for a long time, and that's good. The Council of State also said in its opinion on my bill that the money should not remain at the issuing offices, which is still the case today. That is why my questions to you are the following, Minister. With your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, where are you going with the drafting of the regulatory initiative you promised? You said a long time ago that you were working on it. Will it come in the form of a royal decree, or in the form of a bill? If it is a bill, will you come to Parliament before the summer recess? Or will that not work anymore, and will it be before after recess? When do you plan the new regulations to come into force? If it's a royal decision, maybe it can go a little faster. Hopefully before the end of the year. With the digitalisation of the cheques, most of the problems will be solved, but there is still a solution to be found for the piece that remains at the issuing offices despite digitalisation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the social partners in the NAR asked for full digitisation of the ecocheques in their opinion. In the light of this opinion, I and my colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, took the initiative to make digitalisation possible. The royal decision necessary for this is currently being prepared by the FPS Social Security Office in consultation with the FPS Economy. The latter is responsible for the secretariat of the so-called ad hoc advisory and control committee involved in the recognition of electronic cheque publishers. The paper-based corona premium can only be issued by companies which also make the corona premium available in electronic form and have received recognition for it. In this way we want to encourage electronic payments, without banning the corona premium on paper. The royal decree is currently in preparation. Once the text has been finalized, it should be submitted for an opinion to several Advisory Councils. Following the regulatory administrative procedure, the Royal Decree shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. I hope this can be done before the parliamentary recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that it seems that it took a very long time to draw up the royal decision on the digitisation of ecocheques, because I already asked questions about this in December and you were already working on it at that time. That's why I hope it gets there soon. For the ecocheques, that's good. In addition, I think it is once again a missed opportunity not to pursue a complete digitisation of the corona premium and consumer cheques. You say that only companies that also issue cheques electronically are eligible for issue on paper. The possibility of publishing a part on paper, in addition to a part electronic, thus remains, and that is a pity. The traders complain about the additional costs. Consumers lose their paper cheques sometimes and it is not easy to spend them, as the paper cheques have a value of 10 euros each. With an electronic card you can easily spend a smaller amount and retain the rest of the value. So it offers great advantages to also digitally issue the corona premiums and consumer cheques. Can the KB not provide for mandatory electronic issuance, preferably in the short term? An effective date could be set for this, for example the next time we provide for corona premiums or consumer cheques. Only in this way can we counter the non-take-up and prevent workers who are entitled to this from spending part of the money because it is on cheques that they lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u16	Minister, since 1 July 2021, the anti-money laundering law has been applicable to professional football in our country. Since that day, professional football clubs have been obliged to comply with the provisions and reporting obligations under the preventive anti-money laundering legislation. For example, where there are operations that may indicate money laundering or terrorist financing, they should report this to the Financial Information Processing Cell. I would like to get an update on the implementation of this legislation. What is the technical and operational state of affairs? Have the professional football sector and the FPS Economy become ready for the implementation of all obligations and control mechanisms under anti-money laundering legislation? What is the status of the clearing house between the Football Association and the FPS Economy? Also football brokers will soon be subject to the preventive anti-money laundering law, but only after the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the Regions and the federal level. I think they have a six-month grace period. What's the status there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u17	Minister, my question is also about ongoing investigations in the world of Belgian football. I first addressed it to Minister Van Peteghem, and it has been redirected to you. As Europe's attention revolves around the round ball with the Euro 2020, investigations are currently being conducted by the Finance and Economy FPS, notably with the Royal Belgian Football Federation (RBFA), the Pro League and the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF), to objectiveize the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in the football community. The results of the Belgian survey should be translated into a regulation, which will specify the obligations of football clubs and the Federation with regard to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The revelations in the framework of the "Football Leaks" investigation between 2016 and 2018 recalled that, in the world of football, there were still many unacceptable practices (opacity, disproportionate amounts, complex montages, conflicts of interest, etc.) Today, things are moving around the world of football. At the political level, the Belgian authorities must play their part. For example, Minister Van Peteghem has recently acknowledged that in recent years no control action has been launched specifically on football clubs. Ten years ago, the General Administration of Taxation organized information sessions for sports clubs so that those responsible could be informed and better fulfilled their tax and social obligations. This year, a new information campaign was to be conducted, but it was postulated for practical reasons. What initiatives are you taking to clean up practices on these issues in the world of football, including putting an end to opacity and dubious practices, as well as money laundering and economic risks? Are you considering a specific action plan? What are you planning to put in place both at the level of control and sanctions and at the level of prevention? Will you speed up the implementation of the appropriate legislation, as well as the organisation of the information campaign for sports club managers? Are targeted controls planned? If so, how large?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u18	Colleagues, by the law of 20 July 2020, Parliament took the decision to subject the professional football sector to the law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The SPF Economy has been designated as the supervisory authority in this area. In this context, I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to consult with the sector with a view to the implementation of this subjugation. Numerous meetings have already taken place between the Economic Inspectorate, the Royal Belgian Federation, the Pro League and other stakeholders. Subjection is a major challenge for this sector. It requires strict identification of the counterparties. From 1 July 2021, both the football clubs and the Belgian Football Association will be required to carry out risk analyses of their transactions and, if necessary, report suspicious transactions to the Financial Information Processing Cell. The Economic Inspectorate will assist the sector in drawing up its procedures. During a transitional period, the Economic Inspectorate will check that the law is correctly applied. Thereafter, in a second stage, sanctions may be imposed. The legislation is now fully applicable and therefore does not require any further action. The SPF Economy is nevertheless busy drafting a regulation that will specify certain aspects of the legislation for the sector. This applies only to professional football clubs, i.e. clubs participating in the D 1A and D 1B competitions, known as the Pro League. The ASBL Pro League, which federates the clubs concerned, fully assumes, as part of the implementation of the law, its role as the focal point between the supervisory authority and the clubs. The Economic Inspection intends to assist the sector in the implementation of its obligations in the second half of 2021. The checks during this period will again be non-punitive. As from January 2022, sanctions may follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the enlightening answer. It is correct that the football sector faces a major challenge in implementing anti-money laundering legislation. It is necessary to see what Operation Clean Hands has led to. After all, it was found that there is a whole circuit of gray and black money intertwined with professional football. I am very pleased that almost a year ago colleagues supported my proposal to use anti-money laundering legislation for this purpose. Minister, your services have ensured that this is managed properly. I am counting on this to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the area will be accompanied. It is very good to go first through a prevention phase, without sanctions. It is probably important that everyone should first be well informed and that, in a second stage, sanctions should be imposed when there is a persistence. Thank you for your clarification of the implementation of this legislation. I hope that this fair play that we like to have on football fields will find its equivalent in terms of good practice in the management of clubs; I hope that the future will give reason to this legislation and will confirm that the practices have improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I have been questioned by people doing literary translation about the tax treatment which is reserved for the income of their work and specifically translations made under publishing contract, which generate copyright. The originality of the productions of literary translators is proven, each with its own style, with choices that distinguish them from their colleagues. This is a unique and personal creative process. If the original text is creative, complex or original, it will be all the more likely that its translation will also be original. Currently, the SPF Finances regularly rejects or invalidates declarations containing copyrights on works that have been translated on the ground that these translations would not fall within the scope of Article 17, § 1, paragraph 5, of the Income Tax Code of 1992, which governs copyrights, since they do not constitute original creations. This is the interpretation of the FPS Finances. This means that income from translations is ultimately more taxed in these cases than if it had been considered copyright. This approach fundamentally challenges the status of the literary translator and the foundations of his work. She puts lead in the wing of this already poorly paid and often under-considered profession. However, as your colleague Minister Van Peteghem has told us, the fact that a literary translation is likely to constitute a work covered by copyright protection legislation is assessed in the light of the provisions of the Code of Economic Law and therefore falls within your jurisdiction. It would therefore be useful to clarify, in this context, the status of original literary translations in order to fully recognize them as copyright. Minister, can you confirm the analysis that a literary translation involving a creative process, and which is therefore not a technical act, falls within the scope of Article 17, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, i.e. copyright?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u22	Cornet, copyright allows authors to control the exploitation of their creations and thus protect their integrity. In order to be protected by copyright, the work must be the result of creative activity, either in form or original. Original in the sense of copyright is the work that "reflects the personality of its author". The work will reflect the personality of its author if it is determined by the artistic choices that it has been able to deal with different possibilities that presented itself to him, beyond the technical constraints imposed on him. Once the requirements for formatting and originality are met, the creation is protected by copyright without any formality having to be fulfilled. Copyright protection is automatically created by the very creation of an original work. In order to be able to make a translation, the permission of the author of the basic work is required. However, translations may be protected by copyright provided that the conditions of protection - creative activity, originality in formatting - are met. It is ultimately up to the courts and tribunals to assess whether or not a particular work enjoys copyright protection. As with all other works, translations may be subject to a case-by-case assessment in the event of a dispute in order to determine whether or not they are protected by copyright and, in particular, whether they reflect the personality of their author, that is, the translator. Thus, for all these reasons, it does not seem appropriate to incorporate expressis verbis into the Code of Economic Law the assertion that translations are necessarily protected by copyright, this task falling to the courts and tribunals depending on the cases submitted to them. For example, a translation carried out through a machine translation program will of course not reflect the personality of the author. I therefore confirm that translations are indeed subject to copyright protection. However, I would like to point out that the application of the 1992 Income Tax Code, including Article 17 of that Code, falls, as mentioned earlier, within the competence of my excellent colleague, the Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem. I therefore invite you to ask him again if you would like more information on the tax system provided for in section 17 of the Income Tax Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This kind of carousel that you're proposing to me, which is to return to Minister Van Peteghem, who had sent me back to you, may be very interesting, but a little weary. In any case, it will not provide the answers to literary translators who are confronted, each year, with a tax declaration which is subject to challenge. I understand that there are three criteria for an activity to be subject to copyright regulation. You are saying that a computer translation, for example, is absolutely not a matter of copyright. We fully agree on this. It seems to me that you could simplify the way in which copyrights are to be treated fiscally, by means of a circular that would remind us that originality in translation, and thus based on choice, can be subject to copyright. Indeed, several translators contest decisions by judicial means, because their work is of the same order as that of an author. Therefore, different treatment is not desirable. As a result, a circular would provide more clarity. I regret that you cannot go further in confirming this logic, Minister. Nevertheless, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u24	Mr President, Minister, some cities and municipalities with a vaccination centre on their territory contacted me because they all received a bill from Sabam for the music that is played in the waiting area of each vaccination centre. Is this really Sabam's priority? After all, many of these organisations operate on a voluntary basis, taking long days to contribute to a successful vaccination campaign for our country. What action will you take against Sabam's far-reaching controls in the present time? Will you be able to ensure that the vaccination centres do not receive or have to pay an invoice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Farih, Mr De Caluwe, first of all I would like to clarify that the request for payment addressed to the vaccination centres is based on the three management companies of copyright and related rights. This is a joint action by Sabam, PlayRight and SIMIM. The collective management companies have set up a separate rate for vaccination centres. A maximum of 20% of the total surface area is taken into account and there is a limit of 6 months over time. In concrete terms Sabam charges 75% of the annual rate for waiting rooms for copyright collection. For fair remuneration, PlayRight and SIMIM bill 60% of the annual rate for social and cultural activities. Both rates are collected via the Unisono platform. The vaccination centres cannot rely on any of the legal exceptions provided for in Book 11 of the Code of Economic Law. The collective management companies can therefore apply for remuneration for the operation. I cannot intervene in order to stop the controls carried out by Unisono, since the control of copyright and related rights falls within its competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u26	In the event that disputes would arise about the billing, this can be addressed by the cities and municipalities via the FPS Economy hotline. The collective management companies operating in Belgium are controlled by the FPS Economy. The audit authority may take action against infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u27	Minister, you will not be surprised that I do not have to report good news to the vaccination centres. After all, they had expected that they could count on the exception, especially in these difficult times. Anyway, there's nothing we can do but pass on the message. I will certainly continue to follow up where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u28	Mr President, I was indeed hoping for a different answer. You will understand that, but I understand the position. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u29	Minister, last week we discussed all types of bank charges in plenary. I had a specific question about the rejected transactions. The problem is, of course, well known to you. You have also requested a study to identify all costs. You're also working on a solution. Since the announcements, a number of banks have again made price changes. For example, BNP Paribas decided to withhold from 1 July 2021, i.e. a few days ago, an amount of EUR 7.26 per refused transaction due to insufficient balance on the payment account. Those who do not have enough budget at the end of the month and therefore cannot pay an invoice, pay 7.26 euros per refused operation. Costs shall be withheld from the account during the following month. It concerns both transfers, standing orders and direct debits. For those who are having a hard time, the costs can thus quickly rise considerably. An article in De Tijd showed that ING also charges the same cost. At KBC, the costs are slightly lower, i.e. 6.05 euros, while for ongoing contracts, such as the monthly rental contract, no charges are charged. Crelan then charges 5 euros for a rejection of a payment order. The service shall be free of charge if the holder or co-author is 65 years of age or older. It is therefore striking that there is quite a lot of difference between the different banks. In any case, of the 18.7 million current accounts in our country, about 1.2 million were in red by the end of 2019. That's not little and comes down to 6.4 %. These rising costs therefore have a fairly large impact on many customers. According to the industry itself, the price increase is mainly linked to the mandatory VAT. Mr Minister, first of all, just those who are vulnerable and already have difficulty in making payments are faced with fairly high additional costs for something that is mainly administrative. These costs are also increasing more and more. You stated last Thursday that you are close to a solution. I would therefore like to ask you about the current state of affairs. Has anything changed in the last few days? Secondly, the sector always refers to compulsory VAT. Nevertheless, we note that costs are rising very rapidly and that there is a big difference between the different banks. Was the VAT rate recently adjusted? What is the explanation why the banks keep referring to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u30	I have already answered part of your question last Thursday. It is true that banks may charge costs for a refusal of a payment order, provided that the consumer has been informed thereof. Of course, it is not intended that costs exceed actual administrative costs. It has to be reasonable. At the moment, I am not considering introducing a maximum rate for this, but I will continue to monitor the problem. This was also discussed during the consultation with the banking sector on the universal banking service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u31	I am glad that this type of cost is included in that agreement. I understand that not much has changed since Thursday. I'm sure we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u32	Minister, although I would have liked it to be different, we are no longer participating in the European Championship. On the website we-are-one.be, T-shirts and mouth masks with the Belgian tricolor are offered for sale and free flags are distributed within the framework of the European Championships football and the Olympic Games. However, it is not clear that this website comes from a political party. Only at the bottom of the page it is mentioned that it is a campaign of the PVDA. The name is the only information mentioned on the website. For example, there is no address, although that is mandatory. This website could therefore be regarded as non-compliant with the rules of the Economic Law Code. The advertising campaign for the website we-are-one.be runs on social media. Apart from the ethical questions we can ask, the whole campaign could be considered misleading advertising if it was paid by a company to, for example, Facebook. Since the PVDA does not mention that it is the client in its advertisements for We Are One on Facebook, the social network has provisionally taken offline all advertising for the campaign. Mr Minister, the general presentation of the website and the campaign can ensure that the average consumer is not clearly informed, so that he could reach a different decision than if he were informed. In your opinion, as Minister of Economy, is it a question of misleading advertising? If so, what action should be taken? If not, how can we protect the consumer? Political parties are excluded from the provisions contained in Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. However, the campaign does not fully comply with the provisions on distance selling. It could therefore be seen as an unfair commercial practice if run by a company. Given the specific rules for political parties, should this be considered unfair competition? Should companies be protected from this form of unfair competition? If so, are you in favour of a code of conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u33	Mrs Depraetere, for selling merchandising, the Code of Economic Law seems to catalog a political party under the concept of enterprise. According to the Code, an undertaking must comply with the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, in particular the prohibition of misleading commercial practices. A commercial practice is considered misleading if the information provided is factually correct but the consumer can cheat. The consumer may therefore make a decision which he or she otherwise would not have taken. That's misleading. However, the Economic Inspectorate did not receive any reports of this particular practice through its hotline and therefore did not initiate an investigation. Facebook itself asked to make it clear that it was a political advertisement. As regards a-priority checks by online platforms, the e-commerce Directive clearly states that there is currently no general supervisory obligation for hosting platforms to pre-check the content placed by third parties. However, they should act promptly if they are informed of any illegal activity or information. In the future, the Digital Services Act (DSA), currently under discussion at European level, provides for a set of measures to strengthen the transparency obligation for platforms. The DSA will make it possible to step up the fight against illegal advertising. The competent Belgian authorities will be able to send a removal order to the platform in question, even if it is located abroad. The conversations are progressing well. Given the ambitious European initiative that is coming, the introduction of a code of conduct does not seem appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that there have been no complaints about this particular example. It does not seem illogical to me that when it comes to misleading advertising, the consumer does not take the initiative so quickly to lodge a complaint. You emphasise that there are a number of initiatives under way at European level and that a number of actions can be taken in this way. That is good, but in addition, each of us, especially the political parties, must serve as an example and assume its responsibilities. That's fundamental, especially when it comes to something like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u35	Mr President, Mr Freilich, the study was carried out by the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications, the BIPT, the federal regulator responsible for, among other things, the postal market. This study was handed over on 15 March 2021. On 16 March 2021, the study was forwarded to the other Cabinets via the Michel Cabinet. The dossier was then dealt with by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2021. Since it is not my administration, but BIPT, the author of this study, you should address yourself to Secretary of State Michel, who is responsible for BIPT. The concession is still relevant. Its abolition would have many negative consequences, such as an increase in consumer prices, a threat to media pluralism and a major impact on the newspaper and magazine sector, in particular on the smaller non-profit organisations and magazine publishers who rely on the concession as a burden resort to get to the citizen. The Council of Ministers therefore agreed to the launch of a two-stage procedure for a service concession agreement: a publication at Belgian and European level and negotiations for the delivery of approved newspapers and periodicals. The file hasn't been notified yet. The issue is discussed with the legal consultant, specializing in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u37	Mr Vanden Burre is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u38	Minister, you are negotiating with the banks on the introduction of a charter, which will, among other things, meet certain needs, such as maximum rates for physical services. The government will also focus on accompanying policies by increasing awareness of these services and by offering consumer comparative tools. To previous questions on the subject, you have already said that the basic banking system is separate from the system of distribution of ATMs, since the universal banking service is about bank offices. However, I have not yet heard anything about a distribution plan for bank offices. Minister, is access to basic physical services, in particular by ensuring that there are sufficient banking offices in the vicinity of vulnerable Belgians, part of the charter you are negotiating? Can there really be universal banking service if the banks in which that service can be used are difficult to reach by their distance? Self-employed bank agents also inform me that the banks are continuing unbearably the dismantling of their bank office network. Do you think it is fair for the government to send the closure of bank offices in such a way that those in need of digital training retain access to physical banking offices in their neighbourhood? Is the distribution of banking offices part of the negotiations of the working group which is considering the distribution of bank machines in Belgium at the National Bank? Does the National Bank have a similar monitoring tool for the distribution of offices, as it does for the distribution of ATMs? In L'Echo we recently learned that ING is adjusting its pricing and for the first time we will have to deal with a bank in Belgium that charges for the collection of cash in its own ATMs. With this, ING clearly wants to discourage people financially from using cash. But, by the way, just the vulnerable Belgians are still most dependent on ATMs and the use of cash. How do you look at the cash costs that ING announces? Does this not show the need for accompanying policies for the charter for the introduction of the universal banking service? This policy should be more specific to ensure that customers find the most beneficial formulas for their needs. Is it true that, within the framework of the basic banking service agreed on in the charter, you will be able to collect free money from a bank machine 24 times a year? Why has that number been decided? For example, how large is the average number of cash withdrawals today of people who are still heavily dependent on cash, such as people over 65 years of age? Mr Minister, Test Purchase warns that a basic schedule should provide for a maximum rate of charge for all chargeable costs. The organisation argues that, if this does not happen, the providers will increase the total cost to the user in other ways. Don't you think that the expense charge you've never seen before illustrates that? How do you respond to that criticism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u39	Mr President, Minister, you have indicated your willingness to conclude negotiations with the banking sector on universal banking before 21 July 2021, which is a good thing. The Lecho newspaper of 29 June gives us some details on the content of the agreement. For a maximum of 60 euros per year, "non-digital" customers will have to be able to carry out at least 60 manual transactions, 24 cash withdrawals at the bank's ATM and print their account extracts to the agency. The price of this package will not increase by more than 6 euros per year. Test Purchases notes that 24 cash withdrawals per year in vending machines owned only by its own bank is too limited, especially in view of the systematic disappearance of vending machines and agencies. In addition, not only is the mailing of account extracts not included in the package, but the cost is not limited to the price of stamps, leaving the door open for higher fees. Finally, it should be noted that the efforts of the banks are very limited because several of them already offer these services at a price of less than EUR 60 per year. This shows that banks with higher rates certainly do not simply pass on the cost of transactions to the customer, but take advantage of them to make profit margins. The effort on the tariff could certainly have been greater, bearing in mind, in particular, that the price of the package could increase by 6 euros per year. Minister, do you confirm the information provided by L-Echo and Test Purchases? Will you take into account Test Purchases' opinion during the final phase of the negotiations? How will consumers be able to assert their rights to the universal banking service in a binding way to banks that would refuse to grant them these rights, since the option you prefer is not to legislate but rather to sign a charter with Febelfin?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that I intend to set up a universal banking service. It will be an all-inclusive and quality pack. In particular, it will be addressed to citizens who do not use digital services for a number of reasons because they are facing growing problems and rising rates. The number of banking agencies is decreasing and it is important to ensure that citizens can continue to have access to these banking services, which are essential in everyday life. The universal banking service will address the problem of increasing bank charges but will not solve the lack of physical accessibility to local banking services. This is a very important issue for me. My cabinet is working on the file. Discussions are being held with Batopin to ensure that the situation for consumers improves, rather than deteriorates. The issue is also dealt with in the context of bpost's management contract. A solution can be found there so that each municipality is guaranteed to have an ATM. Discussions with Febelfin may begin as soon as the universal banking service protocol is completed. In order to give the negotiation a chance, and in the hope of a speedy conclusion, it is important not to dwell too much on the points that are still under discussion with the sector. I would remind you that the protocol will be binding on all parties that will sign it. If it turns out that this protocol is not respected, I will take the necessary measures, for example a law. Test-Achats was consulted when his petition was handed over and his position was taken into account in the negotiation. I have also consulted the Belgian Competition Authority to ensure that the universal banking service complies with the requirements of competition law. The universal banking service must also be prevented from creating perverse effects by, for example, increasing the price of services which would not have been provided for under the Protocol. The objective is that all banking services necessary for financial management should be priced at a reasonable cost. Mr Vanbesien, one of the problems faced by consumers is indeed the difficulty of comparing the prices of the most representative services linked to payment accounts. In order to address this problem, a comparison tool for the cost of the most representative services is linked to a current account, set up on a site managed by the FSMA. Banks are legally obliged to disclose their tariffs to consumers and the FSMA. It is also important to develop other comparative tools for key banking products. I hope that the negotiations with the sector, which I am conducting together with my colleagues Van Peteghem and De Bleeker, can be concluded in July, if not by September at the latest. If the negotiations on the protocol fail, we can only adopt a draft law. However, this will delay the introduction of the service. I therefore prefer a protocol at the moment, without excluding the possibility of a law. Finally, I would like to say that all discussions in the National Bank of Belgium's working group are subject to the obligation of strict confidentiality, which I respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u41	Minister, I very much appreciate your efforts and I am convinced that we are at a turning point in financial services. Banks adapt to a long period of ever lower interest rates and the consequences are felt in the service sector. The big risk is that a large group, often vulnerable, is hit hardest. These are mainly older people with a digital disadvantage and more often belonging to the poorer groups of society. ATMs to collect cash, and basic physical services are the most under pressure. In addition, I see two major dangers. Access to an ATM or bank office, which is becoming increasingly scarce, is becoming increasingly difficult and, at the same time, there is a need to pay for the use of ATMs or services in the bank office. Today, the standards for the future are being set. If it becomes normal to pick up cash or to get help with a transfer, the situation changes very quickly - then it never disappears. It is therefore important that clear agreements are made with the sector, preferably in consultation, as you yourself say. The political world must define the limits and the necessary accompanying measures. I look forward to the content of your charter, which is an important starting point for forthcoming discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u42	Minister, what I am sorry about is that it remains a charter. If I understand correctly, you're going to wait until there's a problem with legislation. Rather than putting all your energy into drawing up a charter, put your energy directly into legislation. It will be much simpler and we will avoid problems later. Thus, the banks will be obliged. You have put all your energy into legislating at the level of the IPA. Do it now at the bank level!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u43	Minister, your policy statement states your intention to protect citizens better when buying a house or doing renovations. It is an important measure to control the housing situation in our country. I got a report from a civilian who had a contractor convicted of negligence. This isn't a single story, by the way. The contractor in question was then declared bankrupt. He was able to make a reboot, while the duped was left with the damage. The deputy could not rely on his insurance for general construction costs in order to compensate for the high cost of renovation and court fees. In your policy statement, you announced a thorough analysis of the problems and causes faced by consumers in construction and renovation. This analysis will form the basis for further legislative initiatives, such as the modernisation of the Breyne Act. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, what is the situation with regard to the analysis of the existing problems? When can we expect the results? Secondly, what are the anticipated problems with the Breyne Act that you are considering modernising? For example, are you considering extending the scope of the application to include in-depth renovation works? Thirdly, your policy statement also intends to develop more standardised insurance, along the lines of the minimum conditions for car insurance. Do you think it might be interesting to develop a standard insurance for construction risks? Fourthly, in order to meet our climate objectives, the Belgians must speed up the renovation of their homes and make them more energy efficient. Do you believe that the increasing demand for contractors should at least mean that consumers should also be better protected against fraud at an increased rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u44	Mr Vanbesien, it is indeed important to protect citizens better when buying a house or doing renovations. A number of pistes of reflections on the problems cited are currently being examined. It is true that, firstly, the management of the risk of insolvency under the contractor, secondly, the fact that the consumer has to pay significant amounts, while there are insufficient guarantees of properly executed procurement works, and thirdly, the liability regime for procurement works in general. Given the current workload of the FPS Economy and the large number of pending dossiers, an analysis of the different slopes is expected to be completed only in the second semester of 2021. The establishment of minimum conditions and/or standard insurance for construction risks does not seem possible to me, because a construction insolvency insurance was not regulated. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the contractor has to cover his ten-year liability by insurance when he carries out certain real estate work on dwellings for which an architect is required to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The housing market is, of course, a huge market in our country. According to the National Bank, it is even a little overheated and we have to take extra care with that market. Due to the size of that market, it is inevitable that there are also a number of charlatans in the sector. This is particularly dangerous, because for most families it is the biggest investment they will make in their lives. We must therefore protect these families from those charlatans in order to avoid dramas. So I am certainly looking forward to the results of your analysis and the initiatives that can be taken on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u46	Minister, when a consumer moves, his car insurer may want to charge him a higher premium. This may be legitimate because of the statistical finding that the number of accidents in certain municipalities is higher, but insurers link very different premiums to a zip code. The consumer chooses his insurer primarily on the basis of the rates in force in the municipality where he resides when he takes out his insurance. It is therefore logical for that consumer to have the right to move to another insurer at the time of removal and the subsequent change in the premium; The insurer is obliged to make a proposal to the policy holder before a higher premium can be charged. The policy holder then has to give his agreement or can switch to another insurer. Test Purchase notes that insurers often do not apply this principle. More importantly, some insurers prescribe clauses that are contrary to the law, and make it appear that the policy holder has to accept the modified premium. Hence my next questions, Minister. Firstly, how many complaints have been received in recent years by the Insurance Ombudsman, specifically regarding premium increases after removal? Secondly, do you believe that insurers comply adequately with their obligations to segment insurance rates? Does the FSMA exercise sufficient control over this? Will you be more committed to this, taking into account the evolution of the number of complaints? Thirdly, the scope of the laws on segmentation can be extended by royal decree. Do you not think it is appropriate to do this, for example for the omnium coverage, for which the premium is usually higher than for the liability coverage? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u47	Mr President, the complaints about increases in contributions following a move received by the Ombudsman in the last four years are so small that they do not allow certain conclusions to be drawn. The FSMA has no control powers a priori with regard to insurance. This means, inter alia, that the insurance documents should not be checked before they are used by insurers. An insurer may use the residence of the policy holder as a segmentation criterion for charging. For the civil liability insurance car these segmentation criteria should be published on the website. The competence to deal with complaints rests with the insurance ombudsman who has not asked the FSMA to pay particular attention to the issue of the application of the rules on segmentation criteria and on risk increase. Therefore, the FSMA has not undertaken targeted monitoring actions on this issue. Insofar as this would prove necessary, the FSMA will undertake targeted control actions on an ad hoc basis. The situation needs to be objectiveized. I therefore await the outcome of the FSMA's investigation before I comment on the usefulness of making a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that we should first objectify the numbers. On my side, I will also look at how I can obtain more concrete figures on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u49	Mr President, Minister, we all know the principle of basic banking services, which allows individuals who are in danger of falling off the boat to use a number of banking services. In itself, this is a very good measure to be used, but apart from that, many people receive a notice of cancellation every year, which often refers them to the exit after years of loyalty. They may indeed fall back on a basic banking service, but that is a very annoying situation because in many cases the banks cannot or do not want to give up motivation. Clients may ask their office manager why their account is cancelled, but will not receive an answer. Minister, did the FPS Economy know about this particular problem? Are there specific banks where this problem mainly arises? Is this about small banks or large banks? If there is a suspicion of fraud, it is very common to cancel accounts, but what do you think are the main reasons why these clientships are terminated? Finally, what has the government done to stop these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u50	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your question. The problem is known by the FPS Economy, but the number of notifications is very limited. The Economic Inspectorate has so far opened only a small number of investigation files on the termination of a private bank account. In total, six investigations are concerned with breaking the banking relationship with consumers at four different banks. The problem is therefore not to be reduced to one bank. Within its area of competence, the Economic Inspection shall ask the banks concerned each time the reasons for the termination of the banking relationship in order to verify that the bank does not infringe the legal obligations. It is examined whether the consumer is not discriminated against on the basis of nationality, residence or any other basis, as provided for in the Law of 14 June 1981 punishing certain acts of racism or xenophobia. The reasons for termination are often unknown. According to the input received by my administration from Febelfin, the fact that customers refuse to re-enter their identity card after a renewal of the card may be an important cause. Despite many invitations and threats of cancellation, there are customers who fail to do what is necessary. Banks are obliged to verify the identity of their customers and to have a copy of their identity card. No specific measures have been taken at present. The Economic Inspectorate will continue to monitor matters further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic536x.u51	Minister, you say that there is a relatively limited number of reports coming into the FPS Economy. That might be a little problematic. After all, I often hear from people that their account has been cancelled, that they do not know why and that they also do not get a clear answer from the bank why. Of course, customers have to fulfil their obligations, such as reading out their identity card, but with your bank you build a trust relationship, and then it is bad to get sometimes after 10 or 20 years of clientship a registered letter in which the account is cancelled without giving reason. In such cases, banks need to be dealt with hard. We need to do everything possible, and maybe you should also encourage account holders to report it to the FPS Economy. This is how the notifications are recorded. What you see, regarding the six investigations that run at four different banks, is probably just the tip of the iceberg. I therefore recommend that you launch a campaign so that such practices come to light and reach you as well.
