ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u1	I propose that those who have tabled different questions in a particular topical debate, such as Mr Creyelman, should put them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u2	Madam President, how long can the Minister stay? Shall we continue in the afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u3	We were supposed to take a break between 1:00 and 2:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u4	I'll take care of you for lunch. I'm also available this afternoon. I said until 19:00, but ideally, I'd rather stop a little earlier, which might be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u5	The last meeting with oral questions in July had ended after an hour because the Minister had to go to the plenary. We had converted a number of questions into written questions, but have still not received the answers. I suppose the Minister had already prepared those answers and we can expect them soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u6	I should, but I can't say for sure. I suggest you take that with my associate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u7	I will contact Mrs Schellens, or recommend Mr Warmous to do so. Mr Creyelman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u8	Mr Minister, unlike Germany, France and a few other countries, I know that we are for the time being abandoning heterogeneous vaccination. There would be insufficient evidence that vaccination with two different vaccines provides sufficient immunity. You informed us that the Supreme Court was following the case closely and would deliver an opinion at the appropriate time. That was expected by the summer. What is the state of play in this? I would also like to know how quickly the mixprick can be implemented after any positive advice from the High Health Council. Is the so-called mixprick still relevant enough to the existing vaccination scenario of a first and second shot? I understand there's already what she says on that question. That brings me immediately to the question of whether a third shot is being investigated or considered. In this context, the Head of Task Force, Mr Ramaekers, stated that preparations are already being made for the so-called booster shot. Some of the questions have been overtaken by actuality, but they were asked in unsuspecting times. Perhaps you could give us some clarification. What is the state of play in the preparation of the third shot? Is there any more clarity about the need for this? Which target groups are being considered? Are they still elderly people and people with weak immune systems? Is it still considered for others? When would the third shot be given? In the past, I have already questioned you about vaccination through internal, occupational health services or other easy channels. Is that scenario considered for the third shot? What other channels are you considering? Now I think of something that I hope you can answer. When is a person considered fully vaccinated? After the second shot or maybe only after the third shot? What is the status of someone who misses the third shot, for example out of unwillingness or due to a bad response to previous punctures? How does this relate to the Covid Safe Attest? If possible, please provide some information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u9	I, too, had tabled a question on the booster vaccine, as we call the third shot. During the summer months this has already been communicated, but a state of affairs would be useful. There was talk that 280,000 people would be vaccinated with weaker immunity. Can you clarify on the basis of which criteria that choice was made? Can you also explain how patients with weaker immunity will be dealt with who have not received a second shot or even a first shot? We are probably all aware that the vaccination gap in this country is still too large and is a problem. So I wonder how we will reach those who actually need a third shot, but have not yet received a second one. In the press, you spoke about an action plan around the third prick in the Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC). How's that going? What actions have already been taken? How are the conversations with the first line progressing? Will the primary caregivers administer the third shot? How's the High Health Council's advice coming along? How is the third prick registered on the Covid Safe Certificate? Is it registered at all? What is Europe's vision on this? Have you received any instructions on this matter? This morning the Flemish press published that a study in The Lancet would indicate that the health gains made with a third shot do not outweigh the big, global problems of people who have not yet been vaccinated. How does the government see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u10	I won't repeat the whole story of the third shot. My colleagues have already done so in detail. At present, the administration of the third needle is being prepared. According to what we read in the press, the boost dose would provide better protection against the delta variant, although the current generation of vaccines, which are still based on the so-called 'Wuhan strain', are not or less effective against that delta variant. Is a possible third injection given with the same vaccine? Does that even make sense? Are you considering having the third shot given in Belgium? I suspect so, because that has already been discussed in detail in the press. What scientific studies do you base yourself on to claim that a third shot with the same vaccines adequately protects against the delta variant or other variants, which are most likely still to come? Will you clarify the figures of infection and re-contamination, hospitalisations and mortality by dividing the figures by age group and by non-vaccines, semi-vaccines and fully vaccinateds? Half-vaccines are now considered non-vaccines. It is important to get a good idea of this so that the measures can be adapted accordingly. Since you have evidence-based works at the top of your agenda, it is important that we have good grades.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u11	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since June, many publications have spoken of the third dose for immunocompromised patients. In fact, a number of countries had already begun to vaccinate immunocompromised patients or patients with particularly heavy conditions, such as dialysis patients. From then on, I had already pleaded with you for a third dose. The decision is finally made, even if it is late. However, logistics and authorisation issues arise today so that doctors who follow these chronic patients, with very heavy pathologies, can actually vaccinate their patients. This is the case for nephrologists in dialysis patients, but also for other patients regularly treated at the hospital level. Tensions were reported to have taken place between the federal and the Regions to allow it. I want you to clarify your position. It is essential to be able to vaccinate these patients where they are and not to bring them to a vaccination centre. Can we finally speed up authorisations and facilitate logistics so that these fragile patients are vaccinated urgently for their third dose? For the rest, the third dose for the population as a whole is clearly not scientifically justified today, except for elderly, fragile and therefore at risk patients. For these, the benefit of a third dose appears in a series of publications. I would like to see an open debate on this. Finally, we do not have much data on actual efforts to advance immunization globally. There is not only the availability of the vaccine, but also the logistics, the aid to the effectiveness of the vaccination. What is the situation at European and, more particularly, at Belgian level? Not to mention that too many people over the age of 45, therefore the most at risk, have still not received any dose of vaccine in Belgium. So it is to these patients that you, together with the other ministers, must devote your energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u12	Minister, as some of my colleagues have explained, after considering proposing the third dose to people with co-morbidities, the government finally opted to limit this recall to immunocompromised people. We have been aware that the invitations to administer the third dose are already being sent to almost 400,000 people this week in Belgium. In doing so Belgium followed the example of Israel, the United States or, more recently, France and the United Kingdom. However, this third dose is contested by the WHO because it would take up vaccine doses, whereas there is no scientific basis for this third dose, especially to the detriment of poor countries that need it. That therefore calls for a number of questions, Minister. Why was a third dose selected? Do you confirm a loss of vaccine effectiveness? If so, after what period? Is it at the end of three months, six months or other? What sound scientific evidence is behind the choice of immunocompromised individuals? We have learned that the Higher Health Council should give the Vaccination Task Force this Thursday an opinion on the administration of this third dose to seniors, with a decision to be made by the Interministerial Health Conference next week. Can we tell you what you think? Should we not consider seniors to be people with a weakened immune response and should therefore receive this third dose? How many people would ultimately be affected? Is this decision to give a third dose consistent for all vaccines or have you seen a difference in efficacy between them? How do you respond to those who, in the light of this announcement, express their distrust of the pharmaceutical industry's press releases in favour of this third dose? Are there independent studies that can reassure them? Can you clarify the implementation of your decision? Has a clear timetable been set? What about the place of vaccination, because it is true that these are people who are very fragile and therefore encounter great difficulties in moving around? What vaccine would be allowed for the third dose? I hear that only the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines would be involved. For what reasons, knowing that, for example, a patient in this target group could initially have received another vaccine such as AstraZeneca? Can it be estimated that the third dose should belong to the same vaccine given for the first two doses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u13	Madam President, Minister, many Members have already mentioned it. Meanwhile, invitations are sent for the third shot. I agree with the questions put by Members and would have liked to know the following. How and on what criteria was the selection made? Why wasn't it chosen to give all at risk patients a third shot? I am thinking primarily of the elderly, especially the elderly who live in residential care centres. After all, we know that vaccinations often do not work as well for the elderly. There have also been a number of breakthrough infections in residential care centres. My next question does not entirely fall within the subject of the current actua debate. In the meantime, several organisations have called for the corona certificate to be introduced in, for example, residential care centres. If I can, I'd like to know the following. How do you feel about that call? If you cannot answer that question now, I will, of course, retable it at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u14	As a close to the list of speakers, it is now up to Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u15	Madam President, Minister, between 350,000 and 400,000 people with compromised immunity must receive a third dose. That has been decided. Yesterday a first of my patients received her invitation. I would like to highlight the practical problems that arise, and above all the fact that many vaccination centres are closed or are in the process of closing down. How will we ensure that all these people receive their dose? Then, what plans will be implemented for those who have not received their first and second injections? The situation is the same as I have just mentioned. The number of vaccination centres that close is significant. But we are talking about a population that needs to be vaccinated in a place close to home. Globally, I see that at every step we need to re-invent some hot water. I believe that there is a lack of a long-term vision of how we must proceed to reach the different populations in our country, and of the shortcomings that accompany this process. Indeed, while in some regions vaccination rates are already high, in some sections of the population they are not, and the fight must be waged in order not to reach a two-speed society, in which some are vaccinated and sesame, and in which others remain on the tile and find themselves increasingly excluded. It's a real public health problem. I come back to the appeal in The Lancet, issued by experts who alert against the idea of administering a third dose to the entire population, particularly in our country. Where are we in this reflection? They say that this is not necessary, and that it can even reduce adherence to the first and second doses for those who are not yet vaccinated. Finally, there is the issue of immunization at the global level. We'll never get through the pandemic if we can't vaccinate the entire world. This is the debate about vaccine inequality around the world. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u16	Mrs Merckx, this is a topical debate, so I have to ask if there are any other Members who would like to intervene. I see that Mr Bacquelaine is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u17	Madam Chair, Minister, I think the decision to administer a third dose to immunocompromised people is a good decision and is very useful and justified. I think that we should, in the first instance in any case, extend the third dose to people with particularly severe and very high-risk diseases. That said, access to this third dose must be real. It is the most at-risk people who generally have the greatest mobility difficulties. This third dose should be given to the patient where it is found, either by hospital doctors or by general practitioners, especially for immunocompromised persons. What about the possibility for these general practitioners to easily and in good conditions access the vaccination doses required for these patients? That's my first question. My second question concerns the extent of administration of this third dose. What is the situation with regard to the availability of vaccines adapted to the variants? This debate is related. It is important to have information today on the availability, in a more or less distant or near time, of a vaccine adapted to the variants, and in particular to the delta variant. This can also determine the most timely timing of administration of this third dose. Thirdly, my colleague Robby De Caluwé spoke of nursing homes and nursing homes. It is clear that the issue of the vaccination obligation for caregivers arises. Personally, I am opposed to the vaccination obligation for the entire population. I don't think that's a good position. On the other hand, in the case of health-care workers, there is a duty of ethics which seems obvious to me as a doctor. Mr Minister, what about the contacts you have had, in particular with the representatives of the healthcare staff? Would it not be appropriate and necessary today to set the speed higher than this vaccination of health care workers, and to ensure that it is made mandatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u18	Madam President, allow me first to make a number of very general comments. Today we have five different topical debates, all of which relate to COOVID-19. For one piece, the same questions always lie ahead. I would like to make a general comment on this very briefly and would also like to stress that, contrary to discussions we had for the summer period, I will now say a little more often that the responsibility lies with the Flemish, Brussels, Walloon or German-speaking community government. We are now at a time when we are increasingly giving opportunities and responsibilities to our sub-governments to take action. Let me begin, however, with a very general consideration. We are still fighting the virus for a period of time, perhaps even a long period of great uncertainty. The virus circulation seems fairly stable today, but at a high level. In a number of hospitals there is a strong occupation of beds by covid patients, also on intensive care. This is particularly the case in the Brussels-Capital Region, but also in the province of Liège, where today 16% of the theoretically available capacity for intensive care is occupied by people with COVID-19. That 16% in the province of Liège is a lot, because it is about 16% of theoretical capacity, but the actual capacity may still be below that. Not only in the Brussels-Capital Region, but also in other places, we really have to worry about the extent to which the intake of covid patients weighs on normal hospital capacity. It's uncertain what's gonna happen next. This uncertainty requires caution. I would like to say a little bit more about this in a moment, but more generally I would like to stress today that for all the debates that are going to follow, we should try, in view of that uncertainty, to bring out the best of what is in us as people and the best of what is in us is our ability to act on the basis of science, of factual and critical insight, and of our ability to act on the basis of solidarity. Following rules is a matter of solidarity. Vaccination is a matter of solidarity. It concerns solidarity in our own country, but also international solidarity. Much of what is in this committee today, such as compulsory vaccination or not, third shot or not, which groups should receive a third shot and how that will be organised, are issues that need to be dealt with from a scientific point of view. Solidarity must also be organised. Mr De Caluwe, you asked me about the use of the Covid Safe Ticket when visiting residential care centres. In this Parliament, we will soon be discussing amendments on the cooperation agreement that provides the legal framework for the Covid Safe Ticket. We have reached political agreement with the sub-governments on that cooperation agreement. The legal framework will be changed so that the subgovernments will have much more opportunities to use the Covid Safe Ticket as they think they should use it. We do not just give that power to the sub-governments because they ask for it, because they do not always feel that their situation is comparable to the situation elsewhere in the country. Antwerp is not Liège. Ostend is not Arlen. Saint-Gillis is not Saint-Martens-Latem. The subgovernments also want to be able to respond to different situations. That is why they are asking for more of a policy of their own. It is also logical that responsibilities related to prevention should increasingly shift to the sub-governments when we can control this pandemic. It is intended that the sub-governments will be given responsibility, but also the possibility to use the Covid Safe Ticket to visit residential care centres and hospitals. They will be able to use that from the age of visitors of 12 years. They also get the opportunity to use the Covid Safe Ticket at discotheques, museums and all kinds of other places where people meet. The federal government will essentially set out policies related to the basic conditions for public events. But even there, the sub-governments may be able to go further. With regard to the size of public events where the Covid Safe Ticket can be used, the subgovernments will, if they so wish, be able to go beyond the common federal policy. I say this, Mr De Caluwé, because in reply to your question, what is my opinion on the use of the Covid Safe Ticket when visiting a residential care centre or hospital, you should actually refer to decisions to be taken by the Flemish Government, by the Brussels Government, and in the German-speaking Community and the Walloon Region. I would like to give you my opinion on that. The CST is an instrument to ensure freedom in security. I therefore understand very well the demand from, for example, Zorgnet-Icuro to secure the visit to hospitals and residential care centres by asking the visitors to show their Covid Safe Ticket, where those who have not been vaccinated can also visit but have to prove that they have a negative test result and that they are not contagious, or that they have had an infection in the last six months which has left them immune. That's the Covid Safe Ticket. It is not to say: you only enter if you have been vaccinated. I heard that misunderstanding yesterday in the De Aanlen debate. The Covid Safe Ticket says: you have been vaccinated, or you have been tested negative, or you have been infected in the last six months and therefore you still have immunity. I believe that the use of the Covid Safe Ticket in adults, but possibly also in children from the age of 12 years, visiting a residential care centre or visiting a hospital, is all the more necessary if the circulation of the virus in children is not so easy to control. I heard yesterday and today a discussion on quarantine measures for children in schools. That is an important discussion. Once again, we must first listen to what the scientific advice is. Advice on quarantine measures for children in schools has been prepared by the Risk Assessment Group and Sciensano. The Risk Assessment Group also includes people from the sub-areas. It was agreed that these quarantine measures will be reviewed in October. Accelerating this evaluation may be useful, in such a way as to give rapid rethinking of instructions on the quarantine of children in schools. I would like to add the following. If we want to relax the quarantine measures for children in schools, it may be all the more appropriate to ask children from the age of 12 to visit grandparents in residential care centres to show a Covid Safe Ticket, thereby demonstrating that they will not infect their grandparents. If we want to make the control of the viral circulation of children more flexible, we need to ensure more safety elsewhere, and it is all the more logical that visitors should be able to submit a Covid Safe Ticket to a residential centre. If we want to ease the control of quarantine in schools, it will be all the more necessary to ventilate classrooms and rooms in school buildings in general. To those who want more flexibility in quarantine, I would personally ask that we please ensure that classrooms and schools are well ventilated and that there are CO2 meters everywhere to follow that up. These responsibilities no longer lie with the federal government, but increasingly with the sub-governments. It is explicitly their question, and that is also a good thing. The whole of the dikes with which we try to stop the virus must be kept well in order. If we want to tolerate more circulation of the virus in children, then the dikes will have to be strengthened elsewhere, for example by allowing children to enter a residential care centre or hospital only if a Covid Safe Ticket is introduced and by ensuring a vigorous policy of ventilation in classrooms. It always comes down to the same thing: we must be careful, our dikes must be strong. All this must be done on the basis of scientific insight, for which I refer to the work of the RAG and Sciensano on quarantine and to what I will say about the third prick in a moment, and in addition to that scientific insight also the organisation of solidarity. Mr Bacquelaine, I would suggest that I respond to your questions regarding the obligation of vaccination of the care staff in the second actua debate, where more colleagues will ask questions about this obligation. I would now like to say a few things about the famous third prick. You know that the Health Care Knowledge Centre and the Vaccination Task Force have given a favourable opinion to give an additional shot to people with reduced immunity. A reduced immunity may be congenital, but may also be the result of a particular treatment associated with a disease or the result of a particular disease. It is a relatively large group of between 350 000 and 400,000 people. These people will be invited to a vaccination centre by post next week for an additional vaccine. The administration of these additional doses will therefore be carried out at the vaccination centres which remain in service – however, two exceptions are foreseen. For bedridden persons and/or persons subject to strict medical conditions who cannot leave their place of residence under normal circumstances, it will be possible to receive vaccination at home via the mobile team of their vaccination centre. Mrs Fonck, all patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis will be vaccinated in their dialysis centre, as we did in the previous phases of the vaccination campaign. This additional dose only targets immunocompromised patients at this stage and is therefore not extended to all older people. An additional dose of vaccine, to supplement primary vaccination regimens, is indicated for persons aged 12 years and older who have reduced immunity due to a given disease or treatment. Specifically, these include patients with innate immunodeficiencies, chronic kidney failure requiring dialysis, inflammatory diseases treated with immunosuppressive drugs, blood cancers or other malignancies that have been or have been actively treated in the last three years, as well as patients in pre-transplantation, stem cell transplantation and organ transplantation and HIV-positive patients with CD4 cells below 200/mm3 of blood. The organisation will proceed in the same way as in the spring, when people with comorbidities were vaccinated as a priority. Patients not listed, for example because they had not yet been diagnosed with their condition on 31 March 2021, can be added to the list by their regular GP. We can do that for a long time. In the first instance, people should not contact their GP themselves. As of today, September 14, 2021, people can also check with MyHealthViewer to see if they are on the list. If this is not the case, they should only contact their general practitioner or a general practitioner of their choice, to be added to the list. In this way, we are trying to ensure that no one is forgotten for immunocompromised persons in the third injection. I repeat, people are automatically invited by post. They will be vaccinated in their vaccination centre in the following weeks. The main exception is dialysis patients or, where appropriate, bedridden persons for whom general practitioners can be recruited via mobile teams. We have tried to inform everyone involved beforehand. It has also been subject to extensive consultations. The question is whether we should proceed with a booster shot. When we talk about those vulnerable patients who have been immunocompromised, we are not talking about a booster shot of stricto sensu. With a booster shot, we are indeed talking about the whole group of people with comorbidities or the whole group of the elderly. It has already been pointed out that there is a further scientific opinion from the High Health Council on this matter. We really want to work on the basis of scientific evidence. The current debate has asked what the scientific evidence for the booster shot is and what the scientific evidence on the sustainability of the protective effect of the vaccination is. A recent ECDC report provides an overview of current data on vaccine efficacy and duration of vaccine protection against different variants. For Belgium, KCE has recently reviewed the literature on available data from different clinical studies on a booster dose after a primary vaccination program – including efficacy against variants. Therefore, Ms. Rohonyi, instead of repeating the contents of the ECDC and KCE reports, I suggest you consult them on their respective sites. It appears that all vaccines approved within the European Union currently offer very high protection against hospitalizations, serious diseases and covid-19-related deaths. For this reason, there is no urgent need to administer vaccine booster doses to fully immunized individuals. If it is advisable to give an additional dose to immunocompromised subjects, it should be considered an extension of the basic vaccine series, not a booster. As far as the latter is concerned, to date, we still do not have sound scientific evidence, which would indicate the need to organize one – both for the largest group of people with co-morbidities and for the elderly. Of course, I do not rule out that our knowledge and information will evolve or that we will receive a subsequent opinion proposing to organise a booster, but that is not the case at the moment. I agree with what was said again this morning by I no longer know who and who was also recalled in a publication of the Lancet, namely that it is perhaps more appropriate to use the available doses to vaccinate the population of the Third World, instead of organizing a third booster at home. This is a scientific question, which is also a matter of international solidarity. The article in the Lancet seems to me to have some weight and considerable authority, especially since it includes some aspects of the ECDC reports and the literature examined by the KCE. For mixing, people who will receive a third dose will be given an additional dose of an mRNA (Pfizer or Moderna) regardless of the type of vaccine they have previously received. Now we're doing a mix. Several studies suggest that mixed patterns could induce a stronger or more durable immune, humoral or cellular response than homologous patterns against a greater number of variants of the virus. This is no reason to change our original program, which was based on a certified approach. But for the third dose we are going to offer to these immunocompromised patients, the blending approach will be chosen, also for reasons of ease. There were questions from Mrs Sneppe and Mrs Merckx regarding breakthrough infections. You know that a breakdown in age and vaccination status of the hospitalised patients is available in the Sciensano epidemiological report. However, as an increasing percentage of the population has been vaccinated, we will see more deaths and hospitalisations, including in people who have already been vaccinated. So we need to look very closely at how we interpret the figures. It is quite clear that not being vaccinated today is the major risk factor to end up in a hospital, but there are also vaccinated people who end up there. These are often people with underlying conditions, but the risk is much lower when one is vaccinated. You can follow the evolutions in Epistat and it is important to look at the dynamic evolutions shown there. My colleague Wouter Beke has recently in an interview inssed the importance of speeding up the data on hospitalized patients. I fully share his opinion and we are working on it. Mrs Fonck, an autopsy is not carried out systematically in case of death of vaccinated persons. The Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) is not competent to impose an autopsy. However, when the AFMPS is notified of a death, it asks the notifier to send us the results of the autopsy if it is performed. This autopsy report is an element taken into account in the evaluation, but does not, on its own, make it possible to estimate the potential role of the vaccine in the death. In total, four deaths are considered likely to be related to the vaccine in Belgium. This is a case of capillary hyperpermeability syndrome and a case of immune thrombocytopenia likely related to vaccination with Vaxzevria vaccine. The other two deaths resulted from thrombosis and thrombocytopenia syndrome following vaccination with Janssen and Vaxzevria vaccines. Mr Bacquelaine, with regard to the role of general practitioners, I will give a somewhat general answer. Be aware that the Vaccination Task Force has been working for several weeks on the organisation of a possible third phase of the vaccination campaign in which the generalists will play a more active role than they have played so far. General practitioners have always been seen as an essential part of the vaccination strategy because of their relationship of trust with their patients. As has already been mentioned in debates, this relationship of trust is crucial when it comes to addressing the questions that some citizens who are reluctant to get vaccinated are asking. However, the logistical aspect of large-scale vaccination within a very short period of time did not allow them to be used to administer the vaccines. The course of the vaccination campaign, the 18 million doses injected and Belgium's position on the international scene in terms of vaccination coverage are all factors that allow us to think that our choices were the right ones. It is therefore important to guard against making the administration of vaccines by general practitioners a matter of principle. The only justification for this should be relevance and efficiency in the light of the objectives set. This is why the use of general practitioners will only occur in the event that we decide to administer a third dose as a reminder to the general population. In this case, the administration of this third dose should necessarily rely on a panel of mechanisms including the use of general practitioners alongside vaccination centres and pharmacists. We're not there yet! Currently, our efforts are focused on the vaccination of those who have not yet participated in the first campaign (primary vaccination) and on the administration of an additional dose to immunocompromised people. The debate is open as far as pharmacists – who have an active role to play and whose pilot experiments demonstrate effectiveness – and general practitioners are concerned. So far there is a first reaction and a number of broader considerations which are also important for the answers I have to give to the second topical debate on the vaccination obligation, and I will certainly come back to issues that Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Fonck have already touched on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u19	Thank you for the answer, Minister. You're saying that the hospital occupancy rate for covid patients is rising again. I heard this morning in De Morning that the number of covid patients in the hospitals is falling. I found that striking. You claimed the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u20	I said they've gone up. We are in stabilisation, but I would like to point out that it is about stabilisation in a number of regions at a very high level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u21	Then I misunderstood you. Thanks for the clarification. Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Merckx already referred to the studies of the top experts of the FDA and the WHO in The Lancet, which would show that the potential benefits of a third shot would not outweigh the vaccination of the people in the poor countries. They're gonna send in to supply COVAX, if I've understood that study correctly. For those of you who have the creed that we are protected only when we are all protected, that is something to be reckoned with. In Israel there is a study that makes firewood out of the study in The Lancet. You must have read that, too. I can only conclude, Minister, that there is very little scientific consensus. The question then is how much use that third shot has. You say you rely on science. In all modesty, I wonder what scientific consensus that is based on. I will read this on the various websites on which the studies can be read. With regard to the practical organisation of the third injection, I am disappointed that you do not opt for the obvious and easily accessible channels, such as the general practitioners. That does not seem to me to be a bad idea in places where vaccination centres are closed. I also had a question about the definition of 'completely vaccinated'. What happens if someone misses a third shot or doesn't want to? You did not answer that question, which I understand, because I added them on the spot, but I hope that a great deal of clarity will be created on this, because it cannot be the intention for these people to be unclear about their status and they do not know where they stand. I would therefore like to stress that you are also taking the necessary initiatives and communicating with those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u22	Minister, I would have liked to make one comment on your first general answer. You mentioned the Covid Safe Ticket for children. One problem that arises is that when a child receives a Covid Safe Ticket, and thus has undergone a test, that ends up on the Covid Safe App of the parent. This implies that children aged 16 to 17 could not go to their great-grandparents in a residential care centre. They can't just participate in some kind of activity. This is therefore a difficulty which must be considered, regardless of its ideological approach. As far as your answer on the third injection is concerned, I have read that Professor Van Damme said that it should not be applied as long as we see that there is sufficient protection against serious disease. I think there is scientific evidence for that, but the message should be here and now that we should be ready to administer that third shot immediately, when we see that there is a danger to public health. During the first wave the problem was that we were not ready and that we could not switch from today to tomorrow to the administration. So the vaccines have been ordered, but when will you have them? When can you guarantee a roll-out of the third needle if it is established that the protection is no longer sufficient to prevent serious disease? So this autumn's work is that we can switch, that we are not late, that we have enough vaccines and that the first line is involved. After all, I am convinced that the boost can be given through the first line. In short, we must be able to take action immediately, whenever necessary. As far as the elderly and the weaker patients are concerned, I would like to warn you about the following. Although it has not yet been chosen and there are studies that contradict each other, you are right in saying that, perhaps we should look at tailor-made care and try to determine the (...) of the patients in one way or another. I know that this is a very great effort, but we cannot afford to give certain groups of patients a third shot and take a risk with them, without losing sight of the overall picture. Our society has made very great efforts and so has our care providers. We cannot run the risk that these efforts will be reversed by not being ready or not being careful enough. I believe that it is the responsibility of the government to be careful with our patients, to ensure that they have protection, and that they can rely on the government to get that protection. Then I come to the study in The Lancet and other scientific publications. We all know that science is not a black and white story. Science is always research and interpretation. We will also have to make a careful decision here. I fully understand that the roll-out to third world countries must take place. That is why we support the COVAX initiative. However, if our country were to decide that it would not vaccinate our vulnerable patients, our elderly people, for the benefit of the global distribution of more vaccines, then we should also be sure that the administration of these vaccines can be guaranteed and that in the countries where there are cultural and ideological barriers will be resolved. We must ensure that there are patients, but that there are also care providers who can administer the vaccines. It's not easy. I understand that it is not easy for you, as Minister of Health, to make decisions, but I would encourage you to be careful and make sure that our patients have access to the third boost, if necessary. We are also, of course, taking part in the COVAX initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u23	Mrs Depoorter, you have even managed to defeat Mrs Rohonyi in passing time. I call for some discipline, colleagues. It is, of course, a long time since we debated this and we are happy to debate it, but let us try to stay more or less within time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u24	I will not go into the reply from our colleague anymore. Of course, I agree with his view, but I would like to go back to a general consideration. Minister, you say that it is time for the regional entities to be given more power. Indeed, vaccination is preventive, and that is indeed a regional competence. Although I hear that the Flemish Prime Minister said a few weeks ago: "We do not have a coronapas," you put quite a bit of pressure on the regional entities to press your line. I would like you to take the floor and leave the powers of the regional entities to the regional entities and not to interfere with them. By the way, when does the federal phase end? Will we stay in the federal phase until the end of 2024? Maybe I should put a new question to you, because you probably won't answer it. About the coronapas you wanted to clarify that not only vaccinees can enter. That is indeed the theory. According to this theory, there are three possibilities for getting the green light, but in practice, of course, it is a question of being vaccinated. Those who have not been vaccinated, for whatever reason, must be tested. 55 euros per test, Minister, 55 euros! In my view, it is clear that in future only vaccinees will be welcome. Thirdly, on the coronapas in residential care centers, I can follow you a little bit. Yet my social heart calls you back to order here too. Residents of residential care centres are already suffering from loneliness, many of them are already lonely. You want to restrict the visit, which is already very minimal, even further. I don't see what you're trying to do with that. Most elderly people are double vaccinated and therefore protected. Please allow their grandchildren to visit without restrictions if they can and will. Give them the opportunity to visit without their parents. The green light appears in their parents' app, which would mean that children should always visit together with their parents. However, a sixteen-year-old can easily hop on the bike to visit Grandpa or Grandma, which will not work in this system. Minister, I would like to hear you say that there are three possibilities, but in the end you are forcing people to be vaccinated. Then be so honest to admit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u25	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I really regret that the Regions and Communities have not put in place simple measures, such as the installation of a CO2 sensor in each classroom or nursery. Ventilation and barrier actions remain crucial because it is the combination of vaccination and the decrease in virus circulation that will allow us to make positive progress, especially because of the progression of the delta variant and other potential variants. As regards the administration of the third dose of vaccine, I will first mention the categories already included, patients with severe pathologies, immunocompromised and dialysis patients. The exceptions you have provided for passing through the vaccination centre are not sufficient. I am thinking in particular of the transplant patients who go to the hospital twice a week, as well as of the patients who go to the day hospital very regularly. Let's try to be effective: let's vaccinate where patients are! It is for the benefit of everyone, both public health and patients of course. Minister, I would ask you to look at things with much more flexibility from the reality of patients and caregivers rather than from theoretical guidelines that, let me tell you, do not take the field sufficiently into account. As far as the population as a whole is concerned, we agree that a third dose is not justified. However, I believe that the question of this third dose clearly arises for the older people. There is also a famous paradox, since today we accept that infected people should be taken into account in the health pass, provided that they were infected less than six months ago. However, it has been shown that people who have been infected have more effective immunity. In addition, the oldest patients were those who were vaccinated the earliest. So it's been more than six months for many of them, with a known form of immunosenescence. Therefore, the question of this third dose in elderly patients arises clearly so that they can be protected again. The issue of global solidarity is important, but 2.5 million doses are currently in stock in Belgium. We cannot therefore say that we are going to draw on the world and penalise other countries. I will conclude my speech by referring to the situation of general practitioners. The authorities wrote to them saying they could vaccinate. But there are major obstacles. Nothing is done at the logistical level precisely to facilitate and allow vaccination by general practitioners. So, Minister, I would like to plead with you to facilitate the possibility of immunizing for general practitioners on a logistical level. This is your responsibility as well as that of the Regions. It's been a long time since I pleaded for doctors to do so. Now that you have agreed, it is also crucial to facilitate the implementation of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u26	Madam President, first of all, I do not want to provoke a procedural incident, but the Rules of Procedure do not limit our speaking time to two minutes for the matter. There is a five-minute overall speaking time for the question and the minister's answer. From the moment the minister's response is extremely long, I think that some flexibility should be allowed to Members. All the more so as we finally addressed other topics, which were those of our initial questions. We referred, for example, to the Covid Safe Ticket, which the minister considers to be the responsibility and responsibility of the federated entities. In this respect, I find that we do not respond to the observations made by the Covid Special Committee. In particular, the Commission has identified a real problem, which is the result of the break-up of competences. Here I note that the lessons learned by our special Covid commission have not been learned. With regard to vaccines and the third dose, since this was the subject of our questions, first of all as regards the target audience, I should like to commend the work of transparency which will allow everyone to check whether they are concerned with the administration of this third dose, while knowing that it will really be necessary to communicate to the citizens about this possibility. On the other hand, as far as the elderly are concerned, I hear a reluctance on your part, in any case a lack of enthusiasm. However, I think it is essential, because it is scientifically proven that aging significantly reduces immunity, but also because seniors were vaccinated at the beginning of the year and it is now well known that the effectiveness of vaccines decreases over time. I believe that we should not choose between the protection of the elderly and vulnerable, and the duty of solidarity towards the poorest countries. With regard to the place of vaccination, I welcome the fact that the most vulnerable people will be able to be vaccinated at their place of residence, hospitalisation or follow-up. On the other hand, I regret that once again we are depriving ourselves of the expertise of general practitioners, in any case for this third dose, when they are now entitled to vaccinate in their practice. This is the case in Brussels and Wallonia and will be so from 15 October in Flanders. With regard to the type of vaccine used, your answers are transparent, but I am concerned about the population's adherence to the vaccine. It has always been said that the same type of vaccine should be used for both doses. If it is a messenger RNA vaccine, today we learn that mixing would ultimately be a better solution and would increase immunity. We will therefore have to do a great deal of pedagogy with the population, which will again receive contradictory messages, even if it is also the nature of science to evolve. I know very well, Minister, that there are studies on vaccine effectiveness, and I am of course taking this into account. But the question now is to what extent these studies base your decisions and those of the government. For example, why would this third dose only apply to Pfizer and Moderna vaccines? I did not get an answer on this. Finally, I also did not get any details on the timetable. For example, it is known that in France, the previous injection must have been made for at least six months. It seems to me that in Belgium there has not yet been any clarification as to the timing of this third dose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this sitting I announced that I would not weigh the speaking time allowed on a scale. The previous meeting dates back a long time ago and a lot has happened in the meantime, so everyone needs to express themselves. Well, I'm asking for a little discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have said that there will be more responsibility for the Länder and I also think that this is good at this stage of the pandemic. The extension of the presentation of a Covid Safe Ticket, for example in residential care centres, will certainly help in some regions, as many at risk patients sit together in residential care centres. In other regions, this need may occur less. However, I insist that we should try to avoid a general extension of the Covid Safe Ticket. It is therefore a good thing that responsibility will lie with the regions, as they can conduct a tailor-made policy. With regard to the third point, I would remind you that, from the outset in the vaccination policy, priority was given to maximum protection for the most vulnerable as soon as possible. First we gave the opportunity to the care staff, so people working in the care sector were the first to be addressed, given their frequent contact with vulnerable people. Then the elderly and the younger patients at risk were the next ones. It is therefore logical that we should now focus on those for whom a third shot makes sense, especially those with immunity problems. I understand from your reply that, as always, you are making the decision on this subject dependent on scientific input, which is good. In the meantime, we must not forget that the fight against COOVID-19 is taking place worldwide. Some countries are more difficult to buy vaccines, especially low-income and middle-income countries. It is important that we help these countries through COVAX. So we should not waste vaccines and should not use vaccines to vaccinate people for whom it makes no sense to give a third shot at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u29	Minister, I would also like to return to your introduction, in which you announce that you will tell us more often that the regions will have to solve it. Mr de Caluwe seems to think this is a good idea, but I wonder if you have learned anything from the covid crisis. All governments together, that really is a Mexican army. There is a lot of palavering, but very few decisions are made. They're improvising. In this way, everyone can always say that someone else has to take responsibility. That's not gonna get us there. That cacophony will continue. It seems as if no Brusselser has a grandmother in a rest home in Wallonia or in Flanders, as if colleagues working together on a desk in Brussels and from Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia will never get a pint together. You say we should base ourselves on science. Doesn't that corona virus suddenly cross a language line anymore? Isn't that passed on from a Fleming to a Waal? They can't infect each other anymore? That's not how we get there. That approach means that we always have to improvise again. The third dose will be administered by mobile teams. There are no mobile crews in my region. GPs had to do it on their own. Then who's responsible for taking care of that? The biggest problem is the first and second doses. A lot of people haven't gotten it yet. It's a problem for everyone if we can't fix it. Who's responsible for that? How come the general practitioners are still not able to vaccinate properly and easily today, while the vaccination centres close? Who's responsible for that? Apparently, no one. You didn't mention that vaccination retardation. Every region has to solve it. I don't know what the plan is or what the plan is. That's not how we're gonna get out. What lessons do we learn from the covid crisis? Where's the ventilation of all the rooms, the gyms, the schools? Who is responsible for this and how will we solve it? We will certainly not solve that by means of a Covid Safe Ticket that is used in a different way in Wallonia than in Brussels or Flanders. There's no way we're gonna get out of this. We really need a unit of command and we need to effectively ensure a good strategy of public health. We certainly do not get there by labeling non-vaccines as selfish and moving forward. This is not how we get there, because the virus continues to circulate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u30	Madam President, I wanted to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u31	Mr Bacquelaine, this is not possible in the context of a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u32	Madam President, Minister, in the past I have questioned you three times about compulsory vaccination for care workers. After a long push, in December last year, you answered the question of whether vaccination against COVID-19 should not be added to the list of mandatory administrations for the care staff. Mr Van Damme said at that time that care workers should be encouraged to be vaccinated, but that, in the event of little or no result, it was necessary to consider making vaccination against COVID-19 compulsory for the care staff. A while ago we could read that the legislative machine would have started to do this, with a transitional period of two to three years. You mentioned in the media that you changed the gun on the mandatory vaccination of the care staff. What initiatives are you planning or are being carried out to increase the vaccination readiness of the care staff? Are you planning to add the vaccination against COVID-19 to the list of mandatory vaccinations, as defined in a 2017 KB? Will you possibly do so in a different way? In the Netherlands there was the slope to deny unvaccinated care personnel access to certain parts of a hospital. Is that a valid alternative for you? Why or why not? In addition to the obligations for the care staff, the GEMS voted to introduce a far-reaching vaccination obligation for hospitality staff, teachers, professional athletes, etc. How do you feel about that advice from the GEMS? I would like to be clear about the July Prime Minister's press release stating that a minimum threshold of 70% vaccination was applied in all municipalities as a stepping stone to a complete vaccination of the population. What are we supposed to mean by "disappearance"? Does that mean a full vaccination rate, with mandatory vaccination for the whole population? Finally, I would also like to have your view on mandatory vaccination for athletes. I have an open question on that. Does the risk-benefit analysis show that it would be useful for young, healthy people such as those athletes to impose an obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u33	Mr Minister, I am, of course, joining Mr Creyelman. After you were asked the same question three times, you answered clearly that there would be no compulsory vaccination in the care. In the meantime, we know that you have changed your mind again and that you would like to see compulsory vaccination in healthcare. You said that you will take a final position after consulting the employers' and employees' organisations, but we are already hearing contradictory reports from the sector. Some are in favour, others are against an obligation, hence some questions. Which organisations were asked for advice and what was their advice? Do we have access to these advices? We know that the problem arises mainly in Brussels. Vaccination is also a regional competence. That's what we were talking about earlier. Then why is the urge to require vaccination in all regions? Where is the urge to force your opinion on the Prime Ministers and the competent ministers of the regions? In May 2021, the prevalence of antibodies in healthcare was 97 %, according to Sciensano figures. I therefore wonder why there is still a need for an obligation in the care sector. For that 3 percent? What scientific studies are you basing yourself on to put the obligation on the agenda? I'd like the references to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u34	Minister, in terms of public health, it is obviously crucial that 100% of caregivers be vaccinated. In fact, clusters are clearly formed in health care institutions – both in nursing homes and in hospitals. Recall that this phenomenon is not necessarily due to unvaccinated caregivers, even though it is essential that they be. The question is, therefore, how to achieve this. In early July, you announced the obligation to publish coverage rates per health care institution. Two months later. In practice, your announcement stayed there. So I'd like you to shed some light on this. Are these data known? Do you have any? If so, why are they not made public? What's blocking it? Is it still a ping-pong game and a lack of commitment between the levels of power and the various ministers? That would obviously be deplorable. On the other hand, I am particularly concerned about one aspect. It is called a vaccine obligation for caregivers, but without taking into account the immune status of those who have suffered covid, who have not necessarily passed a PCR test. Therefore, is it not essential to be able to determine the immune status of those who are not vaccinated? If they have been affected by covid, it would be illogical – in my view and on the basis of current scientific data – to impose a double dose of vaccine on them. I thank you in advance for clarifying this point, because it is likely to take better account of the reality of each caregiver, so as to be able to open a more constructive dialogue with caregivers who have not yet been vaccinated – with the aim that they will all be vaccinated in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u35	Mr Minister, my question is indeed somewhat out of date and is in line with what the previous speakers have said. What is your opinion on the GEMS proposal to consider extending the vaccination obligation to other occupational groups? Which professions would this possibly involve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u36	Minister, my questions echo those of my colleagues, and follow the decision of the last Consultation Committee to make vaccination compulsory for health care personnel, which seemed to satisfy the vast majority of the staff in question. However, this decision raises many questions as to the terms and conditions. First of all, what steps have been taken to try to convince health care personnel to be vaccinated before deciding on their compulsory vaccination? Can you tell us what you mean by carers? Can this concept be considered to include, for example, caregivers, physiotherapists, persons working in the field of home care, persons transporting the sick? Is there an opportunity to extend this vaccination obligation to other home-based services such as family workers and domestic workers? I'm also thinking about service titles, people with close contacts like hairdressers, beauticians, servers. Will you extend this obligation to teaching staff, nursery staff, firefighters, paramedics, police officers? How do you respond to employers considering imposing vaccination on their staff? Secondly, the question of control and sanctions is also fundamentally problematic. This is probably a point of tension in the discussions you have, particularly with the sectors concerned. What about today? How will you manage these aspects, especially for those sectors that face a certain labour shortage? What is the status of the social dialogue you have announced? What is the timetable for the implementation of this obligation, both in law and in practice? How do you respond to those who are advocating today for a general obligation to immunize? I hear voices rising here and there. Will this issue be discussed in the Consultation Committee this Friday?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u37	Minister, the issue that has been raised is a little broader than that of the vaccination obligation. First of all, as far as healthcare workers are concerned, Mr Ellendorf, a trade union representative, explained this morning on the radio that this possible obligation is not well lived by many caregivers. Where they were considered heroes, they are now pointed out as responsible for the infections. You said you wanted to publish the vaccination rates. But has extensive work been undertaken to understand the reluctance? What are the returns from the field? How is this going? Having the answer to this question will help to better understand the reasons for the hesitation of some of the caregivers. After the care staff, the debate on vaccination is expanding to include teachers, nursery staff, etc. A week ago, on RTBF, Mr. Marius Gilbert said that the vaccination obligation was an easy solution and would not solve the fundamental problems, because crisis management was based on short-term considerations and the people concerned were not involved in communication or decision-making. This is not a way of looking for a structural solution. I'm pretty much in agreement with his analysis. The debates are intertwined. Our country does not have a preventive health system that can reach the entire population, a system in which patients would have confidence and the presence of the former would be stronger. As a result, we remain in improvisation and urgency. It seems to me that we cannot only talk about vaccination, but that we must extend the debate to the management of the epidemic in general. The quarantines still exist and will continue to exist for a good time. In this case, people fall to 70% of their income. I have also tabled a number of questions on other aspects of the fight against epidemics. For example, according to Sciensano's latest bulletin there are over 8,000 high-risk patients, of which only 6,000 will perform a test. Within that group there is a very high positivity ratio of 17 %. We must therefore note that we are still missing a lot of people and that the tracing system is still not closing the gap. What is happening to solve this problem, or have we given it up completely? For example, should the tracing strategy not be changed? There is the delta variant, which I asked a question about two months ago, but which has not been discussed. We know that variant is much more contagious. Tracing only goes back two days. Some experts, such as Emmanuel André, have stated that in case of contamination with the delta variant it is necessary to return seven days and to seek out contacts during that period. Why hasn't the tracing strategy changed? I'll finish with the problem of the source research. According to Sciensano's bulletin, one person on the two states that they do not know where he or she has contracted the coronavirus. Apparently, the story ends there. The source research is still nowhere. Those are aspects that really need to move forward. What measures will you take in this area in general? I apologize for my long explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I would like to remind you that we are working in three stages in the vaccination of the care staff. First of all, we have made a huge effort to raise awareness, information, debate and listen to people. That's what we have to do. I will not list all the initiatives that have been taken. That would lead me too far. However, that first stage was very important. It is also important to discuss with people and listen to their concerns and objections to vaccination. The second stage is transparency. I will tell you more about this in a moment in my reply to Mrs Fonck's questions. The third stage is the stage where we say that it should be clear to people working in the healthcare sector or in the healthcare sector that they are protecting their patients, the vulnerable elderly, with whom they deal daily, by vaccinating themselves and thus protecting themselves. That should be obvious for those working in health care. That is an obvious duty, and there comes a time when this kind of obvious duty is actually being converted into a statutory general obligation. That moment is now upon us. It is, in fact, the third stage. The first is informing and raising awareness, the second is transparency, the third is a legal framework for a general obligation for care personnel to be vaccinated. Today, I have very few answers to answer a number of questions. After all, we have been very explicit in our intention to seek advice and consult on this general obligation. By the end of this month, we want to receive the advice of the High Council for Prevention and Welfare at Work, the National Labour Council, the A Committee for the Public Sector, as well as the High Health Council and the Federal Council for Hospital Services (FRZV). On the basis of these opinions, we will shape the legal framework. Meanwhile, I have also set up a working group led by Professor Tom Goffin. It now looks at all possible legal problems: what legislation is applicable? For which target groups is the most appropriate type of legislation? I do not want to say anything about this today, because the working party is still in the investigating phase, but above all because the legal framework must be based on the opinions we will receive and on the social dialogue we are organising. I would just like to say at this point that it will not only be about employees, but also about those who work in health care with a self-employed status. As far as I am concerned, we cannot limit it to those who work in an institution, hospitals, residential care centres, etc., but also to physiotherapists, doctors and general practitioners in the outpatient sector, for example. This standard is evident to them too. However, it does not make the debate and the reflection on the legal framework any easier. Mrs Fonck has asked a question that is a little bit of the scientific advice that we are waiting for and that we are about to receive. However, I want to give a more general answer about those who have been infected. I believe, Mrs Fonck, that, as with all citizens, having been infected with covid-19 does not confer sufficient immunity or as high as that provided by vaccination, particularly in the face of the delta variant. This is why a complete vaccination regimen is recommended for everyone, including those who have been infected. Personally, I believe that the same reasoning will be valid for caregivers in this debate. Again, wait a little for the opinions we will receive! They will be an element of response. The wider debate on compulsory vaccination in other sectors, let alone compulsory vaccination for the whole population, is undoubtedly interesting as a theoretical debate, but not really the issue. I am now more interested in result football, in action and in decisions than in conducting a very theoretical debate. There's a lot to say about that. I read scientific publications highlighting the fact that a general obligation might be counterproductive because one actually has to work on the basis of trust. The people who don't like being vaccinated are typically people who the government doesn't trust. It's often connected. A government that tries to solve that by requiring vaccination may make the problem worse instead of solving it. That's what I read in scientific publications. That too, however, is a very theoretical debate. I do not see how tomorrow we can organise compulsory vaccination for the whole population with a positive result. Let us stick to what we can do, and that is an obvious standard for health care workers to translate into general legislation. As far as transparency is concerned, Mrs Fonck, I think we acted early. There are two projects in this area. A project is coordinated by Vlaams Instituut voor Kwaliteit van Zorg (VIKZ), AVIQ and COCOM. It is a project which aims to invite institutions (hospitals and nursing homes) to present the vaccination coverage of their staff, not only the employees, but also those who have an independent status but who work in these institutions. It's an invitation. I always said it wasn't an obligation. It's an invitation. We're acting on a voluntary basis. But I think this invitation is important. We have made very important progress. The publication of vaccination coverage at the level of care facilities, on a voluntary basis, must of course present validated, correct and consistent data. Vlaams Instituut voor Kwaliteit van Zorg has worked extensively in this area. The procedure has been fully operationalized. In Flanders, establishments enter an updated list of staff in a secure tool, including the national registry number, the region and the employment category of all staff currently under contract. This data is downloaded via a secure Zorg-Gezondheid platform, which then links them to the vaccine status available in Vaccinnet. For employees not residing in Flanders, the coupling with Vaccinnet will be established by Sciensano. The coupled data are reported in an aggregated report to the Vlaams Instituut voor de Kwaliteit van Zorg, to the participating institution and to the responsible occupational health department via a secure server. The first publications are expected in the coming weeks. I think that will be very interesting. On the francophone side, we are also working on this issue with AVIQ and COCOM services. I hope that on the francophone side, we will soon have the concrete results with this first publication project, on a voluntary basis, at the level of care facilities, of the vaccination coverage of all staff, including the self-employed, with still an important level of detail, but obviously anonymized. On the Dutch-speaking side, the first publications are expected next week. This indicator will be measured on a quarterly basis. Mrs Fonck, the second project is a little different because it is a widespread project. This is not done by invitation. For this project, data are collected automatically for all health care facilities. On the other hand, this project is a little more limited because it focuses on employees. I explain: this project is coordinated by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) and aims to illustrate the vaccination coverage of salaried employees, in hospitals and rest homes at macro level. This second project uses the DmfA (Multifunctional Declaration/Aangifte Multifunction Declaration) database, a quarterly declaration to the ONSS concerning employees, coupled with Vaccinnet+ through eHealth in order to know the aggregated vaccination status by age group for each institution and employer pseudonymized. Only employees are included. It will not be possible to make a distinction by occupational category. The advantage of this second project is that all health facilities will be included. We will discuss this at the next Interdepartmental Conference of Ministers of Health. In particular, we will discuss how the data will be processed. These are, of course, anonymous data at the individual level. All health care facilities will be listed in this database, but the focus is on employees as a link between DmfA and Vaccinnet data is used. September will therefore be the month of transparency. This is important because it can be encouraging for everyone to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u39	Minister, it is time for the government parties to speak with one voice. With his ruling on vaccination for the entire population, the Prime Minister gave the impression that he was moving towards compulsory vaccination, but a few days ago he stated in the media that he was not in favour of it at all. Mrs Almaci, President of the Green Group, did not say "We are not at that stage'. She may not be part of the government, but Green certainly is. You yourself have also made certain statements, and I certainly have the impression that both you and the Prime Minister are not introducing compulsory vaccination because you are struggling with practical objections. A clear communication seems to be a real problem. I have just asked you for the fourth time about the mandatory vaccination of the care staff. The first two times I did not get an answer, the third time I received an answer from you in the second round of a topical debate, but you were apparently slightly irritated because I kept asking the question. In August, you stated in the media that you changed your shoulder and you confirm that today. Then we are all terrified that politics is getting a bad name and that people doubt what is being said in Parliament. I'll finish with a modest tip. For the time being, there is still freedom of choice regarding vaccination in Belgium, unless one is working in health care apparently. I am a very great supporter of that freedom of choice. Would it not be better for us all to have respect for each other's decisions: respect and understanding for people who have decided to be vaccinated, respect and understanding for people who have decided not to be vaccinated and respect and understanding for people who have decided not to be vaccinated at all? Is that not better than, on the one hand, some kind of implicit witch-hunting, and, on the other hand, I'm going to be a bit of a turn-off on non-vaccines and, on the other hand, all respect and understanding for people who have been vaccinated and who are accused by the other side of being brainless herd animals injected with nano-robots or something like that? Respect and understanding can calm down the vaccination bias that is still there in our society. Both camps should listen to each other. That would perhaps even solve some of the problems and put an end to the war that is now in progress. One side stays deaf for the other side. The mutual trust that you yourself are advocating might grow through it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u40	You think it is a kind of duty for the caregivers to be vaccinated, for themselves, but also for the other. You read scientific studies and the like. There is already a consensus that vaccinees can still be infected and the virus can still be transmitted. So I wouldn't protect the other. Vaccines now assume that anything is possible and that anything is allowed. I hear in the care that this is a problem, both in patients and nurses, caregivers and so on. People first let themselves be vaccinated for the other, but eventually science caught up with this. They let themselves be vaccinated so that they wouldn't get sick themselves. Some are afraid of getting sick and are vaccinated to avoid getting sick and end up in hospital. Others are vaccinated to gain access to festivals and the like. Don't tell me we're protecting the other guy. An obligation in the care will be in consultation. The advice comes at the end of the month. Hopefully we'll have access to that too. That is our parliamentary right. So we know exactly what was advised. It is to your credit that you do so through consultation. If it comes to an obligation in healthcare, will care workers who have not yet been vaccinated actually be vaccinated by that obligation? I hope you are right, but I fear that people will not be vaccinated for any reason. Moreover, there is already a shortage of staff. So I would think very carefully about that. The patient law and the integrity of the body apparently apply to everyone, but not to those who work in care and perhaps later not to those who are in education or to service cheques. If you wish to commit yourself, Minister, you must think very, very carefully about it. You say that you do not want to make it compulsory for the whole population, but you have already said before the recess that there will be no obligation to care. We have now come to the stage where this debate is being held. I also had a question about your statements in this matter. I quote: 'A person who does not want to be vaccinated may be denied freedoms'. What freedoms are you talking about, Minister? On what scientific basis would you like to introduce that? Resolution No. 2361 of the Council of Europe of 27 January 2021 provides that vaccination is not mandatory, that refusers should not be discriminated against and that vaccination certificates should not be used as passports or tickets. Has that changed in the meantime, Minister? If you are thinking of an obligation, then perhaps you should first sit down with your colleagues in the Council of Europe in order to put the votes on the same page. Mr Minister, if an obligation were to be made, there would be very good reasons for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. Many questions remain unanswered. We will see how the established working groups will move forward and what they will decide. With regard to the transparency you announced two months ago, we may be receiving information soon. You've put in place a lot of complex things. Hospitals and nursing homes have a very good idea of the immunization coverage of their caregivers. The vaccination coverage of all carers in Belgium, by category of carers, is also very well known. In my view, today's questions and actions must focus on convincing the categories of caregivers with lower immunization coverage. I'm not going to quote them, you know them. What is crucial is the actions and targeted measures that can be put in place to convince these particular categories of caregivers. Mr Minister, you state, in a very peremptory way, that having been ill does not offer sufficient immunity. It's a big scientific shortcut! Just look at the comparative studies that have been carried out on the immunological data of vaccinated patients and patients who have been ill. Personally, over the past few months, I have always tried to convince patients who have had the covid to get vaccinated with a dose in order to expand their defense against the new variant and boost their immunity. But making a vaccine compulsory, especially a vaccine that does not offer 100% immunity, for people who have been ill and are still carrying antibodies, especially since there is not only antibodies but also a cell immunity that cannot be measured by a blood test, is something else! I plead that this aspect should be taken into account both scientifically and politically. Many caregivers have suffered from covid. So let us not be peremptory with big scientific shortcuts! A vaccination obligation for patients who are already immunized poses a clear question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are careful about extending the vaccination obligation, and I think that caution is right. A vaccination obligation would be a wrong signal and increase the resistance to vaccination, so please do not do so. Above all, we must focus on communication and sensitisation, which is much more important and certainly more effective. Communication and awareness-raising may be particularly important for the regions. I disagree with what the colleague said about vaccination. She said that people will only be vaccinated for themselves, not to protect others. I totally disagree with that. Of course, people are being vaccinated for themselves, to protect themselves, but also to protect the other. If you are vaccinated, you have a much smaller chance of getting into the hospital. The chance of self-infectation is also many times smaller. This reduces the risk of taking a hospital bed unnecessarily. I believe that those who are being vaccinated will not only do so for themselves, but also for others, to protect others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister points out that he must leave urgently. I propose that the other Members should reply at this afternoon's sitting. I propose that we start the afternoon meeting at 1.30 p.m. so that we do not waste any time. The committee secretary will send this to members by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u44	Madam President, I understand that the Minister must leave as a matter of urgency, but a reply will take up to two minutes, so we are talking about a maximum speaking time of two times two minutes. If colleagues show any discipline, then those replies can still be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear some of my colleagues talk about failure with this vaccination obligation of health care workers. I think it is primarily a matter of avoiding a failure of another magnitude: our fight against the virus. I am still hungry about the modalities of this compulsory vaccination. You tell us that you are working on the basis of a series of opinions and that you are organising a social consultation, but we still do not know how, when and if this consultation will involve the staff of nursing homes, home care or institutions for people with disabilities. Nor do we have any details on the timing of the legal framework when this is an urgent issue. Finally, there is considerable uncertainty about the problems of labour shortages that sanctions might raise and about compulsory vaccination of other trades.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u46	I will stick to it: introducing a vaccination obligation is rather an easy solution. I'm still a little hungry. The statistics will be published, we already have some of the statistics and you say that people who are not vaccinated generally do not have confidence in the government, but that is, of course, very general. The question is, of course, what can we actually do on the ground to ensure that the vaccination rate increases? Do we really listen to people's concerns and answer their questions? That's an exercise I do every day as a general practitioner. Not always successful, but there are certain things that work. I believe that this also applies to the caregivers. The last thing I want to say is that the stick behind the door doesn't always work effectively. It was thought that after the announcement of the coronapas, everyone in Brussels would be vaccinated. Apparently, it's a little more complicated than that. If the figures are available, Minister, don't forget to pass them on to Connor Rousseau so that he doesn't send falsehoods into the world again, as if 30% of the Walloon general practitioners hadn't been vaccinated. That figure has been refuted by De Standaard as completely incorrect. I believe that we will get there, not by turning people against each other, but by understanding each other and by understanding why some people are still refusing to take the shot today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u47	So much for this actua debate. I suggest we meet back here at 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u48	Madam President, I also asked to speak. This is an actua debate, so we are entitled to it. I can be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u49	Sorry, I didn't know sooner, Mrs. Depoorter. The minister's already gone. I'm sorry, I didn't see it. I suggest that you reopen the discussion later. I believe it's because of your light blue background that we barely see your icon. Now that you mention it, I can tell. I'm sorry. I really didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u50	Madam President, until when will the Minister remain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic566x.u51	The Minister has indicated that he can stay until about 18.00 hours.
