ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u1	Good afternoon, Minister and colleagues, welcome to the exchange of views on aid during and after the natural disaster in Belgium. I propose that the Minister start her speech and then the political groups have the floor with a speaking time of ten minutes per group. Mr De Roover, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u2	Mr President, at the start of this sitting I should like to express my surprise at the time of this sitting. For decades this has been the biggest disaster that has hit our country, and it can be expected that the Minister himself and on his own initiative would inform Parliament. That didn't happen and the recess is no excuse for that. The N-VA then took the initiative and asked you and the President of the Chamber to convene the committee at the beginning of August. That was four weeks ago day by day. If this takes so long, Parliament will fail. This is an extremely serious matter, people feel abandoned and this House has remained passive. The N-VA cannot agree with this method. On the one hand, I had hoped that the Minister himself would have taken the initiative and, on the other hand, that Parliament would have been able to be convened more quickly, even in the period of receipt. My group has therefore tabled a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure so that in future we will no longer be dependent on the goodwill of the chairman of the committee or, as in this case, on the President of the Chamber. Provided that sufficient support is given, such meetings should be able to be enforced more quickly in acute circumstances. I believe that during this holiday it has been shown that there is a real need for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u3	Mr De Roover, you know that I have no exclusive right to convene the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u4	Mr President, from a parliamentary point of view, what happened at the beginning of July is quite crazy. I think that all colleagues are well aware of the shame of not having convened the Committee on Internal Affairs. I remind you that a year ago we called him in an emergency following the fights that took place on the beach in Blankenberge. And, for the worst floods since the Second World War, nothing, nobody, no debate, no parliamentary control. Can you imagine the disastrous signal that it gives the population? Giving this signal to the population is really bad. Anyway, there's a new political culture. One has to understand something. I think it's weird. From Vivaldi, I expected them to give me answers. There were already a lot of questions that had to be asked in early July 2021. We will have an exchange of views with the minister. There are a lot of issues related to these floods, which affect different jurisdictions and ministers. I therefore remain on my hunger at the beginning of the debate. I hear that on the Walloon side, it was necessary to force the hand of Minister-President Di Rupo who did not want to set up a commission of inquiry. However, I would like to encourage all my colleagues to implement the same initiative at the federal level very quickly. As with the covid, there will be a debate on the dispersion of competences. We'll see him on the back. However, there is a strong federal component and there is an inter-federal component. I agree with the proposal of the colleagues from Ecolo-Groen who propose to consider the inter-federal side of the situation. We have tabled a text that will be taken into account and will be open to all forms of amendments in this regard. I would like to insist that this committee of inquiry be set up very quickly, which must shed light on many aspects. Everyone will have understood that the ten-minute exchange of views today is at most the beginning of a debate. Of course, we won't have the minister's final answers today. I hope that in the next ten days we will unblock this situation in order to set up this inter-federal commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u5	Mr President, I do not think it is necessary to recall the circumstances in which these events took place and continue to take place. I live in the disaster-stricken areas and am solicited daily. I can tell you, at the moment, that the situation of some families is still absolutely unimaginable for those who have not realized. They live in unimaginable conditions in the 21st century. The Minister will report on a number of aspects – on core competencies. However, there are others, and I am still hungry about these different skills and the fact that we cannot have all the people who are talking to us. It's going to be sausageed again. This is already the case with respect to federal and regional jurisdictions, but this will be more the case between jurisdictions. This lack of coordination – notably between Defence, emergency medical aid, services that depend on the interior – is precisely what is most lacking in this case. Why have we not been given an earlier commission, but also in which all the ministerial interlocutors are present, possibly with their services to obtain a report? That is the least we can do or say to all those who do not yet have answers. I remind you of the many deaths in this case, and all these families – without making a political bid – that are truly delivered to themselves. Many of them did not know how to send their children to school this morning, because of their deplorable cleanliness or illness because of living in or near unhealthy homes. The least we can do is to bring a global view of what has happened and then decide, if necessary, to go a step further at a committee of inquiry. But as a first step, let us try to bring together all the interlocutors – Ministers of Health and Defence – who would accompany you to this committee. It is regrettable that this is sausageed, that the Minister of Defence may be present next week, that of Health in another commission,... This does not make it possible to link up with the work carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, or to have a global vision or to account for what really happened, when that is our duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u6	Mrs Matz, we will certainly discuss this further in the course of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u7	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to express my disappointment. I am a member of the Defence Committee and the External Relations Committee that we met last week. A major debate took place on Afghanistan and repatriation. We were able to bring together the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I can only reinforce Mrs Matz's remarks. Indeed, I cannot conceive, having come from a region where many communes have been so badly affected (some of them don't even have enough to dress at the time we're talking), that because of the different responsibilities that exist – and some inconsistencies may be discussed today – that same exercise cannot be done for what I, too, call a natural disaster, meriting the question of the possibilities of aid and the responsibilities of the federal government. I would have really welcomed the fact that we are doing what we are doing elsewhere on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u8	I shall now give the floor to the Minister for her speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u9	Mr President, representatives of the people, I did intend to raise a number of points briefly, because there are a lot of things to come back to in your questions. Of course, we can then go into more detail after the questions have been asked, both the questions that have already been received and the questions that are still being formulated orally. It is clear that we have experienced an unprecedented catastrophe in mid-July. It is therefore appropriate to stand still for a moment and let our thoughts go out to the dead victims and their families, the missing person who is wanted, but also to all other people, thousands of families, businesses and schools who have suffered enormous damage due to the natural disaster and who have lost everything in some places. Our work today and in the future must also be done with those victims in mind in order to make the right choices and make the right decisions. As can be seen from the images we have all seen and from the findings we have been able to make ourselves on the ground, the damage is enormous and the recovery will take a long time. We will not be able to rebuild everything completely in the coming months, but we will have to make a large number of choices, including at the level of land-use planning, flood-sensitive areas, which will take a long time to recover. As a number of speakers have said, there are people who are still living in an extremely difficult situation today. Today is September 1st, the start of the new school year. We have been able to talk to teachers and management on the ground and it will be a loaded start for some. Teachers have done their utmost to prepare the schools to receive students again, but the emotions and the difficult stories that will come will of course also have to be heard. Secondly, at the start of this committee, I would also like to express my warmest thanks once again to all the aid and security services who have helped in some way in the first days of the disaster and still do so today. They have done much more than they can be expected to do in certain cases. Sometimes they even risked their own lives to help other people: Civil Protection, Defense, Police, Fire Department, but also volunteers who helped. It is appropriate to say a word of thanks to them today. I certainly also thank the people of all the governments, local authorities and municipalities, who were sometimes involved as victims themselves but who have put aside their own concerns to help in the places where it was even more necessary. Soon we will have to discuss a number of critical questions, but one of the bright spots we have seen is that there has been a huge wave of solidarity. We have shown that at a time when it really matters in this country we can bridge the differences and the desire to help others dominate. I believe that this can be said. People have gone from all corners of the country. Finally, I would like to say that, as has just been mentioned, it is up to the President of the Chamber and the chairman of the committee to determine the agenda of the committee. I've always indicated that I'm at my disposal. I will continue to do so for any other activity that Parliament considers useful or necessary. I think we should talk about this, but it is not the Minister for the Interior who set the date for the committee meeting on 1 September. I also believe, as I have said, that we need to take a critical look at the current structures, cooperation and organisation. I would like to start with you today on a number of points of improvement, without claiming that we will be able to conclude that debate today, because that is very large and it is in favour of many different parts of our structure. I think it is important that we ask the necessary questions and that we follow up on them in the coming period. We have experienced an exceptional situation. Rain levels were exceptionally high. In a few places in the province of Liège, the rain has reached levels that are only observed once every two hundred years. Elsewhere in the province of Liège, the amount of precipitation is observed once every twenty or thirty years. This data should be used to define the level of protection of our infrastructure and housing, as well as the equipment of our emergency services. Climate experts tell us that these situations will no longer be so exceptional in the years to come, so we need to think about them in order to prepare for the future. The exceptional nature of this disaster has also had practical consequences for relief efforts. For example, police and defence helicopters were used very little during the first two days because the rain intensity was too high and visibility was limited, resulting in dangerous circumstances in the valleys. Rescue operations were therefore limited, which also prevented a quick and detailed overview of the area to be covered. In addition, the FRUB (Flood Rescue Using Boats) Civil Protection teams have had difficulties due to the strength of the currents. According to the information available to me today, one wonders whether there are boats strong enough to be able to operate this kind of rescue in the event of such strong currents. We need to look at this question of whether we could have found fairly resistant boats. Moreover, we have seen such things in other countries, such as Germany, Austria and Luxembourg, which have experienced such situations and have also had difficulties in organising emergency aid. For me, the question we have to ask ourselves is first of all, as I have already said: what level of protection do we want in this country against what climatic conditions? We have already had discussions about storms in the North Sea, but what about floods and climate events that can happen in other places in our country? One question related to this is: what waste risks are we prepared to carry in relation to these disasters? I'll try to tell you what happened in the first few days and weeks that followed. But as has already been mentioned, there are other relevant skills in this country to manage such a crisis and recovery, which fall within the competence of the Regions, such as urban planning, river management and hydrological management. There are certainly points to be analysed and perhaps improved in the future. We are acting on the basis of the crisis structure that exists today, as established in the past in all the regulations and agreements made. There are three phases, municipal, provincial and federal, in which each competent authority announces a crisis or emergency case on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of information available. It is up to the Minister of the Interior to announce or scale the federal phase on the basis of available information. Of course, at such a time, a whole range of instruments, such as a policy cell, a coordination cell and a number of other follow-up and communication measures, will come into force. There is no fixed list of criteria that such a phase should specifically meet. There are a number of indications, not only in the regulatory field, but also on the basis of practice, such as the resources to be used, the number of victims and the need for coordination at a certain level. On this basis, we have also been working in this crisis. These three distinct phases are known on paper and are also considered independent in themselves. In view of the future, however, the question arises as to whether there is any overlap or interaction between the different phases. Corona, but also now, showed that, for example, at a provincial stage, there is also coordination, support or facilitation from, for example, the federal level. In this case too, coordination meetings were already sent by the National Crisis Centre at a time when the provincial phases were still running. In practice, things are complementary and supportive in one direction and the other. Thus, the national hub, also known from the corona crisis, played a role before the federal phase, but also after the scaling down of the federal phase. During the federal phase, the governors must also implement the decisions operationally, obviously in consultation with the Minister and the Crisis Centre. Of course, the Crisis Center isn't on the premises. It's driving the governors. They then implement the decisions. For me, there's a run-off or tentacle from one stage to the next. In the pre-federal phase there were coordination meetings, there was the national hub. The National Crisis Centre has also proactively contacted the governors who had declared a provincial phase to see if there was any need for help or scaling up. It is therefore not the case that the Crisis Centre remains sidelined at the time when the provincial phase is still running. There is also a similar system in the post-federal phase. There is not only the national hub, but there are also bilateral contacts after the scaling down of the federal phase, in which the Crisis Centre further supports, as well as the federal support cell that we're about to go into a little deeper. Finally, as has already been mentioned, there is an exchange with the regions. They are represented in the Crisis Centre and are involved in day-to-day coordination meetings. Especially when preparing for the post-care phase of the crisis, they have been given an explicit role, in particular in terms of competences or powers that concern the regions, such as mobility, housing, waste and so on. Then let's take a concrete look at the display of the chronology of the events. It is important to note that on Saturday, 10 July, the Wallonia Public Service (SPW) received warnings from the European Flood Awareness System (EFAS) regarding floods. This information was therefore sent to the Regions and not to the Federal, and therefore not to the Crisis Centre, nor to the Minister of the Interior. As far as we are concerned, the information was provided to us in response to the questions we asked on 22 July. In other words, flood and hydrological information has not been provided to the federal government. EFAS therefore did not notify the Crisis Centre. This question can be discussed later for the future, but that is the way things have happened. However, we were informed by the MRI, which announced a yellow code on July 12 for a few regions. You may know that when a yellow code is announced for certain regions, this code applies across the country. Anyway, from then on, number 1722 was activated. You should also know that the announcement of a yellow code is not very alarming for many as this code is activated several times a year. On Tuesday 13 July, the rain began to fall. Some communes then declared a state of emergency, particularly with a view to evacuating the youth camps. At that time, the evacuation operation was heavily focused on the latter. On Wednesday 14 July, at 9:46 a.m., the MRI announced the red alert for the province of Liège. As usual, MRI messages are communicated by the Crisis Centre to the various authorities via known channels (radio, television, social networks of MRI, weather communication). This information has also been communicated to governors, mayors, regions, all relief services and emergency power plants. The Crisis Centre therefore passed the message to the various services concerned. The partners were informed by the Crisis Centre of the red alert phase on Wednesday, 14 July. The BE-Alert system is developed at the federal level, but municipalities and provinces can also use it. For example, the province of Liège sent a message via BE-Alert to 893,000 GSM numbers. Then she sent another 100 different messages to inform about the weather, but also the floods. Mrs Ingels et Chanson and Mr. De Smet asked questions about this BE-Alert system, whose operation I have just described. It may need to be further improved, so that it is not an exclusive means of communication while still serving to inform the public of the situation. There are not so many BE-Alert subscribers, but as we also use communications antennas, even people who are not subscribers can receive SMS. On the basis of information on the weather and the situation on the ground, we have launched the provincial phase, on which Mrs Matz asked for more information. The provinces of Liège, Namur and Luxembourg announced the provincial phase on 14 July, the morning for Liège and the afternoon for the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg. The following day, Walloon Brabant and Hainaut also launched the provincial phase. As soon as a governor orders the provincial phase, the Crisis Centre proactively contacts the provincial phase. On 14 and 15 July, the Governors therefore confirmed that the situation was under control at the level of the aid coordination organisation. The governors' message was that they were coordinating relief services to respond to calls for help. On 14 July at 9 p.m., the Crisis Centre organized a coordination meeting with the governors concerned to ask how the situation was evolving and to take stock of their needs. On this occasion, the Governors of Liège and Luxembourg expressed a number of specific needs. These were immediately coordinated. These were not coordination needs, but means to be implemented, such as additional vessels and helicopters. To follow up, the national logistics hub was launched on the evening of 14 July to assist in the distribution of resources and people available. Set up during the crisis of the covid-19, this hub was redeployed during this disaster. The particular mission of this national hub is to link the terrain, needs and means. In a more advanced phase of the disaster, for example, it helped municipalities to organize expertise and hire experts to carry out house and accommodation analyses. We activated the European Civil Protection Mechanism on 14 July at 11.30 p.m. in order to obtain as much assistance as possible and to support the Governors in the needs they had communicated. With regard to the decisions and police orders relating to the evacuations mentioned by Mrs Matz, there is indeed a decree of the province of Namur of 14 July for the evacuation of youth camps, as well as the decree of the Governor of Liège, also of 14 July, for the evaluation of certain areas and communes. I know there's news about the passage of messages about evacuations. This may also be a management lesson. We did not receive any formal messages from the mayors that this evacuation order had not been communicated to them. There is a need for further analysis of what has happened in practice. It has been found, through field visits, that we are not used to conducting evacuations like what we see in the United States where people, after receiving such messages, are ready to evacuate their homes. It remains difficult for us: even after warnings from local services, people did not want to leave their homes. They have reasons: a poor assessment of the situation, the presence of animals... Not wanting to leave his residence is understandable, but we must think about systems that would allow them to do so. With regard to the follow-up of these orders, during the provincial phases, the governors managed and coordinated evacuation operations. As regards the bilateral talks between the governors and the coordination meeting on the evening of 14 July, the intervention of the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) was not mentioned as necessary in these operations. On the morning of Thursday, July 15, at 8:30 a.m., a new NCCN coordination meeting was held with the governors and the three provinces that had announced the provincial phase. The question of more coordination on the part of the federal government was asked again. The Governors replied that they were in a position to manage the situation on their territory and that there was no need to open a new phase of the crisis management system. Two hours later, at 11:00 a.m., we had another coordination meeting, at which other governors – Antwerp, Limburg, Brabant Wallon and Flemish Brabant – were invited. We asked them if we should start the federal phase, but the governors did not consider it necessary because they confirmed that they were managing the crisis. They also indicated their desire for the shortest possible lines of communication and their responsibility for coordinating relief missions. After that, however, we have triggered the federal crisis management phase because an ad hoc assessment must always be carried out. Based on an evaluation cell organised, we found that the meteorological situation would not improve but would continue until 16 July 2021. At that time there was a first approach to the number of victims to be regretted and it appeared that there was a further extension of the disaster area to other provinces. There was then, after further discussion, but actually at a time when the proposal had already been put on the table with the governors, by me in my capacity as Minister for the Interior, decided to announce the federal phase and to proceed to federal coordination of the disaster. So we certainly had a lot of discussions ahead of the federal phase. We then decided, on the basis of the meteorological information and information on the site, which came between Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, to announce the federal phase. Given the magnitude of the floods and the weather, the fact that victims were already to be deplored and significant material damage had already been found, we decided that the management of the crisis should be coordinated in a federal phase. At that time, from Thursday afternoon at 2.30 p.m., the federal phase was in operation and there have been many consultations and coordination meetings. Also during the night of 15-16 July there were many discussions to see how we could offer the assistance we were able to offer. There were also a number of other elements that played, e.g. strategic sectors continued to provide electricity. At one point the question was asked whether the floods would be a problem for the Tihange nuclear power plant. It was feared that if the DirCo flooded in Liège, the data centre would be out of operation. So at least there have been considerations and discussions in a number of strategic areas, which we have followed up at federal level. With regard to coordination during the federal phase, I have just explained what we have done. It may also be interesting to review all the resources and resources that have been deployed by the relief and assistance services. First of all, there's Civil Protection. From 14 July, I can confirm that both units – Crisnea and Brasschaat – have been permanently deployed. All the Civil Protection officers who were in the barracks immediately left. Between 80 and 130 Civil Protection officers were hired to deal with this crisis on a daily basis. This figure may be absolute, but given the information I currently have, it is the maximum number of personnel that have been mobilized according to their method, services and shifts over a total of 268 Civil Protection officers. Relief personnel were themselves affected or even affected by the floods. This also applies to firefighters, police officers, municipal and provincial workers. They have set aside their own situation to make themselves available to their intervention service. This is also the case for Civil Protection officers. Due to weather conditions, the Civil Protection movement in the disaster zone was not easy, not only to reach the intervention sites, but also to progress on board the boats, as I have just explained. Civil Protection volunteers have also been deployed. The number is a little lower than before, but of course civil protection volunteers have also been called upon to assist in relief or rescue operations. The first tasks assigned to Civil Protection were rescue missions (by the Flood Rescue Using Boats (FRUB) teams), also containment, pumping, mapping (by the deployment of drones). While it was not easy at the beginning to use drones, due to the heavy rains, Civil Protection has really used all the means currently available to try to help, while at the same time encountering the strength of the water. Since 14 July, I have had several meetings with the Civil Protection and the commanders in charge of the barracks. According to them, there would have been misunderstandings, such as "civil protection was insufficiently represented on the ground". However, they confirmed that all the staff on site left immediately. No one remained in the barracks and all available personnel were mobilized, not only on the first day but the next. After the water drop, since 16 July, the operations of the Civil Protection mainly focus on the pumping of water, the clearing of debris, especially in the province of Liège. Today, it is still engaged in assisting the transport of waste to the areas that are destined by the Region for the collection of waste. There are, of course, lessons to be learned about the organization and scope of Civil Protection. We discussed this at the policy note last year. It is important to determine the level of protection desired before conducting the analysis to determine whether or not Civil Protection is still in a position to respond to such disasters. We can talk about the number of staff, the professional cadres that are not fully filled, the decrease in the number of volunteers and the teams, the equipment used. Moreover, the boats that came from abroad could not be used systematically because of the flow of water. This problem is not only inherent in Belgium. He's of a general nature. We will certainly talk about it again. We had already launched a public procurement to conduct an analysis of civil protection reform. She's in class. We're going to open the offers in relation to this study tomorrow. After what has happened, it is important to determine whether the question asked of the partners who are going to help us do this analysis is still relevant and whether we are going to get answers to prepare Emergency Preparedness for the future. As far as firefighters are concerned, 750 to 1,400 firefighters were deployed daily. From July 15, all the resources were deployed and there was also reinforcement of Flemish and Brussels relief zones, not only in manpower, but also in resources. The fire department has shown a great deal of solidarity. On 20 July, for example, 20 zones from Flanders and 173 men were present in the disaster area. This is another example of spontaneous solidarity. Here too, work was carried out in very difficult conditions, with a rapidly rising water level. Additional boats wouldn't necessarily have helped because they couldn't possibly be deployed. Some called it an "unseen," an "impossible" disaster, as was the case in Germany. That doesn't change the fact that we need to see what can be done better. One advantage and one element that we may even be able to take with us in the future is that, unlike the police, there is not an overarching structure that controls the zones, especially in the operational phase of the crisis. Co-ordinated housing of firefighters' tasks in a national hub has helped coordinate aid. This national hub was strengthened by a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking zone commander of the Fire Weather Network and ReZonWal, in order to coordinate direct contacts between the relief zones and to better coordinate national demand. We need to see how we can make this structural in the future. I know the reports about firefighters who voluntarily travelled to the disaster area out of solidarity and were not immediately directed, and I certainly do not want to contradict those messages. We too have made that observation. This is linked to a number of other aspects of coordination in certain places. Apart from the local coordination of firefighters, we must also consider how the firefighters can generally be better coordinated. I am thinking, for example, of a coordinated procurement of equipment, so that we finally know what resources the fire department has at its disposal. Now it is not always clear which zone has what material. I have to say that I had a lot of positive reactions on the ground about the solidarity of the fire department. They're risking their own lives. I also spoke to the firefighters in Ghent. We all know the unfortunate story of the rescue operation they did. That was very touching. I think we should really honor their courage and heroism. After all, they acted on the basis of their intuitive relief reflex, and often not on the basis of their own safety considerations. That deserves great respect and gratitude. There are also fire zones that were faced with floods in their own barracks. That was the case, for example, with the second wave in Dinant. That's where the fire station flooded. That made it difficult to pull out at the time. Then there are also the stories of the firefighters who at that time didn't get there either because they were in flooded area. It is also clear that the fire department has continued to be active since 26 July to help clean up, pump work and so on. With regard to the deployment of police resources, it is clear that, for the reasons mentioned for firefighters and civil protection, there were many victims among local police officers in the disaster zone. We have therefore sent a federal reinforcement to try to prevent looting and to ensure the maintenance of public order. I can provide you with the exact numbers of police personnel deployed in the provinces to manage law and order. In fact, the federal support unit is still present today to manage the situation, although the number of staff is smaller. Other police services have also been deployed. I will mention the Disaster Victim Identification Team (DIV). This team identified 33 victims and showed great care and respect. A reception centre was set up at the Crisnea barracks for the families and relatives of the victims. The other victims were identified by the local police. I will then quote the canine support service, to find victims in the affected areas, and the DAFA, for air support. As I mentioned earlier, it was difficult to use helicopters on 14 and 15 July due to weather conditions. We were still able to undertake winch rescues to recover people stranded on the roofs and record images in order to assess the overall situation. It is clear that this has added value to operations. And then we can talk about the missing persons cell of the police. I'll try to be a little bit shorter to give you the opportunity to ask questions. One question, which may have been raised further in the press, is: why was the list of missing persons so volatile? That's because the police have always drawn up a complete list so that they can give answers quickly enough. That is why we have seen the figures fluctuate a little. There may be questions about the number of people who died. According to us, there are 38 of them, plus one person still missing. Yesterday, the press mentioned 41. Sometimes it is also the mayors or other persons concerned who report figures. But in the meantime we asked for confirmation, five times, to be sure and some. So that's the figure we have today. It may also be important, in relation to the police, for the Régie des Bâtiments to try to help with the buildings under its jurisdiction. Police officers have also helped with this, because they may be able to use these buildings as accommodation or even for the police barracks that have been assigned. Defence resources: Defence was deployed from 14 July for civilian evacuations, helicopter support, boats, sandbags, transportation. Defence is still in the field and is also working with the Federal Support Cell to help. I can tell you that a lot of soldiers have been in the field. The figure we have today from Defence is that, on average, 181 military personnel have been deployed on the ground every day. A maximum of 374 military personnel were deployed at the same time. On another slide we indicated the international resources used to manage, especially in the first rescue operations of Italy, Austria, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. I will not go into detail about the figures, but that way you will have the overview. There is always an analysis of whether or not it is desirable. Aid has also been offered which was considered to have no added value at that time, for example because it could be too late here. The use of these resources has had added value. It is also good that something like this can be done in Europe, even with countries that were only to a lesser extent involved, such as Luxembourg. I have also been able to speak to the countries concerned. First of all, everyone was very happy to be able to help. The next point, which may well be the subject of some discussion and which I would like to raise, is the following. There were also questions, including those from Mrs Depraetere, about the Red Cross, which we used the first days after the disaster and which itself set up the platform of both volunteers and financial donations. You know that the Red Cross is a national organisation, but it is divided into a Flemish and a Walloon Red Cross and is organized and structured in this way. For example, the Flemish Red Cross has established a platform for volunteers to help. The Walloon Red Cross has worked more with existing volunteers who had already been registered there. So that's a difference in operation. The Red Cross has helped, among other things, to set up reception centres, in the distribution of food and water to this day. By the way, the Interior has launched a food mission. The Red Cross helps with the division. The Red Cross has also worked with the event industry to get food trucks and to give people hot meals. It also helps with psychosocial assistance and helping families with missing persons. That is certainly an added value. However, the structure we know today is a structure of an independent organisation. The question arises as to whether all the elements are well connected and whether the organisation can be properly involved in crisis management and in the volunteering we were offered and needed in order to provide as much help as possible as quickly as possible. In practice, a lot of people have wanted to give a lot, especially all kinds of material gifts, in the first instance food, which was interesting. For local authorities, however, it is an additional task to store, triangle and open up separate spaces for this purpose, and also not to remain left with too many surplus clothes and other items, which are an additional concern for the local authorities. This is certainly also a point of interest. Civil Protection is now, for example, helping to dispose of certain stocks to relieve local authorities in this area. The food banks have also helped to organise food distribution, supply and supply of certain food products in the distribution centres. Then I come to the post-federal phase or the scaling down of the federal phase. After all, I can imagine that you are also curious about our presentation of the story and of the situation as it has occurred. In crisis management structures, it is important that we also have a recovery phase, which is provided for in the regulations and in the procedure followed during crises. For this reason, we have already begun to prepare this phase as early as July 16, not to end the federal phase, but because a series of audits must be carried out before they can be completed. We have therefore had many discussions with the governors, but also with the Walloon Region, which has announced the establishment of this reconstruction secretariat. It became clear after some time that governors preferred to re-establish the provincial phases so that assistance could be coordinated at the level closest to the ground and to coordinate needs. We have therefore had many consultation meetings before the end of the federal phase to gather information and ensure that everything can be properly organized. The idea had been in place since 20 July to put an end to the federal phase, but we waited until 26 July to ensure that we would have enough consultation meetings with the governors and the Walloon Region, since many of the powers for recovery and reconstruction lie with the regions, such as waste, infrastructure, housing, urban planning, etc. The special police station was created by the Walloon Region precisely to resume all these activities. Without saying that there was no longer any need, towards the end of the federal phase, only a limited number of communes were very affected, mainly in one province. These were the communes of Chaudfontaine, Esneux, Liège, Limbourg, Pepinster, Theux, Trooz, Verviers and Rochefort. For the other provinces, federal coordination was no longer the appropriate level for crisis management. For their part, the governors of Namur and Luxembourg ended the provincial phase on 30 July, which means that they did not believe that coordination at the provincial level was still necessary. However, as I have already said, the support of the Crisis Centre has not ceased after 26 July. The governors could therefore still rely on its support and national logistics coordination to transmit orders and requests for resources and support. As a result, relief services did not leave on 26 July, but as of that date, coordination was provided by the provinces. Follow-up was provided. There were still contacts between the Crisis Centre and the latter, as was the case during the federal phase. At some point, we found that every effort must be made to ensure that the aid is adequate. On the evening of 4 August, after consultation with the Minister-President of the Walloon Region but also with the governors, it was decided to set up this federal support unit. A circular was sent out on 19 August so that the services of the five disciplines normally present in the crisis cells at the provincial and federal level could be strengthened to deal with emergencies and needs, including psychosocial support, property monitoring and security. The police were there. Civil Protection was also present, to ensure the transport of waste, to inform the population and to provide logistical support in connection with this cell. It has been decided to set up this cell within the special police station for reconstruction because it is the Region which is competent for reconstruction and therefore to establish the link between the relief services, the disciplines and the police station. I think it's working well. This is, in any case, reflected in regular contacts not only with the support cell but also with the special police station for reconstruction. For example, it was the Department of the Interior that launched the food market for the provision of hot meals, after contact with the CAF. You can see on the slide the links between the CAF and the police station. On the following slide, you can discover the composition of the federal support unit and the various activities that are developed within this unit: cleaning, food aid, psychosocial support, securing and managing excess donations (financial but also material). Questions were asked by Mrs Ingels, Chanson, MM. Demon, Rigot, Hedebouw and De Smet concerning the operation, mandates and missions of the CAF. As I have just explained, you see here his various tasks or missions. I can confirm that with regard to food, a call for tenders has been launched. With the collaboration of the Red Cross, about 8,000 meals are prepared and offered daily to the victims. We see that this is gradually decreasing, but it is still necessary at the moment. The police station is also planning to extend this offer of hot meals after 15 September. With regard to clean-up and work, in addition to their usual actions, relief areas play an important role on the ground, including those of Vesdre, Theux and Olne. With Emergency Preparedness, they help people who still have water that needs to be pumped or debris that needs to be removed. With regard to security, the integrated police sent officers to protect from looting and theft. The figures we received show a marked decrease in the number of cases. The police have done important work to ensure people's safety. As I mentioned, health and psychosocial support are also being monitored within the federal support unit. Everything about information and solidarity, and therefore communication in the municipalities concerned, is done in interaction with the communications department of the Wallonia Public Service (SPW). I will conclude with a first look back, with some reservations for a vision of the future. It is far too early to say that we can already make a comprehensive analysis of what has happened and what needs to be done. However, this should be the starting point. With regard to equipment and personnel, all the resources and people were deployed to help as best as possible in very difficult circumstances. There is a demand for bestaffining: are there enough people at the Civic Describe and at the fire department? Do we have enough well-trained personnel to sail by boat or pilot drones? We have to keep asking these questions. Civilian Protection's workforce has fallen, as has the number of volunteers, as has been said. Should we review this now in view of possible future crises? Of course, we need to fill in the staffing framework, but we also need to see if we can get more effective in the field of civil protection or in the services or security services. A second element is the evacuations: should we move towards a clearer and more compelling system to enable evacuations? People have sometimes waited too long, so evacuation was no longer possible, or they didn't want to leave their home. There's still work to be done. In the Netherlands this is better followed, but there they also have a longer history. That is something we must ask ourselves. The provincial crisis cells are also a question for me. They are very important in the management of super-local crises. They're so provided for in our system. The question is whether there is always sufficient staff and whether we need to adjust to meet the needs of the field. I have already said that there is the policy and strategic aspect, but also the operational one. Must the firefighters be represented in it so that one can speak with one voice. All these points are important and the reason why I said some time ago that we need to set up a learning committee around the floods to bring all these points together. I agree that there is interaction with the regions, as Mrs Matz said, and that we are looking at how we can draw lessons from this. We have decided not to keep the learning board purely internal, but to involve an external partner. We'll be looking for it for the next few weeks. Of course, we also want to involve people from the field of work such as fire services, municipal and provincial levels and scientific experts in order to learn from the crisis. We need to do that thoroughly to be well prepared. Which brings us to the next point, the Crisis Center. You know that a great deal has been said about this. The Crisis Centre already planned to launch a codification project to review all the regulations on emergency planning and crisis management. Has this been modified? Are there any overlaps? Has the spillover, which I mentioned earlier, been properly incorporated into our regulations? I do not need to stress that they have been very busy with the corona crisis over the past year, but this is a project that is certainly on the agenda, as is the development of multidisciplinaryness in the Crisis Centre and interregional cooperation. In doing so, the regions must be interlocutors for the sake of their powers, but also for the sake of their local involvement. Inter-federal cooperation, the risk cycle from prevention to aftercare that concerns different governments, must be able to look at and prepare. Then there are two points. The structural anchoring of a number of elements may emerge from the learning committee. What about the national logistics hub? Should we structurally anchor this one? We've done that twice during crises. How are we supposed to handle this? Firefighters have an important role to play in operational coordination. Finally, we all need to consider what investments we believe should be made in the emergency and security services. We are, of course, in a budgetaryly challenging situation because of corona, but security is important. I believe that we must make choices at the level of protection and organisation and draw the necessary consequences in terms of investment. I think we will still have an opportunity to talk about that element in detail. I had one last slide on the Red Cross, but I have just spoken about that. Some of your questions may also come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive presentation. As agreed, I am now giving the floor to the political groups for 10 minutes, but that period can of course be divided among the various Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u11	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your statement. I would also like to mention the deadly victims and the missing, but also the many families affected. I had the opportunity to go on the spot twice, once at the beginning of August and once last week, thanks to the fantastic organisation First Aid Flanders from Lochristi, who drove there three times a week from day 2 with food, cleaning products, electric fires, and you name it. We also handed out school bags last week. I can assure you that I was deeply impressed, both the first time and the second time. The needs of the people on the ground are still very great. The Commissariat for Reconstruction was established, as was the Federal Support Cell. So my first question to you is: what concrete actions are there now, tomorrow, in the coming days, for those people? Those people still don't have heating. They can't wash themselves. Okay, there are shower containers, but they're not open to everyone. Older people don't run out of stairs in those containers. These are very practical things, but they are. I have spoken to young mothers of young children whose stress, fear, tension, is simply seen on the face: I cannot wash my child; it is cold in the bathroom; what should I do with the school; there is no school anymore...There is a lot of stress, and that is partly because they are not informed enough. I believe that everyone on the ground understood that not everything could be fixed from day one, that it would take a long time and that many steps had to be taken, but there is no perspective. When's the heat coming? They hear that the gas connection will not be until December or January. That's impossible, isn't it? We don't live in a third world country, do we? I can understand that there are major structural problems for the gas connection, but you're not going to tell me that it can't be fixed by December? Where are these people going? It is often said that accommodation is a regional competence. Yes, in the long term that is indeed a regional competence. The region needs to look at urbanism. Do you want houses to disappear? Do you want houses to be demolished? Is there going to be a ban on rebuilding? That is indeed a regional issue. But to provide an emergency home, to ensure that these people have warm food in decent conditions and that they can wash themselves, that they can meet their basic needs, that is a task for everyone, and therefore also for federal support. I still don't understand why there's no perspective. In Germany one places container villages. Why can't we do that? There are people who can stay at night with family or friends, but not everyone can. There are people who are afraid to leave their homes because there are lootings. But there are also people who just can't go anywhere else. What is happening very concretely today in the field of improving the living conditions and psychosocial support of those people and answering their many questions? I'll follow the risk cycle now. Everything, of course, starts with the question: what is our tolerance limit? To what extent can we prepare ourselves? I agree that we cannot prepare for everything 100%. It is therefore important that we have an overall crisis response. According to the Crisis Centre and every expert in crisis management, this overall response is needed. We therefore have a general response that is celebrated abroad. After all, we have a structure, regulation with the principle of subsidiarity (municipalities, provinces, federal), a federal crisis cell. That's all very logical. Everyone recognizes that. When starting a risk cycle, one must identify risks. That exercise's done. We've talked about it a lot. The risk analysis was carried out in 2018. That has happened very thoroughly with a lot of experts. Ten priority risks have been identified, which would work until 2023. We are today 2021 and two of those ten risks are 'extreme weather' and 'floods'. I submitted a written question on this in December 2020. With regard to extreme weather, you replied that RMI scenarios would be made on the basis of data and that it would be considered whether emergency planning and crisis management should be adapted accordingly. In the meantime, what happened before that? On the issue of floods, you said that there was an emergency plan. That's right, it was prepared in 1997 because of the water shortage that was there in the 1990s mainly in Wallonia but also in Flanders. That emergency plan was last updated in 2011 and last year it was decided not to update that emergency plan but to work with chips. That's all good for me. Three types of chips would be compiled according to the three types of risks: pluvial and fluvial risks of flooding, and flooding from the sea. Where are we on those chips? Are those chips there? Have they been spoken through and practiced? Those are all pertinent questions, aren't they? If risk is identified as a priority, then it must also be dealt with. What is the status of the work that would be undertaken? I understand the Crisis Center has been very busy with COVID-19. Everyone recognizes that. When discussing your policy paper, I asked you the question and expressed my concern that the corona crisis took too much time for the staff. You assured me that I didn't have to worry about that and that people had enough staff to deal with other risks. I also want to know what's going on with the planning. How many provinces have a BNIP, a Special Flood Emergency and Intervention Plan? How many municipalities have such a BNIP? How many exercises have been organized at provincial level in recent years to... we all know that writing a plan and putting it in the closet doesn't help, we have to practice it. The issue of evacuation has always been a pain, as we know from nuclear emergency planning, for example. We've known that for years, so why hasn't that been practiced anymore? Once the risks are identified and there is planning, consideration must also be given to the protection measures. I agree that we cannot prepare for everything, but if the risk has been assessed and people know that we cannot do everything to stop it, then we must focus on the protection measures. Calling for evacuation is certainly a priority for many risks, not just for them. The Crisis Centre has a mission called "active vigilance." It is very important, which is why there is also permanence 24 hours a day. They get information from many Belgian institutions, but internationally they are also Focal Point for a lot of things. The information comes to them, so I am surprised to hear that the EFAS, the European system, is not due there. Agreed, that's possible, but the RMI will come to that. I understand it was indeed code yellow. Those who saw C'est pas tous les jours dimanche last Sunday and heard the weatherman's explanation, know that it was indeed code yellow, but also that it was already in the text that extreme rainfall was predicted for certain zones. Moreover, that prediction became more and more specific. So my question is also whether the Crisis Centre only plays P.O. Box and only gets information and sends it to the partners? I know it's being sent, because we used to get those e-mails. Or is the information considered in detail and discussed and analysed? The mission is not only to collect and forward, but also to analyse? If the Crisis Centre sends information to other services, can it be expected that those other services, which have received the EFAS system, will also forward the information back to the Crisis Centre? I now hear from you that it took until 22 July before you were informed. I find that unacceptable. The information exchange isn't coming from one side, is it? If we inform regions or services, can they do so to the federal level? That also seems to me to be a great improvement. There is also the provision of information to the population. The people on the premises told me they hadn't received a text. I was convinced at the beginning that BE-Alert wasn't even used, because everyone told me they hadn't been notified. However, it turns out that this is the case, so I do not know what happened to that information. Didn't those people get it or didn't they understand what it is? However, BE-Alert is not new. Many municipalities also use it to disseminate information about other matters. Are they municipalities that have never practiced with BE-Alert? The province has worked with BE-Alert before, hasn't it? Then how come people don't recognize these messages? Is that because they're not familiar with the system? It seems to me that there is absolutely no point in learning from this. As far as the organisation of crisis management was concerned, the provincial phase, the federal phase and then the provincial phase came into force. You listed the reasons for moving to the federal phase. I have every sympathy for that, it did seem to me to be the best decision. Still, I want to understand why we switched from federal to provincial again. You explained that in part. However, there is something that really bothers me, and the fact that the federal support cell was established two weeks later confirms me in my annoyance. You say that the province is responsible for operational coordination, but in fact it is already responsible for operational coordination during the federal phase. So that is not a good argument to leave it to the province again. One could have provided federal support. I understand that there have been many discussions, but within the National Crisis Centre there is a Crisis Support Team (CST)? This can be used both in the provincial policy cells and in the field, at the CP-Ops. Surely we have a D5 team, acclaimed after the terrorist attacks and even acclaimed internationally? Was that help offered? Was it passed on to the governors? Were those teams deployed, were they on standby? Why don't we use what we have? I think that setting up a federal support cell is the right thing to do diplomatically. Something had to happen. If you set up a cell like this after two weeks, I think you'll also acknowledge that something was fundamentally wrong. Otherwise, you wouldn't have felt that need. The governor wears three hats: a provincial, a federal and a regional. When it comes to crisis management and emergency planning, he wears his federal cap. So you can call him and ask if you can help and support him. Where did it go wrong there? Finally, I would like to talk about regional crisis cells. The Walloon crisis cell was founded by the fantastic Paul Dewil in the 2000s. The cell originated from the SETI, the Walloon component that deals with water pollution, and was specifically established to deal with flooding. Cartography and so on has been developed entirely from the risk of flooding. Now I read in the newspaper that the Walloon Region regards itself as 'louter mailbox'! Under the current rules, it is true that: it is not part of the chain, it can be used if one of the powers is at stake. How do you see that? You said earlier that you wanted to revisit it. That is indeed urgently needed. What was the role of the Walloon crisis centre in this? Also in your schedule, I don't see that coming back anywhere. Your argument for shutting down the federal phase was that the acute aid had happened. It was only recovery now. You should tell someone on the premises that it's all over. The need is so great for a lot of people. At some point, after three weeks, we were escorted from the police to a neighborhood in Pepinster with our supplies. Those people hadn't seen anyone after three weeks. Meanwhile, the federal phase had already been completed. How is that possible? I don't understand. Things didn't go wrong everywhere, but in certain places things went terribly wrong. I can see now what the federal support cell is doing. Last week on the premises, I saw a lot more people from Defense, Civil Protection and the fire department. However, these people were mainly busy emptying canals, with verges, removing end-of-life wrecks from the water. That doesn't change the situation of the people in those houses. The recovery phase is long-term for the Region, but we left it to the Region far too early. The evaluation with the learning board is new. Will there be an overall evaluation of the services? How do you see that learning board? Is that under the service? Is that with us? How do you look at a parliamentary committee of inquiry?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u12	Mr President, I shall share my time with Mr Calvo, who will also speak for the Groen part of our political split. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having been able to provide some information and answers to some of the questions I had tabled. I would also like to thank you for the organisation of this committee, although I regret its timing, because I think it is a little late in the course of the disaster. I am very grateful to some of my colleagues, including Mrs Ingels, who has visited the affected regions several times to help. On the night of July 13-14, the water was already rising in Theux, in my commune, and we knew, Madam Minister, that there were risks of flooding. However, yellow alerts, there are several times and I think that the citizens no longer pay attention to these alerts at the hearing of the weather bulletin. In the hours and days that followed, the province of Liège and then all the others were truly hit by unprecedented floods, but after this period of emergency and dread, the reconstruction phase began very slowly. However, today our committee must mark the beginning of the time of analysis. Some refer to commissions of inquiry, others to specific commissions, some to flood commissions. Today, the Walloon Parliament met with a view to setting up its Flood Committee and taking the time to analyse and probably to respond. Finally, we need to know if we are ready enough. You talked about the level we want to have in Belgium. I think, in any case, that we were not ready and that the level was probably below what we would have needed. That is why, Madam Minister, I have tabled a series of questions. I tried to synthesize them in order to obtain more precise response elements. First of all, there is the question of coordination in the field. I was there. All the actors made the same observation: that there was a blatant lack of coordination but also of communication during the management of events. In particular, I recall that the Federal Crisis Centre cancelled all requests for reinforcements for the affected areas on 15 July. Do you have any answers in this regard? Can you confirm that? Another finding of non-compliance was the mismanagement of international aid. We found ourselves in Theux with dozens of Austrian firefighters in particular, but also with German or Dutch equipment that ultimately was useless or unsuitable for our situation. There is also talk of chaotic coordination between crisis cells: local, provincial, regional, federal crisis cells. How do you want a mayor in the midst of a crisis to find himself in all this administrative melody? How can we understand this debacle even though the NCCN has a specific mission to organize management? How can you tell us, on the basis of some of the arguments you put forward, that the governor felt we had to go back to the provincial phase and finally, a few days later, return to a federal support cell? This is proof that there was a coordination problem on the ground! I am sure of this and you will no doubt provide some evidence to justify it. Today, there are many questions about training – as you have said, since you also have some observations. You mentioned Emergency Preparedness, firefighters, equipment, number of personnel. Finally, that's what I've been denouncing since I've been a Member of Parliament and therefore for two years. And if you, Madam Minister, ask yourself these observations, I expect this to be only a starting point in the analysis of crisis management today. I hope that other specific meetings will be held with other ministers so that we can really analyse what has happened, analyse contingency plans, analyse the missions of each other and of the actors on the ground so that we can respond to future disasters. You know that scientists made observations just 15 days ago: this type of disaster, such as the one we have just experienced, risks not only intensifying, but also repeating itself. It is in the face of these repetitions that we must prepare. I wonder about the ability of our relief services to respond to such disasters in the future. I will conclude with the BE-Alert problems, to which my colleague has already referred. I live in Theux, the first of the communes to have been affected, and since 14 July I have received only one text message from BE-Alert telling me that I should stay at home. In fact, it was not possible for me to stay at home because I was underwater! We must also, it seems to me, analyse the use of the BE-Alert system, which is an extraordinary service, but visibly, in the context of the crisis that we have just experienced, it has not been properly used by the actors on the ground. Maybe even some mayors didn't know they could use this communication tool. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens feel abandoned and you know that. Some have lost their homes, their cars, their memories and currently fill dozens of documents for administration, insurance, (...), local actors, while some houses are still collapsing, this has been seen in the news. That we haven't been able to reach disaster victims to evacuate them from their homes is unacceptable. I do not yet know what will be the continuation of our work, but it is certain that our committee will not be enough to shed any light on how to deal with this crisis. Citizens need answers and it is up to us to learn lessons and provide structural answers and find solutions for better preparation. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you, in your opinion, what is the best follow-up to our work? Should a specific committee be set up, an inter-federal commission like Ecolo-Groen has suggested, or a commission of inquiry as others have proposed? I hope you can answer that this afternoon. Thank you in advance for your presence and information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u13	Madam Minister, after the two very convincing and involved interventions, it is with some hesitation that I intervene. I know Mrs Chanson as a very serene and constructive person. But you feel the indignation and the disappointment. She's not alone in that. You have rightly spoken of an unprecedented wave of solidarity, in which we could all draw courage and hope. Despite that unseen wave, I think there is still a lot of anger and rage, including among the volunteers. This is also felt in the interventions of the two colleagues who have just spoken. It is about mayors who have missed a point of contact, about soldiers who were ready to be deployed earlier, but could not be deployed, about people who had to survive for days without drinking water, about the erosion of our emergency services, which was also discussed afterwards. You are the first to speak with Parliament today. I share the view of my fellow Members that we should have done this sooner. You have also indicated that you were available for this. It is, of course, a difficult task to be the first to answer all these questions. After all, it is not just your responsibility. Some things are very structural. Some things couldn't be foreseen. That's why I think it's good that we can have this conversation today. As far as safety is concerned, I agree with a large number of things that have been said. What has not really been addressed in the intervention of Mr Ingels is the functioning of Civil Protection. My group has always been very sceptical and critical of the reform. First of all, I would like to encourage you, Madam Minister, to speed up the evaluation you have announced. In this Parliament there is a very strong demand to do so. In preparation for this committee, I have checked the numbers. How many employees are in Civilian Protection today after all the savings? That was a so-called reform, but rather an exorcism by the previous legislature. Then we have to note that the framework of the Red Devils at the European Championship was more extensive than the Civil Protection. We can't blame people for that. We have to establish that there are too few people and resources. This evaluation must therefore be carried out as soon as possible. Secondly, we're talking about the federal phase. Madam Secretary, you explained in your statement that this is not a black and white matter. Even before the federal phase, there was a federal involvement. The moment this phase is proclaimed, of course, that federal involvement does not disappear from the premises. Afterwards, the federal support cell arrived. Although many conclusions cannot yet be drawn, I believe that one conclusion is already clear: the federal phase has been too short. In my view, Mrs Ingels gave a very remarkable and very passionate presentation. She only asked you why the federal phase was so short. That's not right. Of course, that is an important question for you, but we must ask ourselves some more fundamental questions. After all, we have seen not only now but also during the corona crisis that there is a great deal of restraint towards federal level to take on an important steering role. Madam Minister, if I am not mistaken, you indicated that on 14 July 2021 the governors declared that they could do it themselves and that it was not yet time for a federal phase. We see that too often. That's a normal and very human reaction. As a person and as a person one wants to do good. That is the case for the mayors and governors involved. Somehow, however, that is a form of pride. Strong coordination is needed in a major crisis that is emerging or rolling out. The rest of Belgium must understand that at such a time the federal level must be able to coordinate. You shouldn't even fight for it in your capacity as Minister of the Interior. That is a conclusion to me, namely the gloom that has grown in this country over the past few years. Mrs Ingels, I found your speech very interesting, but you and the N-VA Group must also dare to ask why it is so great. Why is there so often so much headwind when the federal level tries to take on a steering role? This has also been the case at times during the corona crisis. Madam Minister, the federal phase has therefore been too short for me and for my group. However, that question cannot be put to you alone and cannot be answered only in relation to the floods. It needs to be placed in a broader perspective, namely the functioning of our country and the ideas that have become commonplace over the past ten years. Thirdly, on a perspective, I agree with Mrs Ingels' plea to do as much as possible in the short term. Madam Minister, this is perhaps rather a question I should ask the Prime Minister, but there is also a mandate to create a medium-term perspective, including for the affected areas. We are at the beginning of the political year. This means that the Prime Minister is probably preparing his State of the Union. Our majority and our government have taken the idea of making a second phase of the relay policy. Madam Minister, we must ensure that the affected areas also claim a very important place in that second phase of re-launch policy. The announcement by the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Peteghem, to extend, for example, the reduced VAT for demolition and reconstruction to the affected areas is a good example. I'm finishing my third thought. We have drawn up a first relaunch plan with a great deal of attention to the climate, for which the European Commission has congratulated us. If we make a second re-launch plan with a great deal of attention again for the climate, but also for the affected areas, then we will tackle both cause and problem. It hasn't been over today, but in the end what we have unfortunately had to go through may not be the last time. We know the cause: climate change. We must give the affected areas a perspective, with a relance plan, with attention to them, with attention to the climate. Then we tackle both problem and cause. One final comment. This is just a start. Our political family has suggested that the follow-up be streamlined in the womb of an interfederal committee of inquiry. There are other forms to come up with. I have, in all honesty, become somewhat sceptical about such a committee and such high-misses. Now I sound almost like an ancien and see colleague Verherstraeten nodding. Often this elephant has given birth to a mouse in recent years, and we cannot do that. There is a lot of rage today, and if we set up a committee that doesn't come out very well, then that anger will only increase. Let us find a good form together, as far as I am concerned, to find out why things have gone wrong and not who has made a mistake, where most of the attention goes. This is an important task for our Parliament. Madam Minister, you have not only the competence of the Interior, which is the subject of today's debate, but also Institutional Reforms. I believe that an important part of the solution lies in that competence. If we do things right in this country, as we have proven in the second phase of the corona crisis, it is in spite of our state structure. If things go wrong, it's often because of our state structure. Together we have a lot of work to do, which we owe to the people who have been faced with incredible suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u14	First of all, I thank the minister for this fairly comprehensive presentation that we have been waiting for some time. I would like to commend the work of all volunteers from across the country. I would like to stress the exceptional national solidarity that they have shown. I would also like to congratulate all the bodies mentioned in your presentation: the police, the Civil Protection, the fire department and the municipal authorities. All of them mobilized and showed exceptional solidarity in the face of the scale of the disaster. In our country, Civil Protection represents the first dike in the face of a disaster like this. Unfortunately, your predecessor Jan Jambon hurt her. Belgium had six Civil Protection barracks before the previous legislature. There's only two left today. Nearly 1,250 officers and 650 volunteers worked for Emergency Preparedness. The reform has, of course, led to a reduction in the number of staff available to deal with such disasters. As you pointed out: everyone was on the ground, but the problem is that "everyone" represents far less people than before. This is a very clear consequence of your predecessor's reform. We lost volunteers because you will no longer find volunteers willing to travel 200 km to train in Crisnée. In my view, the only way to find volunteers is to re-establish advanced Civil Protection positions. As already mentioned in your presentation of the government's general policy, you refer to an evaluation of the reform. That is a good thing, which is now more than necessary. In order to do this, you are talking about using an external service at the Internal FPS, such as a company or a university, but what we need above all is for this evaluation to be done quickly. We cannot afford to wait six months for a university study that will in any case end in a bad reform. Indeed, it was only a matter of saving money on the back of citizens' security, which, in my view, is a very bad idea. What downsizing has this reform led to in Civil Protection, notwithstanding the continued investment in its equipment? Have we had to use private companies to address any gaps in these services? That is what has been mentioned. At the staff level, there is a total loss of almost 800 people. Can you confirm these figures? I am familiar with the problem of firefighters, since I am president of a rescue zone, as you know. We have had to resume civil protection missions. Have the relief areas been sufficiently funded to resume all of these Civil Protection missions? Has the know-how of the civil protection officers within the civil protection unit moved to the relief areas? I would like you to give me a timing of the assessment you intend to make. I invite you to make proposals quickly. Mr Jambon has made a negative reform; you could make a positive reform of the Civil Protection. It is a long-standing demand of my group, including the return of advanced positions everywhere, for a better distribution of the presence of Civil Protection in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you. I also have a thought for the victims and the people who are still suffering. In listening to the minister's observation, I note first of all that this finding has the merit of being present today. Some regretted that this happened too late. Disasters always happen during the holidays. People aren't always available. In fact, one thing we can say is that there have been a very large number of speakers on the ground. We may wonder whether, at some point, this very large number of stakeholders did not walk on their feet. There were tensions between the speakers. Then, the tables you have presented demonstrate the multitude of decision-making bodies. In times of crisis, however, there is a great principle that wants unity of command. Somewhere, there were several places of command, with instructions that clashed at times. There have also been interventions by external agencies. You talked about the Red Cross. I believe that the Red Cross is not easily integrated with the Defence, with Civil Protection – or what's left of it – and with the communal services. There is always this tension between what is called the humanitarian, the military, the private and the public. I was surprised to see that we are talking about the Belgian Red Cross on one side and its counterpart Rode Kruis Vlaanderen. I did not know that a de facto regionalisation had been carried out, just in the title, at the level of the Red Cross. That should be pointed out. I think there has also been a poor flow of information. This is due to the multitude of social networks and communications – when they remain – and the administrative complexity that prevents rapid action. There is also a problem of pooling available resources. I don't think there's too much money, but I think they're scattered across a whole range of services. It's enough to be there on July 21 to see trucks or vehicles of different colours, but they share the same goals. Therefore, it may be necessary to begin with an inventory of the full range of equipment available to respond to crises. The study was discussed. I believe that the best experts able to say what is not working in Civil Protection are the Civil Protection workers. It is not external studies or audits that will bring credible solutions. They can only add layers to the existing layers, which goes in the opposite direction of simplification. I would also simply say that privatization must be avoided. I am concerned when it is said that calls are made to the market for the provision of meals. In other words, the private sector will enrich itself on the backs of the victims when there is a task to be done. We saw it with hurricanes in Louisiana a few years ago. These were used as a pretext. Just read some books that explain how the private sector has committed at some point to take advantage of the disasters. For Emergency Preparedness, I wonder if transplanting it to Defence in two places, upstream and downstream of it, would not be a solution. Young people who are unemployed and could perform a service of collective utility but who do not want to engage immediately in defence, for example, could very well be hired for the amount of their unemployment benefit or for a pay for civil protection tasks. They would be set up in the defence barracks. The latter are still geographically distributed. There are still Civil Protection barracks in Gembloux and Jabbeke. These are empty when they were previously purchased, with equipment, precisely in order to achieve equitable distribution within the territory. These young people can move on to Defence for a while. Downstream, rather than having members on a reserve, there could be a Emergency Preparedness Reserve, which would allow de facto sharing of available equipment with a certain unit of command and collaboration between public services. This solution, better distributed within a territory, may guarantee the effectiveness of crisis response, depending on their intensity. I thus bring my stone to reflection, without being a member of a study office and without having any particular interest. I am only trying to serve the general interest and the response to crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing. I will not go back to what you mentioned. I would just like to dwell for a moment on the preamble to this meeting. Today, we must not send false messages, do no political show, or recuperation within the framework of this commission. Here I would like to take as a model the sobriety of Mrs Song, whom I know very well and whose commune has been particularly affected, as is the case with many communes in the province of Liège. This is what we expect of each and every one of us today. The response to two imperative questions for victims is also expected. What are we going to do in the short term to allow them to move on? Indeed, solidarity is declining. Many have moved on because of the holidays, the school year, the return to life on a daily basis. Yet the situation of the victims is far from being solved. What are we gonna do? We know that the Red Cross received an eight-month mandate. Why was the mandate set at eight months? Will it be extended if necessary? How will the Red Cross envelope, donations and subsidies be distributed to the most affected municipalities, in particular, in the province of Liège? What will happen beyond these eight months, beyond this mandate? On the other hand, I was very pleased to see federal support for Wallonia. But how long will this support last? Have you fixed it yet? How long will this federal support go to? How will we proceed? I saw your PowerPoint. But have you set targets in terms of duration? Citizens and, in particular, victims also ask themselves another question. It is well known that such cataclysms will unfortunately not be avoided in the future, but they can be prevented and acted upon upstream and, if necessary, downstream in order to avoid such consequences. Are you considering an evaluation of the Federal Emergency Plan? Do you intend to carry out, as my colleague Eric Thiébaut mentioned, an evaluation of the civil protection reform led by Jan Jambon? As my party has always pointed out, this reform is a failure. Unfortunately, we had to see it here. Do you intend to organise a reflection on the basis of all the findings that have been made? I would also like to welcome here all the observations that you have made in all humility on the points that raise the question and which need to be improved. I know that some people tell you that you have to go in a certain direction, that you have to convene working groups, committees. This is about the work of Parliament. It is not up to you, just as it does not belong to me, to define how to proceed. It is up to Parliament to decide what work we will do. It doesn't matter what shape it is. The most important thing for the citizen is to provide answers and improvements in the future. On this point, I think I can say that we all agree. I imagine, indeed, that we will speak with one voice on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u17	Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to express the position of Flemish Interest and ask a few additional questions. Madam Minister, given the current structure in crisis situations, I think it is clear where the problem lies. Some of my colleagues have already referred to it. The disaster confines itself to a municipality, then the mayor is responsible. She expands into a few municipalities, the governor is responsible. And if it extends further, Home Affairs and the Crisis Centre will take control of the disaster. But the weak link in the whole escalation story is the governor. Despite the fact that the governor has an important role to play in managing a crisis, this is not required in the appointment of a governor, on the contrary. If a governor has a role to play as a crisis manager, I think it is imperative that this should be a clear and objective criterion in order to qualify for that position. In addition, as you yourself have said, there is a need for expertise around the governor. Is this expertise, are there employees, involved in the provision of assistance services that can provide the necessary provincial support? You have raised a number of issues relating to the aid services. I want to break a lance for Civil Protection. It is indeed a fact that since the Civil Protection Reform in 2017, this service has actually been beheaded and the number of barracks has been reduced from six to two. The assignments have been hollowed out. There is a lack of financial resources, and so on. Today, Civilian Protection has too few employees. This has been demonstrated in this crisis, and I believe that we urgently need to remedy it. There are too few available aid workers, there are too few resources. What role do you see for our Civil Protection in the future? What measures will you take to support it, both organisationally and financially? You also mentioned the fire department. I'm actually following your analysis. There is indeed a lack of unity of command, unlike the police. We need to work on that. That's a proper analysis. My question is whether there are concrete plans for a reform of the fire department, for setting up a central command? What resources will then be made available for this purpose? I also have questions about defence, but I do not think there is much point in putting them in this committee. I believe that we must ask the Ministers who are responsible for this matter and who must be able to answer it properly. As regards the coordination of emergency aid, Mrs Ingels has made a valid analysis. I believe that, both during and after the disaster, the main problems have been caused by a lack of communication and coordination. Mrs. Ingels has told a number of stories. We have all been able to read them. Victims had to wait for hours for help, sometimes weeks after the disaster still not started in certain areas. I agree with the request to update and evaluate the contingency plans, and not to wait. When do you plan this evaluation? What conclusions can you draw on the lack of coordination and communication? What reforms will you undertake to anticipate the future? Are there any current roadmaps which include the tasks of the various aid services? Were they communicated and tested? Are consultations on this subject planned? It is clear that we must make an overall assessment of this crisis. We all agree on that. It doesn't matter whether this happens in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration, in collaboration with other committees, or whether this happens in an investigation committee or by an interfederal committee. It must be done, in what way is not only in the hands of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs, but the Chamber must be able to give a full opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u18	I thank you, Madam Minister, for having done this exercise – that we were indeed very eagerly waiting this afternoon – to understand the chronological order that led to the management experienced in a very complicated way in some communes. I'll come back. Of course, in Eupen and other municipalities in the province, we are extremely grateful for all these men and women who returned from vacation and tried to coordinate aid as best they could. I would also like to thank the federal police. I know she came to Eupen for backup. We no longer had any capacity to secure neighbourhoods in connection with certain acts of looting and theft. It also existed. Similarly, I would like to thank my other Flemish colleagues who have done and continue to report on this great solidarity and continuity in the assistance that we absolutely need in the municipalities heavily affected by these floods. Thank you for continuing to work together to enable us to recover quickly from this national disaster. Behind this catastrophe there are men and women who suffer, who have nothing, who no longer have clothes, who no longer have a house, who are waiting and who obviously ask for answers. It is September 1st and we will be in a few months' time in winter. We will need to work together on rehousing responses. I hear that we must also make it a national matter. This is of course what I also wish with all my heart for many answers. I have tabled a series of questions that do not only affect your skills. I'm still going to try to focus on what I've noticed. I would like to share with you things that I have noticed, being political leader in the municipality of Eupen, which have been relayed to me by mayors of my region. This is the lack of coordination in crisis management within the various centres. With the rising floods and the information received from the weather services, it was clear that an evacuation would be inevitable. However, it must be noted that the decision-makers of the communes have found themselves very alone in making these decisions. They also found themselves very alone while waiting for the proceedings to take place, for the arrests to be taken. In Eupen, we evacuated before receiving the approval of the competent crisis centre. Do you think that's normal? It's not a charge. In terms of operation, of period as intense as the one we have experienced, as well as our compatriots, it is obvious that these tools must work better. I am surprised to hear that, at the request of the governors, the national phase was shortened to finally have to resume ten days later. I cannot understand this way of working: on the ground, I have found that it causes a lot of practical problems and that the municipalities are very alone. We also talked about risk management. As you rightly said, Minister, the Royal Meteorological Institute (RMI) has set up a series of alarms. However, it must be noted that it often does so and that we have not been able to see or predict the intensity of the diluvian rains that we have experienced, especially in the province of Liège, and subsequently in other provinces. How could we have more accurate information? They must be so precise that they do not cause too much panic, while at the same time making it possible to prepare. At this level, risk management is very important. Like my colleague Mrs. Song, I heard that requests for reinforcement in the federal phase had been denied. What about it? As far as BE-Alert is concerned, I received three messages. This tool should be used to provide useful information to the public. I still see that this beautiful tool is quite perfect and we will have to look at an improvement. As far as follow-ups are concerned, I will listen carefully to your answers. It is clear that many things will have to be discussed in the coming days and that questions will remain about the effectiveness of the response in the event of a major national crisis and the solutions to be proposed. Whether it is a special committee or not, we must be able to work together, without political policy, on improving structures in order not to avoid such natural disasters but to know how to react much more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u19	Madam Minister, I would like to begin by expressing once again our condolences to the victims and, above all, our gratitude to all the aid workers and, indeed, to the volunteers who have been used for the people and areas affected. Thank you, too, Madam Minister, for you are the first to take up the towel to give Parliament a state of affairs and to take a long time to give your vision. First of all, I would like to focus on crisis management during the federal phase. At that stage, the management of the emergency situation and policy coordination at all levels came with you. However, there is no unified command to control the emergency services on site. That is why, among other things, the area commander of the Antwerp relief zone and the Crisis Centre have written in the press that consideration should be given to organising a central command in the event of major disasters. Do you recognise this problem and what is your view on it? Are you prepared to examine whether further regulatory steps are needed in this respect? Can you also explain what possible slopes you already have in mind to address this problem? In your explanatory statement, you mentioned the provision of funds to the fire department by the national logistics hub and said that coordination of the use of these resources should also remain a focus. We therefore call for a unified command. I believe that coordination problems can be solved in this area too. I have heard several people speak about the reform of civil protection. It is generally known that I was not a great supporter of this reform, but this disaster shows that an evaluation is insisting. I am therefore pleased that you have already taken the initiative. You have written to eight Belgian universities so that they can apply from tomorrow for the invitation to tender. It is important that an in-depth evaluation can be carried out and appropriate measures can be taken. After all, we must avoid rushing, driven by the emotions that we feel today. It is important to wait for the results of the investigation to be able to make the right decisions afterwards. In your explanatory statement, you stated that civil protection has sufficient material at its disposal. I believe you, but I hear that there are also pumps in the old house in Jabbeke that have not been used. Is this message true? Weren't they necessary? Is it necessary or not to use all available material in the event of crises? It is worrying that there is still a shortage of staff in civil protection. The reform has reduced the number of volunteers present. When in the past I tried to explain to the previous minister that a volunteer who, for example, is voluntary for part of West Flanders in Jabbeke and who now has to go to Brasschaat, will probably be less inclined to do so. The figures I received also show that there were fewer volunteers. If there had been more volunteers, they would have been ready by the sense of urgency to go to the disaster area also from Jabbeke and other places in Flanders and Wallonia. It is therefore worrying that there is still a shortage of staff. However, the recruitment of new civil protection candidates operating on boats has been delayed by COOVID-19, which you have also mentioned. Have these training courses been resumed in the meantime? Is it possible to speed them up so those people would be more employable? In your policy statement, you also said that more specialised profiles would be attracted for civil protection. Have any steps been taken to that end? Also because of the long intervention times due to the closure of the four barracks specialized people will be needed, spread throughout our country. Much has already been said about the federal phase, because the end of the federal phase was clearly done after thorough consultation. You have clearly stated that all the partners concerned agreed that the recovery phase should be followed up at the level of the Länder. The Di Rupo government therefore agreed and the governors also fully supported this approach. You have made that quite clear yourself. However, it soon became clear that they were not masters of the situation. To the frustration of victims, aid workers and all volunteers, the coordination of aid without that federal direction turned partly into the soup. I was therefore particularly pleased to see that you did take responsibility and set up the federal support cell. However, this does not mean that no federal resources were available in the period between the end of the federal phase and the establishment of the cell. Can you explain more about what resources were available during that period? Do you think, with the knowledge of today, that the federal phase has ended too early? How do you evaluate the cooperation with, and functioning of, the provincial governors involved and the provincial crisis cells? I have heard a lot of emotion from colleagues from the Walloon part of the country express their opinion here. That got to me. In any argument between the rules, the question arises as to how we can better support the governors. How do you feel about that? Can there be more in that respect? I've heard a lot about the BE-Alert communications system. That's where we left off the odds. I wonder whether the federal government has repeated this sufficiently clearly and sufficiently often with regard to the mayors... they must do it after all. In such crises, such a message can quickly bring reassurance on the mobile phone, or be a clear march on what needs to be done. Probably the system hasn't been used enough. Did we point it out to the mayors and governors during the crisis? The victims will need all the help they can get. A number of colleagues have already said that there will be a great deal of talk about housing. I'm really wondering. If I were faced with such a problem myself, I would not know how to start to take care of all those people for a longer period of time. That is the competence of the Länder. Mr Calvo referred to the initiative of Minister Van Peteghem for a reduced VAT rate. I'll talk about it later, but federally, you should be able to be the engine to help wherever we can, for those people, too. Finally, Madam Minister, in your future vision, you proposed that we continue to develop a multi-disciplinary, inter-departmental and inter-regional national crisis committee, which is closely linked to the interregional partners. How will this take shape? Do you see this in the form of a Green Paper? When can we expect this? Within what time limit will you start consulting with all relevant actors to achieve results. As far as the regulation of work is concerned, let us work from what we have heard and learned, let us see how this can be done in the shortest possible time. It can't be the intention to smear this out and take a long time. We've never seen a disaster like this before. What are the pain points? What can we learn from that? How should we do this? That is a task for many ministers together, each with its own individual responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u20	I would like to begin my speech with a warm and supportive thought for all those affected. What happened is terrible for thousands of people. I'll have a word for all the volunteers too. Such spontaneous solidarity has been a major political fact for our country and has in fact replaced what the public authorities should have done. I've been on the premises for several days. It was felt that solidarity, the spirit of initiative from all parts of the country and everything that was done could have been largely done by our public services. I have a failed state feeling. Whoever was there weeks later really got the feeling of "where is the State?" I'm a little uncomfortable about it. In your speech, you say that there were some things that were not right, but that everything worked overall. That gives a certain feeling of we did what we could. You will also hear from the Members who are here: it has clearly not been enough. When people tell you they're getting the BE-Alert text message, there's already a meter and a half of water in their house. It's bankruptcy! What is this signal sent to the citizens! What a massive signal that our authorities were on another planet! Today people say their house rots on its feet: molds are there! Who brings them dehumidifiers? There's no one here. We still have a problem. You're telling us we had between 180 and 484 soldiers on the scene. In everyone's head here, he thinks it's shame. We have 24,000 soldiers! I'm not criticizing the military. They have not been ordered to do so. I guess everyone thinks, "mannekes, mannekes!" Two hundred soldiers have been sent. Where's the problem? I was waiting for a presentation from our minister to acknowledge that we had some big problems and to propose to analyze them all together directly. I don't feel that way. I will therefore ask a few very specific questions, Madam Minister, to address them. That is why a commission of inquiry must be set up. You're the first one to go through the discussions. I agree with colleagues who are wondering where the other ministers are. Where's the Prime Minister? That's our problem. My questions are not going to go through all the problems. First, regarding the forecasts, you're talking about the yellow alert. You say there are plenty – five or six a year – and it is therefore normal that people have not reacted. I don't agree. The testimonies of field actors and meteorologists are quite clear. Hannah Cloke, EFAS collaborator, said that the floods that took place corresponded very well, at the level of the distribution scale, to what was planned several days in advance. Several days in advance, the clear analyses have been published. There was up to 60% chance that there would be very heavy showers that would cause problems there. That doesn't happen five or six times a year. As long as the drop is in the clouds, the federal government has jurisdiction, the RMI. The RMI needs to make analyses of what happens to that drop. As soon as that drop is falling down from there, as soon as it comes into contact with a river in Belgium, the federal minister is no longer competent, but the regional minister. That's weird. That is not explained to the peoples of Europe and the world. No one can understand that the drop in the sky is federal, the drop in the rivers is regional. And you say it here today: "Ah no, EFAS, she didn't send us anything. We didn't know. We knew it was going to rain a lot, but we didn't know the rivers were going to overflow out of their bed. The federal did not know, it was the responsibility of the Region to react." What the hell? It's shame! It's the failure of the state! We must therefore have a debate here, ladies and gentlemen, on how to avoid any such catastrophe. Of course it is the reforms of the state: the 5th, 6th, 7th... we already knew with the covid that it was the brothel in Belgium, we already knew it at the level of the climate, and now we know it at the level of the management of such crises: federalization, the fragmentation of competences do not work. Clearly, it is at the federal level that it is important to coordinate such cases. Let's talk about it! Minister, on July 26, who asked you to disable the federal plan? That's what we need to know! Who asked you? According to the press, this is following a meeting with Mr. Di Rupo. Did the Walloon Region ask you to disable the federal phase? That is the question! We will ask very specific questions. You are saying quickly, minister, that there is no big difference between the federal plan and two provinces that act bilaterally. Are you serious? You say that the federal plan is not very important, since two provinces can communicate with each other. No, Madam Minister! It is the concentration of forces that is necessary! The concentration of forces! I am surprised that nothing is indicated here today, Madam Minister. You're saying that the deal needed to be... Are the governors who have obstructed? To my knowledge, when two provinces are in crisis and the means are not sufficient in one of the two provinces, the federal emergency plan can be triggered. Let us address the question of means, Madam Minister, at the level of the army! I know that the Minister of Defence is not here, but still today, people need to be fed, to get help on the ground. Every day, I still get messages about it. Is the army going to stay there? Why were only 350 to 400 members sent in despite requests? These are all concrete questions! Minister, I am not happy with your first answers. I think other models are possible. Germany thus approached the issue in a slightly different way. In Germany there was an effective force of the federal government. This has not been the case in our country. I would like to know why that was not the case. I shall now give the floor to my colleague Nabil Boukili, who will be talking about civil protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u21	The civil protection reform introduced under the previous legislature was solely designed to save money. The logic of our policy for years has been to think about how to further weaken our public services, how to take back money at the expense of citizens' needs. These are not just a few mechanical changes: the reform reduces the number of barracks from six to two. It also provides for a 30 per cent reduction in staff. With regard to the assessment of the reform mentioned by colleagues, Madam Minister, the reality has already given a fairly clear result: this reform has been a disaster. We should not wait for the catastrophe that our country experienced to know that this reform would not work. To find out if something works, I'm used to questioning people in the field. And at the time, the people on the ground – workers and trade unions – said that this reform was catastrophic and that we would not be able to cope with the situations we experienced in our country. The reality gave them reason. The only thing these workers and trade unionists asked for was to be listened to. Mr Jambon and the previous government must therefore assume political responsibility for this bad reform. However, the reform is based on a 2007 law. Therefore, all successive governments and parties that formed them share a share of this responsibility. Indeed, the 2007 law delegates a parliamentary power – that of legislating on the organisation of our barracks – to the executive. So it was this law that allowed Mr. Jambon to remove four out of six barracks. This Act provides that there may not be more than one barracks per province. On the other hand, no one cared to ensure that there was at least one barracks per province. In addition, in terms of staff, 810 staff have been missing since the reform was introduced. Is that a figure you are confirming, Madam Minister, that this reform has cost 810 officers since it was implemented? Another element is the emergency areas. They are also de-funded and lack staff and equipment. They faced a situation in which they did not have the means to do their job. I have a pretty interesting anecdote. When there were these floods, our Civil Protection sent 30 agents. I make it clear that I am not questioning the will and dedication of the staff. I'm talking about the political decisions that have shown their bankruptcy here. Following the floods, Civil Protection sent 30 officers and six boats during the first days. Just to compare, the Netherlands, which came to our aid, sent us 80 agents and 16 boats. Is there not a sense of shame in this Parliament, in the political class that runs this country, that the aid we have received from the Netherlands is greater than our own means in the face of such a disaster? I think that instead of turning the ball between the Region, such ministers, such powers – I think my colleague Raoul Hedebouw has expressed it well – instead of looking to whom to throw the hot potato, it would be good to question all the logic; all this logic of dispersal of skills, but also all this liberal logic that always pushes down the means of public services, which are the only bulwark in the face of such a disaster. And this bulwark, it was political decisions that brought it down. If we continue with this logic, we will not be able to deal with such disasters. That is why a commission of inquiry is more than necessary in order to draw up recommendations that will – in any case, for us – form the basis of a much stronger vision and policy, which is more adapted to the needs of the ground, which is more adapted to the means necessary; and not only a policy of economies completely disconnected from the needs of the Regions, the needs of the provinces and municipalities, and completely disconnected from the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u22	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence and for giving detailed explanations and answers to the many questions asked. Our group would like to begin by thanking all the professionals, volunteers and citizens who helped to combat the disaster. We would also like to express our condolences to the people who lost family and friends in the disaster. Colleagues, once again, it has been shown that organising and guaranteeing security is the core task of the government and the public authorities. The aid is once again at the top of the agenda, even here in committee. Of course there is a cause and a consequence and there are the symptoms. Madam Minister, today we are discussing the symptoms, particularly the question of how they have been dealt with. That is at the heart of what we are discussing here in the Federal Parliament. The cause has already been mentioned a few times here, namely climate change. She's part of the cause, but that problem won't be solved next week or next year either. Part of the cause are matters for which the Regions are today competent, such as land-use planning, road construction, water flow management and the small and large rivers. Something can be changed in the short term. I am pleased to hear that in the Walloon Parliament there is a committee of inquiry dealing with this matter and that part of the cause. Madam Secretary, you've already explained the evacuation. You threw a pebble, namely that perhaps it is time to move faster and more stringently to evacuation. I'm mayor of a small town. A mayor can do a lot with security. Maybe it's good to give the mayors more tools to do that. After all, the mayor knows the terrain and has a great deal of confidence in the people to do so. So that is a possible solution, to implement the faster evacuation. What I haven't heard much about is the looting that happened after the disaster. The police have had a lot of work to do with this, even in very difficult circumstances. This is also something that can be worked on in the longer term. I know that this is not the essence of today, but perhaps it is something to take with it. Many colleagues have spoken about solidarity. It was very big. Within my fire zone last week there was a zone council, in which the zone commander explained in detail that many firefighters from our zone East in Flemish Brabant, were immediately deployed in the disaster areas. That's good. From all over the country, the firefighters started helping. That is a good thing. The upper structure, the coordination may need to be improved. During the zoning council, the mayor of Oud-Heverlee told a strange story. He said it was good that our firefighters were going to help in the disaster area, but one day after that, he had a big problem in his community. The fire department didn't show up because it was helping in the disaster area. The Nete, a small river that comes from Wallonia, suddenly, unannounced, flooded streets in his municipality. He could understand that there was no fire department, but he could not understand that he had not been informed by the VMM or by other regional authorities that that water was coming. That's incomprehensible. This once again reveals the need for greater cooperation in the field of water management, regional competence, especially at such times. The water did come from Wallonia to Flanders. A number of cases could have been avoided by prior flow of information. There's gotta be some work to do on that. That water doesn't stop at the regional borders, it just goes on. EFAS, the European Flood Awareness System, apparently contacted the regions before contacting the federal government. Was it? Has that been remediated by now? Can you explain that more clearly? Perhaps I have been misinformed, but I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for the introduction. It is a very interesting overview, but I do not think it is the debate we should be having here today. I feel that way about everything I've heard here on the committee. There are many interesting points, but we are debating it as if it were a far-from-our-bed show, as if it were a political dossier as many pass by here, with lengthy explanations but with few concrete solutions. It is then about when the committee should have met, and not about why. You give a nice overview of the first days, but little about what should happen right now in order to offer extra help. Because it is still very much needed. We have asked a lot of people to volunteer with the Red Cross from day one. A lot of people from here have been on the premises. I also signed up from day one. That was also the message from the beginning, not going there on its own, but using the organised system. This is not the way to get in the way of the aid workers. Then it would all be fine. I did this, too. Not to stand there from day one with a dirty T-shirt and my work boots on for the photo, but especially to do what we have asked so many people to do, especially to help and show solidarity. It is also important to stress here in committee what happens then. We must then wait for weeks as a volunteer in order to get our hands up. When one arrives on the spot, it is noted that little is organized. That is not because there are too many helping hands or so much has already happened, but above all because the organisation was simply not about to. People don't know that on that particular day a volunteer comes by on that particular hour to help them. Often their home is uninhabitable and they are not in their home at the time. They also need to go back to work. They're not here to open the door. Then they won't get any help that day. There are a lot of other things too. There's no material like that. It's not structured properly. We need to ask ourselves a number of questions about this. After all, we can ask ourselves whether it is indeed complicated to ensure that people are informed of the fact that hot meals are being provided. We've seen a number of people on the scene who didn't even know there was a food truck in place. This was already gone when the people were aware of it. We have to ask ourselves whether we can organise them differently. Can't we do this better from the government? There were a number of volunteers from a group of 40 people who hadn't gotten in anywhere because the people weren't informed. They saw squares and streets full of debris but there was no container to clean this up. So they were actually twisting their fingers, which is extremely unfortunate. When I got there two weeks ago, it looked like that flood had happened the day before and not a month and a half ago. So there's still a lot of work to be done. I immediately felt that the local Chiro organization might have been able to organize it more structured or better than what I saw there. We must then ask ourselves how people can have confidence in our government, a strong government that takes on that task and ensures that there are meals. That's not an impossible case. As a number of colleagues have already said, aid in Germany and the Netherlands, for example, has taken place in a different way. In Germany, also a federal state which has called in the aid of the Red Cross, it has been much quicker to mobilise resources to make a difference very quickly on the ground. In the Netherlands, the Red Cross made sure that there were actually almost immediately reception places available very quickly. It's also sealed off zones so they'd be secure. There were patrols so no one could enter them anymore to prevent looting. That really is a difference from what we have seen in our country. I feel like we're losing a little bit of 'pointing to each other': the federal level to the Regions, the governors, the local level, all with good intentions but the real coordination stays out of it. As a result, of course, no house is built and no container is filled. Spontaneous volunteers have succeeded in getting there massively from day one and sometimes days to day. Sometimes they've given up their leave completely. Day after day, they've driven miles to make a difference. They did. It is then a bit acidic that the Red Cross is only there ten days later to offer meals, for example. They then offered 1,000 meals, while at that time 20,000 meals were needed. It's a bit acidic that they would take over, but couldn't offer the same thing. The large group of spontaneous volunteers has proposed a document, which we have all received. They organized a discussion on this yesterday. It's interesting to read that, because their conclusion is pretty harsh. It is about the complex Belgian structure, clarity, different units and governments. Everything actually contributes to inefficient management. It also outlines a number of very poignant situations. Old people who were only discovered after 15 days and have actually been there for 15 days without any help. They weren't available, they didn't have a cell phone or the Internet. People who have survived for two weeks on crisps bags lying in the attic, people who have committed suicide in the period when there was no help because there was simply no one to get to them. Those are quite serious examples. Same thing about those hot meals. If the many volunteers who had not planned many hot meals in those first days and even now, what would have happened? If this disaster had not happened in the summer months, if many volunteers could free themselves, what would have happened? However, it is a punishment that, as a government, and by that I mean all governments, not specifically the federal ones, we do not manage to organise these basic services. We do not manage to take control of it ourselves and must leave it to organisations. We must also admit that food distribution is not the core business of the Red Cross either. So we have a lot of questions to ask ourselves. Many residents feel abandoned, that feeling has translated well to a number of colleagues. They rely on a strong government that not only makes the analysis, but also provides solutions. I have the impression that they are also counting on Parliament not to have the discussions now which will also be very important in the weeks to come, but the real debate on what needs to be done now, at the moment. In today's debate, I hear three interesting things often coming back, which are not currently being discussed. For example, I belong to many of my fellow Members who are atonement. They say that in the end a lot of things have been handled well and that there has been a lot of help since the first days. Of course, that is true and it is not obvious to anyone, but I do not think that we should beat ourselves to death for that. That is absolutely below the minimum. People who still live in a tent in their garden after a month and a half have not been helped. Secondly, I have heard a number of colleagues call for a committee of inquiry to be set up. That doesn't warm me up either. Personally, I do not think that we are going to help many people by sitting 700 hours in a row in a committee and making a series of recommendations, half of which we are not even going to implement or postpone for a very long time. At the moment, the essence is to ensure that something happens now. A third point that has rightly been frequently raised is the savings, the reforms, the civil protection, you name it. My colleague will be back in a moment. It cannot be explained and a lot has indeed gone wrong, I think we all agree on that. The question remains: what now? What do we do today more than point to each other and to possible causes of what has happened and what has gone wrong? Madam Secretary, at the end you spoke of a first look back. The people who are still in need and are not sure whether they will have a home and heating and electricity will not yet look back on what has happened. They're still in the middle of it. This means that there are actually only two relevant questions today. First of all, how do we help the people who are still in the middle of it as quickly and concretely as possible? What can the federal government do for them? Secondly, how do we ensure that when this happens again, what can we do differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u24	Mr President, I would like to speak today not only as a member of the committee, but also as mayor of an affected city. As mayor, I literally plowed in the water and mud with boots, days in a row. There have been very serious signals since 13 July that my region would be hit by heavy water pollution, and they are trying to anticipate this as well as possible. Couldn't we have done that in more places? Couldn't we have reacted more preventively in more places, in the light of all those weather forecasts? Couldn't we have warned some citizens much better? Couldn't we have evacuated them preventively? Madam Secretary, you are right: it is not in our nature to leave quickly. I had to evacuate people myself on mayor's orders because it was absolutely necessary. Could BE-Alert have meant more to the people? I think so, and I hear that here from colleagues and from the aid workers on the ground themselves. Should the federal phase be invoked more quickly, even if some governors didn't think it was necessary? It is obvious that this was necessary, because it was clear very quickly that a lot of streets and houses would be white. Let me be very clear about one thing. My city was still reasonably spared compared to other cities and municipalities. Luckily, we didn't have any casualties, and we didn't have to evacuate a lot of people. That's important, isn't it? If I look at the broader picture of our country, then we must dare to see that there is still a lot of trouble and suffering in many places today. In this speech, I would particularly like to highlight two aspects: on the one hand the federal and provincial contingency plan and on the other hand the crisis aid provided by firefighters, police, military and civil protection. I think it is an understatement to say that this clearly did not go well. It has been said a number of times: there was far too little unity of command. The major problem seems to lie just under the most crucial pillar for disaster relief, communication. The communication was often not good. It is precisely that command that is covered by communication. Today we lack legislation to determine who gets that central command in the event of major disasters. We say it was too soon for the federal phase to be reduced after ten days. We can say all kinds of things about that, but even if we had the federal phase, I do not know if that would have helped a lot in terms of aid. The Crisis Center may be important for the information and the coordinating function, but it does not have a direct command function. That is something we must think hard about for the future: how can we set up an operational command system? A great deal has already been said about crisis aid. It must be clear that the public authorities have a duty to guarantee the safety of all citizens, and certainly the safety of citizens who are in danger, who are in need. Because for that, we all pay taxes: for a strong government. For the emergency services. Firefighters, police, civil protection, have been suffering from savings for years. Several times it was warned that all these savings would be detrimental to aid when needed. I believe that this situation has taught us in part that if there is a real disaster, they cannot provide adequate help. Unfortunately, this disaster has made this very clear. It just can't be that people have to sit on their roofs for hours because the emergency services simply don't get there. If there are people on their roofs, the police shouldn't be looking for the fire department and the fire department shouldn't hope the army will come. I believe it has been proven that there is a great deal of solidarity. Flemish firefighters have spontaneously moved to Wallonia. That's very good, but it actually has to be done through an interfederal cell. Now a lot of Flemish firefighters went there, but when they arrived on the premises they found that there was simply no direction for them. I shall conclude with that, Mr President. I believe that our emergency services are not adequately managed in the event of major disasters today. That is a clear point of reference. On the one hand, it must be concluded that there is a need for a strong government that can guarantee disaster relief. On the other hand, there must be clear unity of command in order to be able to deal effectively with the problems in the field. I believe that our citizens should be able to count on it. That is their right, and at the same time our duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u25	Mr President, I will begin by thanking, as others have done, the vastness of the volunteers mobilized and who continue to be mobilized – to a lesser extent, because of the holidays, which allowed some to be more free and because we were at the very heart of the gravity of the situation. Now the forces are starting to sluggish, but I would like to thank them as well as all the local agents who were on the front line. Some of them were clumsy, which we can talk about, but they were there. They have had to deal with huge deficiencies in other services. I would also like to thank all the men who have intervened from the various departments. Let them not take it for them, but we have grievances to make with regard to the structure! Their work is in no way called into question, it is known that their mobilization has been very strong. They were themselves affected, however, they worked tirelessly. We will return to the "staff" element: the number of persons available within the various services. I'll come back. I have had the opportunity, starting this committee, to report on the current situation. It is not that I am not interested in the past, we will return to it, but I would like to make you aware of the current and persistent situation in a number of communes and which is quite dramatic. I am thinking in particular of Pepinster, of which we know that it was the commune that was most affected. We are in daily contact not with political agents who could find some ways to advertise themselves, but with people on the spot, associations that continue to work, volunteers. They really alert us to the health situation. We know that there are a lot of children who are starting to get sick because of living in moisture and developing a whole series of pathologies. There is an emerging social tension on the basis of observations: why has the neighbour received more donations than I did, why is his situation being dealt with more? How is that done? There are a number of tensions. Some extremely affected neighbourhoods are real time bombs at the social level. I took Pepinster as an example, but there are others of course: I mention the situation I know. These are real time bombs at the social level that are developing. We know that we are already faced with an extremely fragile public, whose fragility has been multiplied by the situation they are living in, with houses completely affected,... A number of households are not insured and do not see how to act. My request is to take care of these people as a matter of priority now. Of course, at some point, we will have to convene commissions to find out what has and has not worked, etc. Of course! But if you tell me today that you don't want a commission now, because you want to devote all your strength to the fight to be waged on housing, to the support cell you talked about, so that these people have to eat every day, can have heating or hot water or both, because there are always households with young children who don't have hot water or heating. If you tell me you'll come later with this, because now the emergency has to be absolute: everyone, all the services are on the ball in coordination with the volunteers on the spot, because it's too easy to say, "We're going to put you aside." These people know the situations, they know exactly what a household needs, I think that, really, it would be the top priority of the federal government. Of course, there are regional skills, as we know, but hand in hand, it would be wise to work together. You have set up a cell to continue the federal support phase at the level of the Commissioner for Reconstruction. We need resources! Of course, the Red Cross is there, but their positions are sometimes decentralized to the place where people live. They no longer have vehicles and do not know how to go to the Red Cross. Very few shops are available, because they have been destroyed. So there's a lack of food. In Pepinster, businesses don't know how to supply people who are in need. They don't know! There's a bakery for 12,000 people! Alone, two businesses have reopened: medium or large areas that do not know how to supply everyone. It is imperative that the aid continues and does not say: "Listen in 15 days, we are folded up", whether it is the Defence that is present or the Red Cross, saying: "In essence, there is no possibility. We don't need to be there anymore!" I'm sending an alarm signal, too, in favor of the door-to-door. At present, we are told that the ONE, for example, goes door-to-door to households where young children are ill. We're told, "We're not going to go door-to-door!" Why not? Why not? These people do not know how to travel at the moment with huge races or with a young child, who is ill and who does not know how to travel several kilometres. That is what this is all about, especially in Pepinster. In Trooz, the situation is not very different. I really ask you to give absolute priority to this question. This is our responsibility today. The priority is to help these people, to deploy all possible means (caravans, containers, housing, heating equipment) so that these people can be protected from the time of work, pending compensation. Of course, the question arises of the alert system. You talked about the weather reports. You explained the situation. You also said that a number of people did not want to leave and that it was complicated to evacuate them. The future will tell us whether the crisis centre in the province of Liège has actually contented itself, as some agents claim, with sending an e-mail to the mayors asking them to evacuate the areas which were at risk of being flooded. Members of the crisis centre told me, for their part, that they had called the mayors. There is no real risk culture in Belgium and some mayors may have thought it was not important. In my opinion, – you may confirm this to me – legally, as soon as we are in the provincial phase, that the Crisis Centre has taken the hand, that the governor gives evacuation orders, the mayors have to comply with it, just like the population. At that time, there is no question of an option. I would therefore like to see clarification and to know what really happened after the information was communicated by the province, the Crisis Centre, to the local agents. Was a simple e-mail sent to them? Have they been called? In my view, there is no doubt that the binding nature is legally binding. Therefore, why did he decide not to proceed with the evacuation? Why do some say they have not been informed, as is the case with Verviers? We talked about BE-Alert. You may recall that on 14 July we were debating the Pandemic Law in plenary. During my speech, I had already arrested you because there had already been a flood in my commune, Aywaille, on the night of 13-14 July. A first wave came and, on the day of the 14th, things became more widespread. We'd been beating up all night. We already had echoes from other communes where the situation was complicated. For my part, I received a text message on July 15 at 7:53 a.m., asking that I not leave my home because roads were barred. The water had risen on the night of the 13th to the 14th in my commune and in others as well. In some communes, this happened much later. I ask myself the question of awareness. Who register on BE-Alert? Some people are not sensitized and do not download the app. That's a first problem. Then, those who downloaded it received very inconsistent, late and inadequate messages. What happened? You explained that this is happening at another level. But we can't always put the blame on the others. It cannot be said that this is not within his competence. We have the right to know why the BE-Alert system and the evacuation system did not work properly. My colleagues have pointed out – and you have mentioned – that coordination between the various services that operate on the spot remains very chaotic. Each department does what it has to do, and does it well, but without knowing exactly what the other does next door. Colleagues have argued for better coordination, I am of course in favour of it. But I wonder why the arrangements provided for in the 2019 Royal Decree on emergency planning and emergency management at the municipal and provincial levels, the role of the mayors, etc. have not been activated. Not only strategic but above all operational coordination is foreseen. Why has this centralizing body not been activated? Legal tools exist. Are we going to add another layer, whereas this is already a problem in coordination? Why has the Director of the Operations Command Post (Dir-PC-Ops) not been put in place, at least in its operational part? Of course, it will take multidisciplinary teams for the future. I'm going to Civil Protection. We heard you ordered a public procurement, etc. A year ago, in July 2020, a motion for a resolution was tabled by us and co-signed by colleagues in order to review this absurd – absurd reform because it did not meet the expectations of the ground. I am told that as a result of this reform, the equipment that was in the barracks that was removed was sold out altogether. He was not placed in the two remaining settlements. Do you confirm that? It is, of course, completely aberrant if it is. The resolution provides for a number of things. It was voted in the parliamentary forum. Do we need a study service to think about what we know with the support of technical skills? As you suggested in your conclusions, this reform does not correspond to anything. Was the previous Civil Protection formula the right one? Maybe not, but now's probably not the right one. The events have obviously given rise to this resolution, which has been here for a year and is awaiting implementation by the government. Indeed, the proximity of the barracks remains a real problem. As we have said dozens of times, Emergency Preparedness is too far away for the current fire services to go through it. They therefore order a number of services in the private sector rather than refer to Civil Protection. During the crisis of the covid-19, the fire departments disinfected their own equipment for the transport of the sick. The question was raised as to why it was not the Civil Protection department that handled it when it was equipped and trained for such missions. This is not a challenge to the functions of the Civil Protection staff. As you said, they've all been in the field. In particular, I was told that they had been of formidable efficiency in Pepinster, to accompany the first hours and rescues. This is the question of a reform that does not correspond to the expectations of the field and that demolishes a number of agents who prefer to go to other services rather than having to travel tens of kilometres to reach their place of work. Of course, the previous government has made a general disinvestment in the security services. You have made provision for additional resources, particularly for emergency areas. Of course, they are not enough to achieve a 50 per cent balance for the municipality and 50 per cent for the federal government. Instead, we find ourselves in a balance of 75% to 25%. The municipalities are therefore very poor. I will conclude with a point that does not fall within your competence – which is why I have asked Minister Vandenbroucke –: urgent medical aid. There was no urgent media support in the affected areas. Some areas waited more than a week before someone arrived. There was no urgent medical aid for the "little wounded" who could be treated on the spot. I have learned that urgent medical assistance depends on your colleague and I will ask him about it. Medical assistance is still sorely lacking, especially in areas where people cannot go to hospitals. Madam Minister, I hope that you will give priority to helping and accompaniment to the victims, who are not worthy of a state of duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, many relevant things have been said, so I will be brief. I went to Pepinster last week. You have to look at things with your eyes to measure the seriousness of the situation. I support Mrs Matz's comments on the health situation and the social tensions on the spot. The inhabitants of these regions are waiting for the authority of the state – the state in the broad sense: federal state, regions, provinces, etc. The federal has to do its part, the army was still there, and there are emergencies that are still not resolved today. Minister, you have answered many of my questions and I thank you for that. I will stress only two points: civil protection and coordination. With regard to Civil Protection, on 9 July 2020, this Parliament adopted a motion for a resolution expressing its deep concern about the consequences of the 2017 Civil Protection Reform. This resolution made a number of demands that my party still supports today. Sophie Rohonyi said at the time that this reform only highlighted the previous government's willingness to loosen federal jurisdiction and that it was not a good reform. It is therefore stingy to hear some who have supported this dismantling today fustiger the slowness of some relief. It is plausible to say that the 2017 reform contributed to the worsening of the consequences of the floods and that the maintenance of a number of barracks and sufficient staff in the Civil Protection could have limited the damage and possibly the number of victims. On the issue of coordination, there were the three phases and the federal phase. The National Crisis Centre has provided strategic coordination and you have created this federal support cell to assist the Walloon government. That it is necessary to create this kind of cell in the emergency is the sign that something does not work structurally. We cannot leave the impression that every time there is a major crisis, our country is overwhelmed by its heavyness and structures. It may not be the number of structures involved, it is the dilution of responsibilities within, it is the scattering of skills. Everyone is a little competent for nothing and many are not responsible for anything either. We owe it to the victims and those who are still suffering today not to be rehoused or to be rehoused, to make our country work and to learn from what has happened. In the event of a crisis, the chain of command must be clear. Not only do we not anticipate disasters, but we also suffer the consequences. This is no longer acceptable and I consider today's meeting to be only the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u27	I give the floor to the Minister for a few clarifications or additional answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the many interesting and sometimes challenging questions and, above all, for your involvement in the crisis. This exchange of views shows that not only the scale of the disaster has surprised many, but also its impact on society as a whole and the suffering of many have touched us without prior notice. I have already referred to a number of questions in my introductory statement. Other questions better lend themselves to a detailed written answer, such as the exact number of civil protection employees earlier and now. The order of magnitude of the figures I gave, in my opinion, responds to reality, but in order to avoid errors, a written answer is better. A first and the most important point for me is that people are being helped now. We must do everything we can to give them a lifeable life as quickly as possible and to get them out of misery. That is something we all have to face up to, everyone from their responsibilities and capabilities. This was also the reason why the innovative structure of that federal support cell was created. This structure has helped to get the emergency aid that was needed at that time, and in some cases still needed, to the victims as soon as possible, whether it is security and police surveillance, or the waste that had been piled up at their doorstep. I find it a difficult balance. After all, it is not a question of shifting responsibilities or shoving each other over, as journalists sometimes call it. That is really not the issue here. Of course, we have agreed on powers and responsibilities. These are also the kind of things that lead and point in this kind of crisis. This does not mean, of course, that we should not be creative, innovative and facilitating. That is how I see my role, even when it comes to powers that are primarily conferred on other governments by our state structure and the state reforms. That is also why I had intense discussions and still have with the Walloon Prime Minister in order to continue to help, and also with Catherine Delcourt, who runs the Walloon Rebuilding Commission. We have regular contact to ask where we can help, what needs to be done and how we can facilitate this. I gave the example of the government's contract for meals earlier. That really is a question that could be asked that they saw it as their task. Nevertheless, we have facilitated certain things in this area. This is a sign of our help, and there are many other points in which we help, such as sending experts or helping to identify the experts to identify the damage and help people or help them and to be able to move forward with the evaluation as quickly as possible, whether a house needs to be demolished or if it can still be repaired and renovated. This is another example of something that is not the first task or competence of the federal government. However, we have helped to facilitate and coordinate things. We absolutely must do the same. Mrs Ingels and Mrs Matz, you have asked a number of questions about gas, hot water, heating, housing. Gas, hot water, heating and accommodation are all the responsibility of the Region. It is for this reason that the Walloon government created this police station. In addition to what I have just said – which we want to facilitate the launch of markets and find solutions – the responsibility lies above all with the Walloon government and the police station. However, the federal government supports them to facilitate and take responsibility for short- and medium-term solutions, even in the long term. As an illustration of this approach, since the gas distribution network had suffered heavy damage, the Federal Support Cell put on the agenda the need to restore it. We work closely with the Walloon government, the police station and gas distributors to repair the network and look for alternatives. We cannot do this ourselves and have sometimes been astonished at the proposed agendas, when the federal government is not responsible. We contacted Fluvius to try to speed up the restoration of the gas and electricity network. I can assure you that this work is a top priority of the Walloon police station but is also followed by the Federal Support Cell in support of the police station. However, since responsibility does not fall within the federal government, a solution must be found for the costs they represent. The second point concerned the proclamation of the federal phase. Mrs Ingels, Mr Calvo and Mr Moyaers asked questions about this. When exactly was this supposed to happen? I have already explained that provincial phases were triggered on Tuesday, July 14. The Crisis Centre positioned itself in a proactive approach by contacting these governors to have a view of the equipment and personnel requirements to organize a coordination meeting, as explained at times. We did the same on the morning of Wednesday, July 15. At that time, governors indicated that there was no need for another way of coordinating the crisis, but that the provincial phases were adequate to manage it. After the opening of the provincial phase by the governor of the province of Hainaut and for all the reasons I mentioned earlier, the federal phase was finally triggered on Thursday noon. A lot can be said about the fact that the governors have triggered this message. I think it was Mr Calvo who said why there was some tension not to move towards federal coordination. But that's the information we had and it was up to us to act on the basis of that information, which we did on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. I explained what we did at those specific moments, what the tasks of each of the different entities were. A large number of your questions were again about the scaling down of the federal phase on July 26th. Mr Moyaers, Mrs Ingels, Mrs Chanson, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Boukili, Mr Thiébaut and Mr Depootere asked this question. That decision was made on the basis of the information we had on 26 July and the preparations that have been made for it. The preparations have been going on for a while. An action plan was prepared to check whether all the tasks are divided, whether there are things that fall between the seats, or whether we have thought about everything. Well, that takes preparation, doesn't it? It's been going on for a while. This was also the reason why some people suggested much earlier, a week earlier, that coordination of the crisis would be best done at provincial level. We have kept that for a while to have the certainty about the implementation of the recovery and aftercare phase. The Walloon Region had therefore set up the Commissariat and the decision was taken on 26 July. At that time, no one questioned whether the governors of all the provinces could bring that to a successful conclusion at all, whereas those provinces at that time were considered by everyone to be the most appropriate level to continue acute crisis aid. In our discussions, it is sometimes left out of the question that this has gone well in many provinces. In Luxembourg, Namur and a number of other provinces that went well. In certain provinces it was difficult, of course in the province that was hardest hit. That province needed the most attention from everyone. The question is whether a federal phase with the current powers should be maintained for a limited number of municipalities in one province. We can also talk a lot about how we would ideally see that, also on the basis of the experience of this disaster. During the federal phase there was also coordination in the provincial area, and it was said that the management was also best done at provincial level. Wasn't it better to announce the provincial phase? That was the consideration at the time. We then decided on the basis of information and frequent consultations to leave it to the provinces. When we found that this was very difficult, we accepted our responsibility because we wanted to help people where the needs were high. At the time, we did not say that we had to work strictly within the crisis structures that we have, because that was the way it was decided. But we have thought about how we can help people as effectively as possible. That's how the element of the federal support cell got there. Afterwards, we can learn a lot of lessons. Then we can see how we can embed and structure things. As I said, the national hub is a cellule d'appui fédérale. We need to install that. This is in conjunction with the tasks of the governors who also have such a coordination cell and are able to deal with the crisis multidisciplinaryly. That's what we need to think about. On 26 July 2021, I think we answered that question. If we look back on that, we can see all kinds of things, but I think we can say that we have done this in an informed and well-founded way. When afterwards it became clear that difficult activities were being developed, we switched. That is not two weeks later, as one of you said, but ten days later. After all, one must first examine what exactly is going wrong and what instrument could be an added value if one wants to do something else. I'd rather that than switch it too fast. That does not mean that no help has been given in the meantime, or that the federal aid had left there, as initially appeared in the press. A proper structure has been sought to meet the needs. This is also the answer to the first question – even the questions you asked. Today, there is this federal support unit that is integrated into the police station. We requested an evaluation, towards the end of August, of the operation of the police station and this federal support cell. The discussions still need to be conducted, but I think we can confirm that this federal support cell will continue to be present in support of the police station. We will continue with this help. If there are any questions about what we're doing today to help people, I think that's it. From the information I've received from the mayors and people on the ground, it makes a difference. We will therefore continue to work in this way, and to seek solutions, even concerning elements that fall within the competence of the Walloon Region. As I said, we obviously provided assistance during the period between the scaling-down on 26 July and the start of the federal support cell on 4 August. For example, the National Logistics Hub was still on the scene, so coordination of aid was still taking place. It is therefore certainly not the case that neither the Crisis Centre nor the Service have withdrawn from any coordination or facilitation. That is why they have taken place further. Mrs Ingels, you had a question about psychosocial aid and how this cooperation went. From the outset, the Red Cross had undertaken a task in relation to psychosocial services, including for relatives of missing persons and deceased persons. The coordination that is taking place today within the CAF, where the Red Cross is also present, ensures the continuation of this psychosocial assistance through the Urgent Social Intervention Service of the Red Cross, in collaboration with the FPS Public Health. So that is also one of the axes on the CAF's schedule, which I have just shown, where the acute aid is being given today. Meanwhile, help has been provided for psychosocial assistance, which is also financed. Where there are additional needs for psychosocial assistance, additional assistance is provided which is financially supported, in particular for the nine most affected municipalities. So there is that possibility and it is something that can be used immediately to help people who are having a hard time today. An important chapter of the questions on which many have come back is the reform of civil protection. Some confirmed that we had already decided to look at it last year, after the resolution had been adopted in Parliament. The study on reform has been launched. The cutlery was prepared before the floods. It seems obvious to me that we are looking at this with even more enthusiasm and determination because of its importance. As I said, the tenders will in principle be opened tomorrow by the parties who will help us to do so in an objective manner. We must then move forward quickly, but also try to have the reform with what we now know, including with regard to the volunteers, properly investigated so that we can make the organisation future proof. Ms. Matz asked if all the equipment and tools were sold. According to the information in my possession, the equipment present was made available to the rescue areas. If the number of Civil Protection personnel had been limited, it had to be limited to the benefit of the relief areas. Maybe we should see how it really happened. The aim was, in fact, to do so. This is not the case, but we have restructured and therefore given more importance to the relief areas. According to my information, it has been found that the emergency areas do not have a central point of contact, it may not be obvious, but it is a challenge in the organisation of civil protection and relief areas. There are two aspects of Civil Protection: the organisation, the two barracks. Mr. Demon raised the question of the usefulness of advanced positions to ensure that protection was closer to citizens and that volunteers went to barracks more quickly. The other question is what equipment we need. I think we need to ask these two questions in the analysis that we need to carry out. This is not a theme that this government has decided. But this does not mean that we must not take this challenge seriously, because it is necessary. And I agree that today's study and analysis must involve workers and civil protection officers. But it was also interesting to ask for the opinion and expertise of an external partner to carry out this analysis. The aim of this public procurement is to have a university study carried out to assess in depth the functioning of Emergency Preparedness, with the aim of drawing conclusions and implementing them. Then your questions about the numbers of Civil Protection. The framework has effectively decreased from about 500 people to 313 professional staff. In the volunteers there is a decrease of more than 600 to a little less than 200. Firstly, we need to fill in the existing staff framework. The question then is whether 313 men are sufficient to properly fill in Civilian Protection. It is too early today to analyse this. We should have, and we would have already recorded it. We do want to do so in the short term, because the report will not be delayed for months. However, we must give the necessary time to the university institution that will do so, in order to do it properly. I will be happy to discuss this with you when this is possible. Mrs Ingels, you have asked for a state of emergency plans and what we have done with them in the meantime with regard to the structure of crisis management, in particular the flood emergency plan. Mr Vandeput, Mr Moyaers and Mr Calvo also referred to this, as did Mrs Chanson and Mrs Jadin. I must not repeat that this disaster was unseen and that it had to work in very difficult conditions. If an emergency plan is to be drawn up, one must ask oneself what needs one looks at and what plans one prepares for it. The Crisis Centre has taken steps to become a multidisciplinary, interdepartmental, inter-federal and internationally oriented crisis centre. This week we signed a declaration with Luxembourg to engage in closer cooperation. We need to look at the materials, tools and means we need, also at the international level. This mission of the Crisis Centre must be pursued in order to deal with future crises, which will become increasingly complex and multifaceted. As he did for the Terro after the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, the business continuity plan (BCP) can help us to provide a quick response from staff in the event of a crisis. This PCO was activated during the floods, as was the case this year for other crises such as the covid-19, the incident on the Proximus network, the Jürgen Conings case, the securing of major events such as the last two NATO summits. In particular, with regard to emergency planning and crisis management at the national level, the lessons to be learned from this crisis will be taken into account in the codification project, which is already being launched by the Crisis Centre. Indeed, as I have already been able to explain in the first part of my speech, the Crisis Centre wants to develop this codification project taking into account the lessons that can be drawn from recent incidents, but also from all the legal work that has already been done. There is already a Green Paper. There are therefore already answers to several questions. As far as the Crisis Centre is concerned, it should be noted that a health crisis is not the same as a disaster such as that experienced in July, nor is it a cyberattack. Things are quite different in terms of resources, implementation of volunteerism, etc. We must therefore continue to work. It is essential that national emergencies be managed with the same approach and seriousness. This is in any case our goal, as is that of the Crisis Centre. At this point, I cannot provide you with a specific date for the development of this contingency plan. But I can confirm that the Crisis Centre is looking into the matter now. There was also talk of D5, communication by local authorities. At this level, things need to be improved. However, it must be noted that, in this case, the Crisis Centre has taken on the responsibility of strengthening the local authorities for communication through its support team. I've already talked about flood contingency plans. It's already done. We have already identified some risks and actions to take. This preparatory work has already been done, but it remains crucial that the relevant actors take the necessary preventive measures in order to avoid them; at the very least to minimize the consequences of such weather on our society in the future. Here, we return to the powers of the Regions. I think we need to talk about it. I do not know how Parliament wants to do this, but the point I would like to make is that we have already identified risks, but that now they must be translated into action, not only at the federal level, but also at the level of prevention. As far as its evaluation is concerned, I fully agree that, as Mrs Matz rightly pointed out, our focus should primarily be on the people in the disaster area, who are still victims and do not find solutions. On the other hand, it is probably also expected that we will not waste time and prepare things for the future. Mrs Ingels, that is exactly the evaluation you asked for. We'll set up the learning board. As I indicated earlier, we will first of all objectify this and involve an external partner in the dossier. Despite the fact that people in the field know very well where the bottlenecks lie, it is good that objective standards are applied by external persons. However, it is also a good thing that we do so with all the services involved, with the representatives of the governors, of the municipalities and of the emergency services. It is also good to involve Parliament in the matter. I shall, of course, refer to Parliament's work on this matter. We should probably discuss later on the precise way in which today's debate will continue. After all, I agree with you that the current debate should not be the end. For me, it would be a good thing if the learning committee could draw up a first interim report by the end of 2021. We must, of course, move forward as quickly as possible, but we must not rush ahead. Afterwards, in 2022, we will be able to see how we can take over the interim report and see if any questions we want answered in the report will be answered. As far as BE-Alert is concerned, I have asked the question on a regular basis how we can use this better and whether we cannot reach people very quickly. You probably know that the federal government is providing for this system today and that local authorities or other than local authorities can make use of it. Mrs Matz, I think you said that a lot of different messages had been sent by BE-Alert. Someone – Mrs. Song it seems to me – talked about not very consistent messages. The reason for this is that mayors and governors can decide themselves to send their messages via the BE-Alert platform. This may need to be assessed. People need to read it and if it's not consistent, it doesn't help the level of penetration that we want to achieve with these BE-Alert messages. All over Belgium there are a small million subscribers to BE-Alert. Compared to the target audience, that's not very much. We also see in other matters that something like this needs some communication. Although one does not have to be a subscriber to get a message, sometimes one chooses to only communicate to subscribers and not to the entire population. We need to be able to do better, apart from the fact that the mayors need to be even more focused on how they can use the system and how they can achieve results. The National Crisis Centre discussed this communication during the federal phase, but also before. As a result, more than 100 campaigns have been launched. 37 municipalities have sent together 58 campaigns aimed at alerting and supporting the population and providing the right information. The content and legibility of the messages are probably still to be seen, but it is certainly not the case that the instrument remained unused to warn citizens. We may need to further optimize this in the training that the Crisis Centre is already giving to local authorities today. We must also listen carefully to how this can be dealt with. It may operate in two directions and shall operate in two directions. Of course, the public must be made permanently aware of the fact that they can register for the service. There may be even better ways to deal with that. We must also continue to use modern technology. That is one of the points I mentioned at the start of this committee. Mr Hedebouw made a point about the distribution of communication between the RMI and EFAS. He was talking about the drops in the air and the drops on the ground. That is perhaps something to be said about. I have also informed myself of this. Apparently the division used to be quite strict and it was not very encouraged to take over one task or the other. That's a situational axis. I have already said that the information of the RMI is being sent very quickly by the Crisis Centre to all kinds of partners, including local authorities, the regions, but also the emergency services. The RMI does that. We can see whether we need an evaluation on this. The boards will then be responsible for the hydrological information and the monitoring of what needs to be done with that information. The interfederal element of the Crisis Centre can also contribute to bringing this together. Mr Vandenput wondered why we were notified so late of the floods. That is the responsibility of the regions. They watch the watercourses. There is therefore a difference between the navigable and the unsailable watercourses. That's not at the Crisis Center today. It's spread out. I'm not saying it should stay that way, but that's the situation today. For the record, the information from EFAS never got to us. We only learned on 22 July 2021 that this information had already been sent on 10 July. We didn't get this until July 22, but we went looking for certain information ourselves. After all, it appeared in the press that certain barrages were opened and others were not and who could and had to make decisions. That whole story. That's why we went looking ourselves and found out on July 22 that the information had been sent before. But that's not jurisdiction of the Crisis Center. The Crisis Centre does not have the experts to analyse the information of the EFAS and give it further follow-up. Someone just suggested that the chain of command should be reviewed. We can all think about that, but of course that is not the way it works today. Mrs Depraetere, you had an extensive intervention on the Red Cross. I indicated earlier that we should review this. Should we set up an official, formal ad hoc volunteer structure somewhere in Belgium? There are volunteers in Civil Protection, including the fire department. However, we mean the volunteers who want to help at the time of an incident. Today, that was coordinated by the Red Cross. They have done so before, as witnessed the platform that the Red Cross had set up for the many volunteers who joined the Walloon Red Cross. It already exists. However, we certainly need to analyse and even audit whether this can be done properly. After all, it is an independent organisation. I have no doubt whatsoever of the good intentions and the speed with which they have responded and the good will. Today, however, we find that there is sometimes an effective mismatch between the existing offer and the follow-up on the ground. For the volunteers who immediately wanted to go into the first emotion of the images it was difficult because we wanted a safe circumstance. There were dangerous products in all that garbage. The right equipment had to be provided, which the Red Cross didn't have. They had to use the materials or containers, trucks and the like of other organisations. It seems to me a very fair question to consider whether the way in which it is organised today has actually been adapted. There are many stories, the context of which is not always clear on the basis of the newspaper article or the information communicated. However, I can confirm that the Red Cross has helped to set up housing, the distribution of blankets, auxiliary equipment, the transport of older people, and the distribution of food and water. From July 22, the Red Cross delivered warm meals. Before that, it worked with the Event Confederation, which took care of the food trucks. The point about communication must certainly be taken with us. How come the message didn't get to everyone? Once again, this is about the mismatch between formal structures and the voluntary organisation. Because it was found that the food trucks may not have been the appropriate answer for a varied and healthy diet and there were potentially more optimal solutions, including budgetary ones, we quickly launched the assignment to buy meals from a private partner. Mr Flahaut, you asked if it was normal for a private partner to provide this food. The fact is, there are few kitchens in the Defense. We weren't equipped to serve hot meals to the victims. Defence has helped and continues to do so by delivering these hot meals today to the victims. There are kitchens in the Defense, but not enough to deal with the scale of this disaster. This is the result of a choice: in this case, that of no longer having a kitchen in the Defense. We had to find a solution and that's what we did. In the structure and working methods that exist today, in the first days, the Crisis Centre has tried to bring together and coordinate all its partners, the Red Cross, the Food Banks, the provincial crisis cells. When the federal support cell was set up, the Red Cross was integrated into it to ensure, among other things, that there were as few kinks as possible, especially as regards psychosocial aid. From the feedback we get from the site, we conclude that this also works a lot better since the support cell exists. However, the more fundamental questions to be asked remain. As I said, the Food Coordination Center was involved, among other things, in defense, alongside the Red Cross, which distributed the meals, and Delimeal, who was appointed to deliver the meals. This has helped to get a global view of the situation and to be able to deal with things in a coordinated manner. As far as the continuation of the work of this committee is concerned, I should like to see what Parliament thinks is right. I'm at your disposal. The aim is to present the results of the learning committee and to discuss a number of issues with you at a later date, such as the analysis of Civil Protection. I leave it to you to decide how to proceed in concrete terms with the follow-up of all the thoughts we have exchanged. For the help we are giving today, we really need to continue to support with the CAF and keep each other alert for what is needed on the ground. After all, that evolves over time. Mr Depoostere, I have no problem coming back to this committee with other ministers, or to another. Of course you can. Mrs Jadin, you mentioned the fact that requests for reinforcement had been refused. According to my information, there was no refusal. Sometimes there are rumours or words that are taken out of context. The press talked about it at some point. There may have been a lack of effectiveness in coordination but I have not had confirmation of a refusal. The housing is also an important point. One member remarked earlier that there are still people living in a tent. Here too, we have called for it from the CAF, because of course it is also a responsibility of the Walloon government. Sometimes people don't like to move. That is a completely justified consideration. People like to stay close to where they live because of the school of the children, the proximity to medical care and a lot of other emotional and personal considerations. Sometimes, as we have heard, housing has been offered, but people did not always want to go into it. That's also a trade-off. Many people prefer to stay in their humid homes rather than move. We may have to draw people's attention to the dangers and risks in this area. This entails risks to the health of children. I think we really need to keep the kids from getting sick. But the problem is that there are people who don't want to find housing much further than the center of the city or the municipality they know, because they don't want to move. I realise that I may have overlooked a number of details, but I have no doubt that we will discuss this later. I think I can conclude my speech more or less. I can conclude by saying that, even after today, it remains very close to my heart to be able to continue to help people on the ground. The water's gone. Here and there we see again debris on the streets of people who after all these weeks find the courage to empty their home or business or whatever. We must continue to work on this. It is a stress test for all crisis management, at all levels of policy. I think we can say that. Learning no lessons from this stress test would be irresponsible. I believe that we absolutely must do so. We may differ occasionally on what the solution would be, not only with Parliament, but also with each other, but we must take it into our hands. We owe this to the victims, as we said earlier. The initiatives we have already taken are very concrete: the learning committee and the launch of a framework for an external partner, and the follow-up to the reform of civil protection. A number of other points of improvement, which I mentioned earlier. I'd repeat myself too much if I recounted it. It seems obvious to me that we will be able to discuss the questions and points of improvement, and possibly things that we will find out or determine in the future, or to make an assessment, in this committee at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your additional explanations and answers. I shall give the last word to the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for all the additional explanations. I will not go back on all aspects. I will submit a number of questions to which I have not received an answer in writing. I understand they were too much about details. I understand that you say that the learning committee, and also a committee of inquiry, would not produce immediate results. I'd like to ask if we can't work with a list of quick wins? What I mean by that is this. A number of issues, such as BE-Alert and others, can be improved in the short term. Imagine if we had another heavy flood in the autumn. Then it would be very unfortunate to have to wait for results from exercises that take more time. I understand. So I'd like to ask, is there going to be a learning committee, or a committee of inquiry, or whatever, or can we work on a list of quick wins? I believe that there is enough dust and that everyone understands it. I'd like to make a plea for that. Mr Calvo, I just wanted to respond to what you said about the lack of courage about federal coordination. All that concerns crisis management and emergency planning is a federal line, especially the mayor, the governor and the minister. The only person who can announce a federal phase is the Home Secretary. Mrs Verlinden also did so on 15 July 2021. Despite the opposition of the governors, the Minister said that the situation was too serious and that we would therefore move to a federal phase. The governor also does that with his federal hat on. So I do not quite understand your argument about being reluctant to coordinate some federalism. When the governor takes action on crisis management, he does so as a federal extension of the minister in the provinces. So I don't see very well what this has to do with shyness. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's I insist that the federal phase is too quickly abandoned in my eyes. I do not think it is a good argument that this would have happened at the request of the governors or the Walloon Region. You say that there were several other arguments, which are well-conversed. However, I would like to point out one thing, namely the renewed website of the Crisis Centre. That is a very good website with many different aspects. I would simply like to point out the inconsistency that exists between the current legislation and how this is happening in practice today. There's a chapter on the recovery phase, the post-care period. It says: "The mayor, governor or minister will ensure that we return to the normal situation as soon as possible." A number of examples will then be given, in particular support for victims in the tax, legal and psychosocial fields, rehabilitation work on the streets and infrastructure, re-launching economic activities, follow-up of judicial investigations. I see that there is mayor, governor and minister there, while we are now saying that the recovery is actually for the Regions. So there is something wrong with what is regulated today and translates into public websites, and how we apply it today. I believe that there is also a piece of confusion about who is responsible for what. In fact, it is clear who is responsible for what, but in practice we find ourselves in a situation where too many people are competent, or just too little. I don't know. I just want to point out certain inconsistencies that exist today. I know that codification is ongoing and that it is a great work, but we will have to take some steps. For the moment, I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u31	I thank the minister for her many contributions and the information that answered some of my questions. Like my colleague, however, I will still table written questions to obtain more detailed and quantified answers, as suggested by the minister. The follow-up of our work remains an important question, as well as the way in which we will decide to function. Mrs Verlinden and other ministers will have to be heard again. It will also be necessary to have access to certain documents and to meet people in the field who, having experienced things, surely have elements to bring. I am thinking in particular of Civil Protection, which should be listened to again. This would make it possible to make changes that go beyond the already very concrete elements of the motion for a resolution already voted on. The Minister also referred to a phase of the Learning Committee. If this seems interesting, it seems interesting to me to have more information on its functioning and mission. Parliamentarians must be able to structure themselves on the rest of the work in order to be effective. The Walloon Parliament has given itself three months to succeed. It's a reasonable deadline. I would not like this federal commission to enter into specific commissions or commissions of inquiry that would last a year and a half, that is not the point. We can also be effective and have specific objectives. My colleague was talking about quick wins, it seems to me a good red thread for our future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and the comprehensive answer. A number of colleagues have called for a new committee to be set up quickly. They may not have been able to fully follow that comprehensive answer. You have indicated that this is only a start. Through your explanatory statement, you have indicated your desire to strengthen the articulation and cooperation between the learning committee and parliamentary work. That's a very good idea. It would be a first that the evaluation would be carried out in the womb of the executive and the exercise by the legislature and that they would be properly coordinated in advance. There is an assignment for you, but perhaps also for the Prime Minister and the President of the Chamber, to streamline the work and to see how we can deal with it as quickly as possible. Then there is Mrs Ingels' suggestion to initiate some quick wins in the short term, despite a possible extensive exercise. That's a good suggestion, which you might be able to use. I insist that there is a strong institutional component. I am not surprised that Mrs Ingels protested at this. Perhaps there is a role there for the committee with which we have just started in Chamber and Senate, where we have identified a number of themes. Perhaps the institutional situation there needs to be addressed. I believe that there is a great deal of the solution. Mrs Ingels, I have the feeling that your group colleagues are the least affected by federal weakness. For you it has to work on site and doesn't matter the color of the cat, as long as she catches mice. I have rarely heard such a fervent plea from an N-VA colleague for a strong federal government. Mr Verherstraeten is ready to sell you a CD&V membership card. Madam Secretary of State has been very diplomatic, but stated in her explanatory statement that there was a strong pressure not to start the federal phase too soon and to close it in good time. That's exactly what I'm talking about. This cannot be seen in isolation from a kind of pensée unique which certainly prevails in Flanders, but which also exists on the other side of the language border. One cannot separate that from the idea that too many politicians have, a very human reflex: I want control! For some things one cannot have them at local or partial level, but should have that control and direction at the federal level. That's matter to bite us in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u33	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for all these additional clarifications. We will certainly have other more technical questions, with requests for figures; but like others, I think it is smarter to submit them in writing so as not to unnecessarily prolong our debates. Nevertheless, I would stress the need for a rapid assessment of this civil protection reform. I insist that the results of the study that you will order come to us as soon as possible, and not in six months. Time passes very quickly at the political level. I think that this is really one of the key points of the problem we are dealing with today: the future of Civil Protection. I really insist that we get results as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u34	As we continue to share time, I would just like to say, Madam Minister: thank you. Indeed, during a previous exchange, I told you that it was a famous construction site, you told me that it was a famous construction site, this Civil Protection. I believe that what is dangerous, and what is going to happen, is conservatism, which will have to be overcome, with multiple compartmentalizations. What we must be wary of is technical studies and expert studies. They must give way to pragmatism, which usually involves staff. It is necessary to be original and not to reconstruct a gas plant. I believe that Civil Protection has lived. We have to give him some form of energy, but not all alone. You mustn't leave her alone. You said something earlier about the Red Cross. I do believe that there is a real need for an audit of the Red Cross, its current functioning, its funding methods and responsibilities. It's a bit of a body that continues to work: you don't always know how. An audit is therefore required. I misunderstood: which firm was the one that got the food?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u35	Delimeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u36	All right. Thank you. We will probably see each other again, even if I am only an alternate in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u37	Thank you, minister, for trying to answer the many questions we had this afternoon. Like my predecessors, I also think we will have a lot of work and questioning in the coming weeks and months that will require answers. Above all, I believe that it is necessary to look at the most flexible possible solutions to provide effective assistance to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u38	Madam Minister, I recall that you said: 'It is so important what we will do to help the people, even if they are regional powers. We will help if we can." I think that is very important. As far as civil protection is concerned, I am very pleased that you wish to examine how you can bring that service close to the people if necessary. There are 66% less volunteers, that can count. On the one hand there are far too many and on the other hand we never know what extra we could have done, should we have had them. Involve the learning committee and Parliament in this. Thank you. We must find a modus vivendi, but it is an outstretched hand that Parliament must certainly accept. Finally, I would ask you to put your shoulders under BE-Alert. If there are such crises, this must become one of the essential means of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u39	Mr President, thank you. After five hours of exchanges, a lot of information came out. I am still hungry, and that is what is annoying with this kind of committee, which is not a specific committee such as a committee of inquiry for decision-making and how to respond to problems. There's no decision! I always wonder how we can meet the pressing needs of the field, what initiatives to take and what steps to implement. With regard to relief zones and civil protection, we have all pointed out what is wrong, but I have not heard a confession: yes, there is a shortage of personnel and we are going to commit; or in relation to the lack of funding, we will finance relief zones and civil protection; yes, we must review the reform of relief zones... Because we can talk about evaluation, but as I said, this is done on the ground and the workers did it even before the floods: they had reacted to this reform to say that it did not correspond to their work. It seems to me that the evaluation is now being carried out and that action must therefore be taken. What to change on our approach? On the issue of barracks, we are observing the failure of this reform! Will we not decide to reopen barracks, to put in staff, means, tools? That's what we missed here! After five hours of discussion, no decision was made! As regards the flow of information and the way it has circulated, we are in the same pattern: it is either the governor or such or such! We have eleven million inhabitants, and I think we have the highest ratio of politicians in the world, three times as many ministers – Regions, Communities and Federal – and in the end nothing works. In conclusion, we come here to note the failure of the State and that of our political organization. I'm still on my hunger. I finish this committee as I started: with questions and no concrete measures to respond to the failures and failure of our response to this disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u40	Mr President, I am always glad to come after the PTB. Then I can make the difference between communism and liberalism. Madam Minister, EFAS is, as you have explained, a regional competence. You had to go to federal level as a detective to find out what was right. In my opinion, this is a typical example of how and where valuable information is best not to come in times of crisis and of the fact that it would be better to raise it to a level. You are responsible for security and institutional reform. You're an intelligent woman. I am sure that you will include these issues in your institutional competence and propose improvements to our country's new architecture with one goal in mind, namely to continue to ensure security for our people in a faster, more efficient way. We will, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I know that this is not obvious, as it concerns a great many themes and many levels at the same time. However, it is appreciated that you do not avoid the questions and that you also take into account the criticisms that have been made here. You have also mentioned a number of possibilities, such as audits. That's definitely important. For our group, however, the essence is elsewhere. We have not received any answers to a number of questions. There's no other way. There are also many other questions to ask. It is therefore indeed up to Parliament to organise itself further. I am particularly looking forward to the way in which we can take things into our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u42	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answers, although it remains very incomplete, as you yourself say, concerning a series of things that we have spoken about collectively. On the subject of civil protection reform, I would like to say that there is still time not to open offers and not to conclude a contract tomorrow. Indeed, this would be a waste of time and energy, while the administration, the Civil Security DG, is able to advise us, to advise you usefully on the implementation of a reform. I don't see the point of wasting money on something that needs to be changed. We feel like there's a problem. With this concern, which is ours now, more must be done. With regard to the equipment, you suggested to the relief areas that they should say what they needed. This information came from the report on the evaluation of civil protection reform, which we held here in the Committee on Internal Affairs. That is where the resolution that we drafted came from. There are many elements in this report that can also help reform. You'd make a mistake in charging a field office for this mission, it would cost a lot of money, it would take a lot of time. I have heard colleagues say that it should not take six months. In my opinion, this is at least the time it will take. It would be a shame to miss this opportunity to reform as quickly as possible, not waiting years for this reform to be implemented. We will talk again about coordination, as we have not received an answer to our question as to why the Royal Emergency Planning Order has not been activated. We also tabled written questions yesterday and the day before yesterday on budgets and staffing. This is a first act. We do not want to drag things from committee to committee, drowning you with our questions. The priority is elsewhere. You say that you continue to coordinate and that you are in regular contact with the Commissioner for Reconstruction. That remains the priority. As many people as possible must be equipped with water and heating as quickly as possible. If we make things last here, you won't have enough time to get to it. You must provide the necessary resources through the services that are under your direction. We think your priority should be that one. Of course, there will be a need for responses on coordination, emergency preparedness, evacuation, and provincial jurisdiction. Governors act as deconcentrated organs and are under your responsibility. While these issues are important, the most important for those affected is to have the means to live a dignified life. Some families were embarrassed to send their children to school today because they did not have proper clothing for them. We put on the clothes once and then throw them away because they're soaked. We equip some victims with divans and we can throw them three days after because the cushions are soaked. We will not harass you but we would like to continue the evaluation work. Above all, all forces must be put in the battle: a battle against time, against the coming winter and for the dignity of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic565x.u43	I think we have had a thorough exchange of views. Everyone has been able to express their point of view. I thank the Minister for her presence and for the very thorough explanation.
