ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u1	Today there are a number of topical debates and a whole series of questions on the agenda. The first topical debate deals with Assadi. The first questioner, Mrs Samyn, is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u2	Minister, this Sunday, January 7, Ali Khamenei stated that Iran would only return to its Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) commitments if the United States lifts the sanctions completely, to which the President replied that this was not the case as long as the Iranian regime continued to enrich uranium. If Joe Biden's arrival at the White House suggested the possibility of a relaxation in Iran-US relations, we must note, after a few weeks, that we are far from it at the moment, even though progress has been made in the desire to re-engage in dialogue. It is in what is still and still a context of tension that, on 4 February, the decision of the Antwerp court to sentence an Iranian diplomat to 20 years in prison, and his three accomplices to sentences ranging from 15 to 18 years for having designed and programmed an attack project that should have taken place in 2018 in Villepinte, in the Paris region. It aimed at a meeting of the National Council of Iranian Resistance. The Islamic Republic, through the voice of the spokesman for its diplomacy, quickly condemned this decision. We are obviously proud to live in a state with an independent judiciary, where such acts do not go unpunished. Nevertheless, like others, I am concerned about the possible consequences of the verdict on the European Union's relations with Iran and its efforts to return to the terms of the 2015 Vienna Agreement. Furthermore, we are concerned about the potential effects on Mr DJalali's fate, which we have already discussed at length in committee and whose execution is currently suspended. What is your analysis of the impact of this judgment on bilateral relations with Iran? Should we expect this to create additional difficulties in the ongoing discussions at European level with this country? Have you been able to discuss this with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy? What information do you have about the current situation of Mr Reza Jalali?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u3	You are asking about the consequences of the judgment against the Iranian diplomat recently sentenced to 20 years in prison in Antwerp, including Mr Djalali's situation. As Foreign Minister, I must, of course, fully respect the independence of the court and the separation of powers. I will therefore not rule on the verdict and on the penalties that the Antwerp Court ruled at the beginning of February. Moreover, the judgment can still be appealed against. In a public and diplomatic response, the Iranian authorities rejected the verdict based on the analysis that the diplomat concerned would have received immunity at the time of his arrest in Germany. However, both the Belgian courts, including the Court of Cassation, and the German authorities agreed that the diplomat could not at that time invoke diplomatic immunity and could therefore be lawfully arrested and prosecuted. With regard to the diplomatic consequences of this condemnation on our bilateral relations, I believe that we must continue discussions with the Iranian authorities on the important issues currently on the table, such as the nuclear agreement, Iran's regional policy – including its ballistic missile programme – or the human rights situation in the country. Belgium will continue to reiterate its clear positions on all these issues in its bilateral contacts with Iran. As the Minister of Justice has already explained in the media, Dr. Ahmadreza Djalali's situation is distinct from the trial against Iranian diplomats. For Belgium, these are two separate dossiers which have no connection with each other. This, of course, does not detract from our strong concern about the fate of Dr. Djalali, especially since worrying reports of his health and fate circulated at the end of last year, with his placement in solitary confinement. Belgium will continue to make clear to the Iranian authorities at all levels its opposition in principle to the death penalty and its application in the case of Mr. Djalali. I had the opportunity to stress this personally in my interview with my Iranian counterpart Zarif three months ago. Therefore, my services and I will continue to monitor the situation very closely. On the possible consequences of the condemnation of the Iranian diplomat for the security of Belgian interests in Iran and the region, I cannot give any concrete information for obvious reasons, but I can assure you that this will also be followed closely, both in Brussels and in Iran and in the region. There are also European sanctions against Mr Assadi. Those sanctions are regularly reviewed and the verdict will, of course, be an element in the justification of those sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u4	Minister, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. The Iranian issue is an issue that will occupy European diplomacy intensively in the coming weeks and months, if not yet. Iran is a complicated country that poses a whole series of problems in a region that is itself extremely complex. We must pay close attention to our priorities, and I believe that the top priority is to re-establish the JCPoA framework and ensure that everyone returns to the commitments made in 2015 under this agreement. It will therefore be necessary to take great care to ensure that peripheral cases, such as that of the judgment of the Antwerp Court, disturb as little as possible the progress towards this objective. Indeed, I firmly believe that this agreement is of a nature, not to stabilize the region because it is too ambitious a goal, but, in any case, to restore a series of balances conducive to a form of pacification in an area that is – I repeat – extremely complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u6	Madam Minister, I agree with the other speakers. It is indeed a very difficult country in terms of diplomatic relations. Firstly, it is an absolute priority, not only for the European Union but also for the United States, to identify future relations with Iran, which, of course, also has an impact on the European Union's relations with Iran in the framework of the JCPOA. It will be clear in the coming year which direction the United States will take. Secondly, it is good that our diplomacy distinguishes between the file on Assadi and that on Djalali and that, as in countries like the United States, no prisoners were exchanged. After all, this exchange confirms the way Iran deals with suspects, who pick them up and bring them to justice. We must not facilitate or encourage this by creating an exchange. Diplomacy has acted in a good way in this respect. However, we must keep a close eye on the situation and review our attitude every week, inter alia, within the framework of European sanctions and JCPOA. It is a very important dossier for our diplomacy in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. In our rule of law, the separation of powers is fundamental and a judgment in Belgium in a case of terrorism should not have consequences for a European national detained in Iran in any other case, or indeed on matters as important as that of Iran's nuclear programme. I call on you to maintain the pressure with your European counterparts to obtain the release as soon as possible of Ahmad Reza Djalali, who has been detained for far too long by the Iranian regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u8	Madam Secretary, this question dates back to January. From Israel came the disturbing news that tenders had been written out for settlements in South Jerusalem. A red line is crossed. At international level, it has always been said that this is one of the things that we absolutely cannot accept and we must condemn. In this way East Jerusalem is cut off from Bethlehem. The European Union immediately condemned those tender and settlements in places such as the West Bank and stated that Israel should immediately stop the tenders in Givat Hamatos because they are against international law and undermine the prospects of the two-state solution, which we are all in favour of. In our coalition agreement, too, it was very clear that if such measures were taken, we should look for a significant group of like-minded states to devise proportionate counter-measures in the event of an Israeli annexation of Palestinian territory and play a leading role in it. Madam Secretary, how did our country react to this? In what way is there consultation with other countries of the European Union in order to revive counter-measures against annexation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u9	Madam Secretary, in April 2020 the city council of Jerusalem approved the East Jerusalem City Centre Master Protect. This urbanization project takes up 700,000 square meters of largely Palestinian land in East Jerusalem. On 23 January 2021 hundreds of Palestinian owners of houses received (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u10	Mr De Vuyst, your connection went down for a while, but please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u11	The Palestinian character of East Jerusalem was severely affected by this and the two-state solution is further made impossible. Since the conclusion of the "Deal of the Century" by the US and Israel, the Israeli occupying forces have announced and begun an unprecedented new colonisation of occupied Palestinian territories, including in the illegally annexed East Jerusalem, which is a new manifestation. The government agreement states that "The government will work on a list of effective and proportionate counter-measures in the event of an Israeli annexation of Palestinian territory and the possible and timely recognition of the Palestinian State at multilateral and EU level, or where appropriate with a significant group of like-minded States." What steps has the Minister taken or will it take to make it clear to the Israeli occupying forces that Belgium does not accept these new crimes? What impact will the government have on our diplomatic and economic relations with Israel? What will the government do to achieve the establishment and implementation of the announced list of countermeasures against annexation, at multilateral or European level? Will the government now finally recognise the Palestinian State, or will it wait until the two-state solution is completely made impossible? Madam President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I have the same questions as the previous speaker, so I will be brief. I will draw attention to one specific aspect. (...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u14	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, some colleagues have already addressed some of the characteristics of the occupation, notably by speaking of East Jerusalem and new colony permits. Unfortunately, the reality is such that, every month, we could ask you about different aspects of a decades-old domination. For my part, I wanted to focus on the general situation in the Jordan Valley. In recent weeks, the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure by the Israeli army has increased. The village of Humsa Al Bqaia, north of the valley, has just been mentioned, as it has been really harassed for several months. On 22 February, the Israeli army entered for the fifth time, destroying, ruining or confiscating 30 tents and animal shelters. The Israeli occupying forces have also confiscated reservoirs, which represent – in this arid region – the only possibility of obtaining water for the Palestinians. The case of this village is not isolated. In 2020, many Israeli NGOs denounced the harassment and increase in destruction in the Jordan Valley and, more generally, in Palestinian villages – Bedouin or not. I cannot be blamed for being a strong supporter of the World Bank, but the World Bank itself considered in a 2017 report that the Jordan Valley would become a fundamental area on the assumption of an independent Palestinian state. This is a strategic region because of its fertility. I would like to return to the particularly cynical strategy used by the Israeli army in the destruction of these villages. It thus confiscates several grounds for military training, claiming to want to protect the Palestinian population from these firing zones, while the Palestinian population lived there and cultivated various products there. This grappling of the Jordan Valley has been denounced for weeks, or even years, by Israeli NGOs such as Kerem Navot or B的tselem. A few weeks away from the new Israeli elections, Palestinians are once again hostage to disgusting electoral strategies and see their hopes for a just and lasting peace eroded, as has unfortunately been the case for decades. Minister, annexation announced by Trump and Netanyahu is well underway. Even if it's not official, it's going well. At what point will Belgium recognise that we are in the context of an annexation, despite the fact that it is not official? Does the European Union, whose projects in Palestine are regularly destroyed, provide for sanctions requiring reimbursement of destroyed property? What are you planning to improve the policy of differentiation, as provided for in the government agreement, in order to prevent products from these illegal colonies from being found in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u15	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I have three questions, but I am not going to do a full reading of them in order not to overburden the work of the committee. I will try to address these three rather different points in a synthetic way. The first concerns the organization of elections in Palestine. It is known that on 9 February, an agreement was reached between Fatah and Hamas for the holding of parliamentary and presidential elections in May and July. It is also known that the Israeli authorities are reluctant to see these elections held in East Jerusalem. The Palestinians rely heavily on the European Union to put pressure on Israel to allow these elections to be held in this highly strategic territory. How does our country stand against these Palestinian demands, which are still informal at this stage? Do you intend to raise this issue in our bilateral relations with Israel? Has this been discussed at European level and has a common European position already been reached? I shall refer very briefly to my second question, since my colleague Mr Moutquin has given a fairly thorough description of the situation in the Jordan Valley. I would just like to add to all that he said that with the exception of 2016, the year just passed was the year that saw the largest number of demolitions of buildings since 2009 and the beginning of their census by the European Union, with 849 demolitions of Palestinian structures, of which 175 were in East Jerusalem. In the case of projects financed in whole or in part by the European Union, 73 of them were destroyed in the first 10 months of 2020. These figures come from the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. My questions are obvious: what steps will we take with regard to these destructions? Are compensation sought? With regard to the blockade of Gaza and its impact on access to health care, one case made quite a lot of mention of it: that of Tahani al-Rifi, a 34-year-old woman who traveled every month to a hospital in Hebron to follow iodine radiotherapy, a method that was not available in Gaza. Currently, the crossing points are closed by the Hebrew state. It is therefore no longer possible for him to do so. His last session dates back to August. I have already mentioned the deeply intolerable nature (the word is weak) of the blockade. There are many examples comparable to that of this lady. Does Belgium intend to take initiatives at bilateral and European level to ensure access to Israeli medicine for the people of Gaza, particularly in times of co-vidation. I will not recall the difference in treatment between populations regarding access to the vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u16	Thank you for all the questions on this subject. In the preamble, I would like to reiterate the importance Belgium attaches to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This resolution of the conflict must be addressed through a process negotiated on the basis of agreed parameters of international law, relevant Security Council resolutions. The two-State solution based on the 1967 line with Jerusalem as the capital of those two States remains to date the only just and equitable solution that takes into account the legitimate aspirations of both sides and that can contribute to the establishment of a just and lasting comprehensive peace. Belgium, within the EU and as an active member of the International Community, intends to make a positive contribution to achieving this objective. The corollary of our commitment to the two-State solution is to preserve its feasibility and viability pending a credible negotiating process. We therefore denounce any unilateral act by the parties that could undermine the two-State solution. In the light of developments on the ground, I therefore share your deep concern about the active continuation of the settlement policy in East Jerusalem, in the immediate vicinity of the city of Jerusalem and in zone C. Colonisation is not only a violation of international law, but also, in these sensitive areas, a threat to the viability and territorial continuity of the future Palestinian state, which we would like to see established. Belgium clearly condemns colonisation policies and related measures, including the destruction which has increased significantly in recent months. I will come back to the question of destruction later. Belgium has not continued to watch for continued colonisation. We have communicated publicly and on several occasions on the issue and have also used diplomatic channels to send messages to the Israeli authorities, including through the Israeli ambassador in Brussels, during interventions in New York on the margins of the Security Council meetings and following various steps taken by our embassy in Tel Aviv in consultation with several European partners at the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The most recent demarche by our embassy in Tel Aviv took place on January 18th. We must continue our diplomatic efforts, both with regard to Israel and with regard to our American counterparts. The change in government in Washington is a hope, now that the Foreign Minister has clearly expressed his support for the two-state solution. At the moment, it seems to us that it is too early to draw any concrete or major conclusions here. The European Union must raise awareness and encourage the United States to put all their weight into maintaining the feasibility of the two-state solution. That is why we encouraged the European Union Special Representative for the Middle East Peace Process, Mrs Susanna Terstal, to continue her talks with the United States, particularly in the context of the Quartet meetings. Beyond these diplomatic efforts, the European Union and its Member States also have other means. I refer here to the differentiation in our relationship with Israel and its 1967 boundaries and settlements in the occupied territories of the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan, which is the direct consequence of the illegality of colonization, under international law. This differentiation is a legal obligation for the European Union and all its Member States. In addition, it constitutes an explicit commitment in the government agreement. We are working with European partners like-minded (similar views). Last July, in order to gain a more complete view of the levers available to the European Union in its relations with Israel, my predecessor and nine of its European counterparts reminded High Representative Borrell of his commitment of 15 May 2020 to work on an option paper. The international community's warnings against annexation plans and subsequent standardization agreements with several Arab countries led to their suspension. I note that we have not yet received this paper option, but I am convinced that our action has nevertheless helped to create a deterrent effect at that time. However, there is still a need for further reflection within the European Union. Moreover, discussions with like-minded partners are continuing in this direction. Let me now turn to the question of destruction. As I mentioned earlier, Belgium has contributed significantly to putting this issue at the top of the European political agenda and being discussed in the Security Council during the 2019-2020 mandate. Together with my colleague in development cooperation, I have had the opportunity to express my deep concern about the increasing number of destructions, particularly in sensitive areas in zone C but also in East Jerusalem. As a donor of the West Bank Protection Consortium, Belgium, together with its European partner in the Consortium, is directly involved in the events and has also responded to our country. I can therefore assure you that Belgian diplomacy continues its efforts and organises an action around the following lines of action. A first line of action is a concrete presence on the ground as a witness to our commitment and our solidarity with the communities affected by the destruction. In this spirit, our diplomats in Jerusalem have visited Umsa Al Bakkaia against the background of the Israeli army's obstruction of humanitarian aid to the Bedouin community. A second line of action includes requests to the Israeli authority by means of diplomatic demarches and letters in which we call on our interlocutors to put an end to all destruction and confiscation of humanitarian structures and to return them unconditionally and as soon as possible in their original place to the persons for whom they were intended. If this is not possible, we are asking for compensation. These requests, which have so far been ineffective, remain necessary at diplomatic level and enable us to continue to defend our actions, which are based on international humanitarian law, together with our partners in the Consortium. The last démarche to that effect was made to the Israeli Foreign Minister on 25 February 2021. A third line of action provides for the requirement for full, immediate and unhindered humanitarian access in accordance with the obligations arising from international humanitarian law. We have already done so, when emergency humanitarian aid to the communities of Umsa Al Bakkaia was prevented. Another point is the call within the EU for the various Council bodies to take greater account of this issue. It is on the initiative of Belgium that discussions continue in the various Council working groups. The next point is a multilateral plea in support of the efforts of the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, Tor Wennesland, and of his deputy, the humanitarian coordinator on the ground, Mrs Lynn Hastings. Our diplomatic posts have recently discussed this issue with them. Belgium also raised this issue by joining a public intervention in the margins of the briefing on the VPMO in the Security Council on 26 February 2021. As you know, Belgium, like the European Union, calls for the lifting of the blockade and the full opening of the crossing points. Here I am talking about the obstacles to freedom of movement in Gaza, while taking into account Israel's legitimate security concerns. Since the resumption of coordination in civil matters between the Palestinian Authority and Israel last December, medical transfers to hospitals in East Jerusalem in the West Bank have been facilitated mainly, but also to Jordan. Transfers to Israeli hospitals are more exceptional, but it is true that there are still problems with licensing and transfer authorizations, which are reinforced in the context of the pandemic. This type of problem is raised by our Consulate General in Jerusalem with representatives of the European Union and the United Nations on the ground. We encourage them to continue their dialogue with the Israeli authorities in this regard. Belgium is also a humanitarian donor to the health sector in Gaza, through the OCHA humanitarian fund and by NGOs active in the medical sector, via the European Union. With regard to the Palestinian elections, I publicly welcomed the announcement of the next parliamentary and presidential elections. The immediate priority is to ensure that conditions are in place for free, democratic and transparent, inclusive elections in accordance with international standards throughout the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem. It is known that in the context of occupation, restrictions on freedom of movement and access are challenges, as well as health risks. In this difficult context, Belgium advocates, within the European Union bodies, for a credible observation mission of the various elections, in a context which is made, it is known, even more complex and painful by the Covid-19, and for financial support for the organisation of the elections. We have already received assurances from the European Union in this respect. With regard to the necessary holding of campaigning activities and the elections in East Jerusalem, it is unlikely that an Israeli commitment in this regard would be expected before the Israeli elections on 23 March; the context of the electoral campaign is not conducive to such a commitment. On the other hand, we are continuing our advocacy with our American partners, whose intervention in 2006 had been instrumental in putting pressure on Israel. Finally, and as I have pointed out on several occasions, it is counterproductive for Belgium to recognise Palestine if our country is not accompanied by a significant number of European partners. Not unilateral recognition, which would not have any impact on the Middle East peace process, but recognition at the right time with a significant number of European partners. On the last point, I think it is the fourth time that I have answered that question. I'll keep doing that, too, no problem. You shouldn't blame me if I repeat myself. I am trying to be coherent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u17	That is, of course, important in life, Madam Secretary. The questions also come back, of course, because things are evolving in Israel. Thank you for your very comprehensive answer. My question was about the tenders that came up again in January and the settlements that have not yet been withdrawn. Political leaders also indicate that they will not come back to this. They are part of the talks between the United States and Israel, and I think that the situation there has stalled. After all, the Trump administration had reached a bad agreement with Prime Minister Netanyahou. It is also a good thing that you say that, through the European Union, we must put pressure on the United States to get them back on track for the solution with the two states. I think that's where the challenge lies. We may so often express our concern or condemn things through the ambassador in Tel Aviv or the Security Council, but it is the United States that must be pushed back in the right direction. You are right to say that this must be done by the European Union. You have said on several occasions that we are making that exercise with the states that share our opinion. That's a difference from the past. You said that if we do not make progress through the European Union, we will try with the countries that are in favour of the two-state solution to ensure that Israel also continues to work in this direction. The Borrell option paper, to which you refer, is indeed an interesting instrument. We must insist that this is achieved. I hope that at the next question we will get more clarity on how that option paper evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. The fact that so many groups are asking questions about this issue demonstrates this enormous sensitivity. (...) this lives in the Federal Parliament. It is therefore necessary to reflect this sensitivity in our government's policy. The position and position of the federal government is very clear... how fast it is going. There is a de facto annexation (...) of East Jerusalem continues unabated. Every once in a while we hear of new construction plans in the occupied territories. I referred in my question to the plan for the construction of 1,200 new homes in Givat Hamatos, which is occupied territory. In summary, the question is how to put pressure on Israeli policy. There are (...) demarches in progress. As Mrs Van Hoof says, it is indeed a good thing that the federal government's policy is also one to look for like-minded states to find consensus within the European Union. The government also speaks of taking a step forward bilaterally. We want (...) to realize that passage in the coalition agreement. There are opportunities to do so, both like-minded states, European Union and bilaterally. I personally think that (...) possibilities (...) to think about this, regardless of the question (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u19	Madam Minister, (...) push through diplomatic means (...) to take action (...) (technical problem)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u20	(technical problem)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and, in particular, for a sentence that you have spoken and repeated three times. Indeed, you said: "We want a just and lasting solution". That is why we must welcome the government agreement and the position that has been adopted. Indeed, everyone knows that a just and lasting solution was not the solution sought by the late, or not, President Donald Trump and through the plan he had proposed. In order to have a fair and lasting solution, a whole range of measures must be put in place. I have visited the Jordan Valley very often. The people living there are Bedouins or Palestinians who have been driven out by the various Israeli invasions and have taken refuge in this valley. These populations are particularly vulnerable because they are outside the radars, sometimes even the radars of the Palestinian Authority. They undergo colonization that has nothing to do with population colonization since it is an agricultural colonization that aims to capture and enjoy as much fertile land as possible. It is really time to recognize that the de jure annexation that is on the side, for the moment, does not prevent a de facto annexation in a slow manner, which is also in progress. I do not know if I should share your optimism, following Mr Biden's arrival in the US presidency. But why not? Palestinians often repeat that they do not have the luxury of despair. This is indeed the case with Joe Biden's arrival. However, the first market for Israeli settlement products is the European Union. It's not the United States. While it is true that, at the diplomatic level, the balance of power must be reversed and that framing must change at the United States level, at the commercial level, we really have a role to play. And I can only agree with what has been said earlier. It is time to ban settlement products that are illegal. This would be logical not only in terms of consumer respect but also in terms of respect for international law. Other avenues of action exist. For differentiation, it is necessary to put in place concrete actions such as the application of the differentiation clause in bilateral agreements with Israel. It would also be interesting to take action within the United Nations Human Rights Council to regularly update the database of settlement-based companies. Indeed, this database is very important. Moreover, you have stressed – this is another positive point – the value of moving forward with like-minded States, without waiting for a European consensus. However, you have given a rather worrying sentence. Indeed, you said that the context of the Israeli electoral campaign was not conducive to commitments to the right to vote of Palestinians. Still, it is delusional to have to assume a non-compliance with international law because of elections in a country. Finally, minister, I don't know if you've seen the movie An Endless Story with Bill Murray. Unfortunately, I think we will come back every month to ask you about the reality of the Israeli occupation, as long as we, Belgium, and other States, do not act to stop these violations of international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your answers and especially for the clarity of your positions on the organization of the elections in East Jerusalem. I hear and take note of your voluntarism. It is true that I have talked about the restriction or bliss that you put in the context of the Israeli campaign, but above all I hold back your willingness to make possible the organization of the elections in Jerusalem. In a more fundamental way, I would like to say that Wouter De Vriendt was right to recall that concern, concern about the evolution of this conflict is something widely shared. This is indeed a debate that lives very much in this committee. He may be one of the most active people in the country. I'm not going to speak on behalf of the colleagues, but I'm going to risk saying that we're looking forward to the government coming with measures in line with what the government agreement allows and even more fundamentally, I'm dreaming – but is it just a dream? – to see the European consensus re-examined in the light of the evolution of the deterioration of this conflict. There is an Israeli radicalization that is patent and undeniable. We must therefore ask ourselves whether the European consensus is still effective. Is he still producing something? Is there anything else that allows us to react on a case-by-case basis, sometimes by acquiring consciousness, sometimes in order to give ourselves a good conscience? This European consensus must be critically questioned and I have the impression that it must be much more in tune with a situation that has deteriorated. For the past twenty years, these great European declarations in favour of two states living side by side – you know the result by heart – have not prevented the balance of forces from reversing or, in any case, from imbalanced as never before in this region. At one point, it is necessary to make its critical examination and to ask under what conditions we can still be effective or weigh in this conflict in order to restore a form of balance that also allows us to move towards a peaceful resolution of this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, the situation of Alexeï Navalny has changed considerably since our last exchange and since the last questions I have had an opportunity to ask you about it. I therefore propose to summarize here my various questions on this subject. Relations between the European Union and Russia have deteriorated with the recent arrest of Alexei Navalny, upon his return to the country. Many demonstrations in support of the opponent took place throughout the country and were violently repressed. Tens of thousands of people have been arrested. On February 2, the Moscow court finally sentenced the opponent to a prison sentence of three and a half years, thus revoking the stay of a previous conviction. The judge found that the conditions of his stay had not been complied with, since Mr. Navalny did not appear as intended at the Moscow police station to show up. As he himself recalled during his hearing, it was difficult for him to do so, since he was in Germany at the time in a coma. Subsequently, and on the terms of reference of the Foreign Affairs Council, High Representative Josep Borell visited Moscow to bring the European Union's voice to the Russian authorities. A journey that ended, we know, in humiliation. Minister, these recent developments are particularly worrying. They were at the heart of your discussions in the European Council of Foreign Ministers. It was decided that a series of additional sanctions would be imposed. Do you already have a vision of the nature of these sanctions and the time frame within which they would be taken? What practical means of pressure will they be mobilised? As you have already explained, Russia remains an important strategic player in our neighbourhood and it is important to keep the channels of communication open. How do you see this balance between intransigence on our core values and dialogue with Russia? Finally, you stressed the need to step up support for Russian civil society, to support citizens fighting for freedom of expression and respect for the rule of law. Was this claim heard at the Council meeting? How was it perceived? How will it be translated into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u24	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u25	(...) (Inaudible – Technical problems)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will be very short, because my colleagues De Maegd and Jadin have already dealt very comprehensively with this difficult issue of respect for human rights and, in particular, that of the arrest and imprisonment of Alexei Navalny. I would just like to add two more specific questions. Of course, I would not want to forget all those that have been submitted unwritten. Firstly, could Belgium consider requesting the end of the Nord Stream 2 project as a sanction of the European Union vis-à-vis Russia? Secondly, I would like to refer to the massive repression of demonstrations in Russia that took place since 23 January last. Thousands of demonstrators, in particular young people, were arrested in conditions that did not conform to respect for fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u27	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u28	I agree with colleagues' questions about Borrell's visit. The sanctions would relate not to oligarchs, but to four persons who would have been involved in the capture and poisoning of Navalny. The pressure is therefore being kept high from within the European Union. I had another question about vaccine diplomacy from Russia. We need all the vaccines. Countries like Serbia are fully vaccinated with Sputnik. I also think we should try to get as many vaccines as possible, probably also Sputnik. However, they also appear to be using disinformation campaigns. In Latin America it is said that the Western vaccines do not work. That's gonna cause some tension. I wonder what you're up against. When concluding an agreement on Sputnik, no conditions should be registered, including the disinformation campaign and the condemnation of ongoing vaccine diplomacy from both China and Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, your many questions bear witness to the grave concern about the reduction of civilian space in Russia and the situation of Mr Navalny, which I fully share. Over the past few months, we have been following developments on the ground with suspicion. They were condemned both bilaterally and at European Union level in multilateral fora. The arrest of Mr Navalny when he got off a plane in Moscow on 17 January, confirmed our fears. The EU has published on behalf of the 27 Member States a declaration condemning the arrest and demanding the release of Mr Navalny. At his conviction on 3 February, another statement from the EU-27 was published. The European Union, the United States, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada have denounced the violence of repression in the OSCE Permanent Council. The OSCE's commitments on freedom of peaceful assembly were fully recalled. Belgium also supported the reaction of the international community following the repression during the demonstration in support of Mr Navalny. We are systematically addressing the issue of human rights in Russia, including Mr Navalny's case, in the multilateral fora, as at the session of the UN Human Rights Council of September 2020. Let me also go back in detail to the impact of the Navalny affair on relations between Russia and Europe. As early as the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 January, some Member States wished to resort to sanctions under the new horizontal human rights regime or to exercise a form of diplomatic retaliatory action through the postponement of the visit of the representative Josep Borrell to Moscow. According to the group, these proposals would have complicated the mandate that High Representative Borrell had received in October 2020 to explore avenues of engagement with Russia in accordance with the guiding principles set by the European Union vis-à-vis Moscow. Making decisions without having at least attempted a dialogue on the subject with the Russian government would have been counterproductive. It was with this in mind that the High Representative visited Moscow. The purpose of his visit was to allow direct contact at a high level so that he could act in the most strategic way possible, taking into account our common interests. Josep Borrell's conversation with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov was very difficult and confirmed the stance of confrontation that Russia wishes to pursue with the EU. In this way, the High Representative wanted to send clear messages to Russia and, at the same time, to identify the issues on which a constructive dialogue can be conducted. His visit offered the opportunity to discuss the matter of Mr Navalny and human rights in Russia, but also to engage in a frank dialogue with a country that remains an important neighbour of the EU. In addition, the High Representative met members of the Alexei Navalny team and representatives of civil society. It is important that the High Representative retains a certain degree of autonomy in the implementation of the European Union's foreign policy. Our country retains confidence in the role and autonomy of the HR as EU spokesman, even if the dialogue is difficult. The need for dialogue with Moscow is not under discussion, even if Russia is not currently interested in strengthening its links with the EU. Europeans must agree on a coherent response to the recent Russian provocation and remind Russia of its international human rights obligations. From this point of view, the adoption of sanctions is part of the discussion. It is a guarantee of Europe's credibility and an instrument to bring about change in Russian behaviour. There are already three sanctioning regimes specific to Russia and related to the situation in Ukraine. In addition, there are individual sanctions based on other sanction regimes, namely the horizontal regime against chemical weapons, whereby the listing of persons and entities is linked to the Skripal and Navalny cases and, last but not least, the horizontal sanction regime for cyber attacks used after the hacking of the German parliament. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February, I stressed that, as a matter of principle, sanctions are not an end in themselves but a tool that must be credible and effective if the desired effect is to be achieved. Political agreement was reached for the adoption of sanctions on the basis of the horizontal human rights regime. Specific positions and proposals of persons to be punished have been studied in order to ensure the legal soundness and political relevance of the decision. As you have seen in the press, their official adoption is now finalized. It concerns four officials of the Russian judicial and prison system. I'm being asked if that's enough. You can see that, in several arrangements, sanctions have already been imposed on Russia. Is that enough? The future will tell us. The reality is that we must continue not only to affirm our values and what is wrong, but also to pursue dialogue. I can tell you that at the announcement of sanctions against these four officials of the Russian prison and judicial system, we have already had a negative reaction from Russia. At the same time, it was also decided that the EU would continue its commitment to Russian civil society as a whole and to the defence of human rights by avoiding focusing the debate on a particular opponent. We must continue and strengthen our engagement with Russian civil society. The Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February also discussed this issue with the new Secretary of State, Antony Blinken. He confirmed the American position demanding Navalny's release. The United States welcomes the adoption of new European sanctions and is ready to cooperate with Europe on this issue. As regards the direct contacts with Mr Navalny's entourage and his foundation, I can give you the following details: on the initiative of Poland, the EU ambassadors to the PSC, including the Belgian representative, were able to meet with the Navalny Foundation on 8 February. A new meeting was held with some of Alexeï Navalny's collaborators in Brussels at the invitation of my Lithuanian colleague on 22 February. At the bilateral level, my services met with the Russian Ambassador to Belgium on 17 February to express our concerns. On 5 February Belgium condemned, like our European partners, the expulsion of the three diplomats (Swedish, German and Polish) from Russia who were only doing their usual diplomatic work. Our bilateral relations with Russia remain good, but I am not planning a trip to Moscow at the moment. Some of you have addressed more specific issues in their written questions, including our position on the Nord Stream 2 project. This is a mainly German-Russian project. The gas consumed by Belgium comes from Russia up to 3%. No Belgian company is part of the Nord Stream 2 consortium. Belgium does not intend to take any initiative on this issue, even if we remain attentive to its evolution. The European Union recognises the different positions of the Member States. The Commission shall ensure that the construction of this gas pipeline complies with existing European laws, in particular the 2019 Directive on the internal market in natural gas, while considering that this project does not contribute to the objectives of diversifying and securing the European energy supply. For the question on money laundering in Europe, I invite you to turn to the Minister of Finance, who is in a better position to answer this. Finally, there was the question of whether a vaccine agreement could be concluded between the European Union and Russia, the conditions and the EU attitude towards the vaccine diplomacy of Russia and China. The European vaccine strategy was discussed by Heads of State or Government at the informal European Council on 25 and 26 January. I would therefore like to refer to Prime Minister De Croo for an explanation of the conclusions of the European Council, but I suppose he did so at yesterday's meeting. What I would like to add, however, is that the number of vaccines delivered to third countries, both Sinopharm and Sputnik V, is low. For example, for Serbia, an EU accession candidate and a neighbouring country of the EU, only 2,000 doses of Sputnik V were involved on 17 February. The provision of medical supplies, which has been widely publicised in the media, is indeed intended to increase the sphere of influence of Russia and China. We must remain vigilant in this matter. Finally, I would remind you that Russia remains a central concern for us, both in terms of its internal developments and its action on the international stage. We must also defend our interests vis-à-vis Russia, both bilaterally and at European level. Relations between Europe and Russia are currently under consideration at European level. It is intended to be discussed at the March European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u30	Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. As we speak, after being poisoned and treated, Alexey Navalny is still detained, as is the case with hundreds of thousands of opponents, despite protests from the international community. As you pointed out, Belgium has expressed its support for Mr Navalny. We can only thank you for that. This case of gross violation of human rights and the rights of defence must necessarily lead to sanctions by the European Union. It was, alas, inescapable. Targeted sanctions have therefore been imposed against high-ranking officials of the Russian judicial system. At the same time, the European Union must keep open channels of communication with Moscow. And, in accordance with the quadrature of the circle, in addition to the sanctions against Moscow, the Union must exert its full weight to help Russian civil society and, in particular, to support respect for the rule of law and freedom of expression. I therefore count on you, Madam Minister, to remind the Russian authorities, at each meeting, in all possible fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u31	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your long answer. I think it is important for European countries to show a unified and coherent position and a certain diplomatic firmness in the face of the very serious violations of human rights and freedoms in Russia. I would also like to note that the Nord Stream 2 pipeline seems to me to remain an effective lever. As is well known, this gas pipeline would double the gas supply capacity, particularly for Germany, which is already the case for its oldest Nord Stream 1. Although we are very little dependent on Russian gas in Belgium, it is important for the European Union to enjoy energy independence from Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u33	[[...]] Madam President, my question No 55013759C, which appears in item 22 of the agenda, which dealt with the future of the Nord Stream 2 project, may, in my view, be considered as having received a response from the Minister. I ask you to join it in the debate that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u34	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. The EU has indeed taken a clear position in the Navalny case. I myself look forward to the effects of the Magnitsky sanctions imposed. We are talking about four people for the time being, but I think we will have to evaluate the effects in the longer term. I am also looking forward to the European Russia strategy, to call it that. I believe that it is indeed necessary to formulate a coherent response at European level. Several colleagues have already mentioned all aspects. It's not just about us. The other European Member States also have energy, vaccine and safety interests. There is also trade, which has an effect on our country. These are all elements that we need to take into account in a larger EU policy. We welcome the position and signal given to Russia on human rights. We look forward to evaluating the concrete Magnitsky sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I share your concern. Unfortunately, Russia has been committed for several years to a clear will to weaken the European Union and its democracy, to fragment it and to manipulate its elections. That is very regrettable. I think we have all dreamed of a very different agenda with this country, but that is what it imposes on us today. We must remain aware of the danger faced by our democracies as well as of the threat also posed to Russian democrats, desirous of extracting themselves from this oppression. We must therefore stand by them. The first sanctions adopted by the European Union do not really convince me, since they concern four officials who do not care that their possible assets - probably small - are frozen in Europe. Similarly, the issue of visas remains purely symbolic, as no oligarchs are being struck at the moment. As for Nord Stream 2, I heard your answer. You'll allow me to call it Normand's answer. On the one hand, we are told that the European Union believes that this does not allow for diversification of supplies and, in plain terms, increases our energy dependence on Russia. On the other hand, we are not involved in this issue which divides the European Union. However, the latter must be more ambitious in such a strategic matter. I agree with my colleague Cogolati that Belgium should be more offensive in such a case, which would have a leverage effect on our relations with Russia. I do not forget that Russia is also seriously responsible for the destabilization of the European border, particularly with regard to Syria. Unfortunately, we have a very powerful strategic opponent, who has modernized his military arsenal and threatens us in different ways. We must therefore rise to this threat and understand how, alas, Russia only hears the balance of forces. It has largely mocked the first sanctions that the European Union has just taken. I hope that we can be better respected in the future by the Russian government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. When it comes to human rights, there are some instruments available. A conviction can be formulated. This can also be addressed in international fora, at bilateral level. Concerns can be indicated. Now, with individual sanctions, there is still a new means. I think that we should continue along this path in order to make it clear to countries that certain things cannot be accepted. I hope that these sanctions will also have some impact, because it is ultimately intended that countries change their behaviour. I don't think isolation is helping. I think it is important to continue to engage in dialogue, both bilaterally and at European level. That must be done in a good way. What Mr Borrell has done cannot be repeated. I look forward to seeing what the individual sanctions will bring about. I hope countries will change their attitude. If that is not the case, then we will have to tap out of a new box, because human rights are supposed to be respected throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u38	Madam Minister, once again you gave an extensive and very interesting answer, thank you very much for that. Frankly, I am not so optimistic about the chances of success in achieving a strong European Russia strategy. I believe that the division in the European Union is too great for that. This is illustrated by the overall very low sanction package for four officials. That only illustrates the problem. It's better than nothing, of course. It means the door is still open to business. Unfortunately, it demonstrates the weakness of our European strategy vis-à-vis Russia. That is what we see and will be exploited. So, the longer nothing more substantial happens, the more that will play in Russia's favor. We have just had the discussion about Israel and Palestine and the principle of like-minded states. Does this not provide a perspective for us to work with a number of countries to see how we can move forward and achieve a new strategic dialogue with Russia? This dialogue must be accompanied by a flexible sanctioning mechanism. The dialogue is very open, but also conditional, in the light of universal principles such as human rights or international law. We must not forget what has happened in recent years. That is actually unacceptable. Human rights and international law are really being violated. Think of the annexation of Crimea, hacking operations that are clearly controlled from Russia, the hybrid warfare and the poisoning of Alexei Navalny. I think there's enough dust to create a new kind of relationship with Russia. However, I wonder whether this will be possible in the current framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament 55012688C by Mrs Samyn is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will slightly adjust my question because it was entitled "The World Ice Hockey Cup in Belarus". I hear that, under international pressure, things have already changed and that this famous World Cup will take place in Latvia. On the other hand, what has not changed, Madam Minister, is that at the time we are discussing, a thousand demonstrators are still going down the streets to challenge this "last" dictatorship on the European continent. Moreover, the European Union has imposed heavy sanctions against Belarus, which has been going on for months, without having any effect on the repression against the opponents of the current President. The opposition on the spot is calling for tougher sanctions, in particular by cutting off all economic relations with Minsk. Minister, can you give us an update on the current situation in Belarus? Given that discussions will be held shortly at the level of foreign ministers, will the European Union also mention this issue and possible new sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Belarus remains extremely worrying. I can assure you that the FPS Foreign Affairs closely monitors the human rights situation and recent developments in Belarus. Like its partners in the European Union, Belgium supports the democratic aspirations of the Belarusian people. We continue to call for an independent investigation into clearly manipulated electoral results and brutal repression of peaceful demonstrations. We also call for a national dialogue between the people in power and civil society and the opposition. Our country continues to raise the situation, both at EU level and in its own name. Within the EU, we have already adopted restrictive measures at various stages against regime authorities responsible for human rights violations and democratic values. Several EU statements have also been made indicting the situation and recent developments. The situation in Belarus was discussed again at the Foreign Affairs Council in January and February. On 25 February, the European Council decided to extend the existing restrictive measures until 28 February 2022. This concerns a travel ban, a freezing of funds for 88 individuals, including Lukashenko, and seven entities. We will continue to monitor the situation closely. If there is no improvement, new sanctions are not excluded. In doing so, the EU addresses the situation in several multilateral fora: the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the UN Human Rights Council and the UN Security Council. Our country is also very active in these multilateral fora. On 17 September 2020, Belgium, together with 16 other countries, called in the OSCE Moscow mechanism. The report of this mechanism documents in detail the mass human rights violations and electoral fraud and makes a series of recommendations to the Belarusian Government. Belgium also supports the repeated mediation proposals of the Chairman in Office of the OSCE, which were refused by the Belarusian authorities. Belgium also participated actively in the UN Security Council meeting on the situation in Belarus in September 2020 and in the meeting on media freedom in Belarus in January 2021. A debate on the human rights situation in Belarus took place at the September session of the UN Human Rights Council on the initiative of the EU. In this context, the High Commissioner for Human Rights published an oral interim update of the human rights situation in Belarus in December 2020. Belgium made a statement during both debates to stress the need for an independent, transparent and impartial international investigation into allegations of torture and other serious human rights violations. Furthermore, in November 2020, Belarus's universal periodic review took place in the Human Rights Council. Belgium made recommendations on the abolition of the death penalty, the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners and respect for the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and peaceful meetings. The EU will also keep the issue high on the agenda of the international community during the next March session of the Human Rights Council. Belgium will again make a statement during the interactive dialogue on Belarus and has also joined a joint declaration on torture in the context of repression against demonstrators in Belarus. A few more words about the situation on the spot, which unfortunately has not improved. The regime refuses any dialogue, both with the international community and with the opposition and/or the civil society in dispute. The demonstrations are now limited in scope, but the Belarusian opposition movement remains alive. At the same time, repression continues, as well as the arrests of opponents, and a hardening is to be feared. The first sentences of several months in prison against demonstrators are beginning to be handed down. I also had an answer about hockey for Ms Jadin, but she adapted her question to the current situation as the competition will not finally take place in Minsk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u42	Minister, thank you for these very precise and complex answers. Of course, you have our full support for the declarations and the strengthening of all aspects of respect for human rights, particularly in the situation of many Belarusians. They rely on the European Union and its attitude towards their democratic cry. We will also need to continue our efforts to enable freedom of expression to flourish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u43	Madam Secretary, the images we get from Belarus are terrible. There are prison camps. Demonstrators are arrested and locked up in confined spaces. We get to see that footage on a regular basis. I can only stress that the European Union must go further with the sanctions. The restrictive measures should be extended and, if necessary, extended. Today 88 individuals, including Lukashenko, and seven organisations are on the black list, but I can imagine that more people have been guilty of these terrible torture practices against people who allegedly violate public order by means of group actions. They're just taking up public space. We can't respond to that enough. An independent international investigation is needed to record those human rights violations and to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u44	Madam President, Mr De Maegd, my meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, on 21 January 2021, allowed us to have a cordial but frank exchange on a wide range of bilateral, European and international issues. He was in Brussels for interviews at the European level. It is clear that this visit was part of Turkey's desire to resume dialogue with the European Union, which is positive. At the bilateral level, we have reviewed our political relations. At the outset, I stressed the importance that Belgium, as a friendly and allied country within NATO, attached to the issue of human rights in Turkey. I have also stressed that there is a positive agenda on the table to be inscribed, if Turkey is truly engaged in de-escalation in the Eastern Mediterranean and settles its differences through dialogue and in accordance with international law. We also heard the Turkish government's announcement of a plan for reform in the field of human rights. We are now waiting for that intention to materialize. We have raised various issues of common interest. I also had the opportunity to recall Belgium's position on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. With regard to the modernisation of the customs union, I informed him of the position I had expressed the previous day in a virtual joint economic and commercial committee with the Turkish Minister for Trade. Our exporters face a number of obstacles. We have called for full implementation of the Customs Union currently in force. Modernisation of this Union could only be envisaged with a view to a lasting revival of relations between Turkey and the European States. For this, however, Turkey must not only comply with its obligations within the framework of the current Customs Union, but also comply with the political conditions laid down at European level, namely respect for human rights and positive development in the Eastern Mediterranean. In conclusion, I would describe this first meeting with my Turkish counterpart as very constructive. This is a good basis for continuing our dialogue at bilateral level. At European level, the next deadline will be the March European Council, at which we will again take stock of relations with Turkey. In my opinion, this session will be interesting, given the recent developments in the Mediterranean that I have been able to read about even today. But don't go any faster than the music and see how it all fits in!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are many ongoing issues with Ankara, including the human rights issue – with this advance, this announced reform plan – the de-escalation in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Nagorny Karabakh conflict and the Customs Union file. We will remain very attentive to all these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u46	Since Mr De Spiegeleer is not here, we are going to postpone his question No 55013195C. Mrs Verhelst is also not available to ask her question number 55013248C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, I come from the province of Luxembourg and that is why I am asking you this question. In our communes, almost 60% of the working population works daily in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Luxembourg Prime Minister spoke publicly and said that Belgians working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg could probably be vaccinated in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Your counterpart, a few weeks later, said that the Belgian government had included these frontier workers in the people to be vaccinated by Belgium. Minister, I have questions on a daily basis to clarify this situation. Where will Belgian workers living in Belgium, living in Belgium, and working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg be vaccinated, since initially the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has distributed masks to all these workers, since many workers already benefit from health care in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u48	Madam Minister, my question concerns Belgians who are a little further abroad than Luxembourg, namely outside the EU. I refer to my question No. 550012244C of 19 January 2021 on the vaccination of compatriots abroad and your response to that. You referred to consultations between the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Public Health to examine the international aspects of the COVID-19 vaccination. You said literally at the time: 'We must look at the measures taken by the authorities of each country for its inhabitants.' The vaccination strategies are based on a principle of territoriality to apply to all residents, without making a distinction on the basis of nationality. Nevertheless, you indicated that there would be a European Council on 21 January 2021 which would deal with this issue, among other things. What was the Council's outcome on this? Has there been talk of compatriots living in non-European countries? For example, in South Africa and certain countries in South America, there is no prospect of a vaccine for large groups and so our fellow countrymen cannot fall back on that either. If so, what will the strategy be? If not, will Belgium do something extra?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u49	Minister, more and more Belgians living abroad are worried because they do not have access to vaccination against covid-19. In an answer to a parliamentary question on this subject on 19 January, you said that these people depend on the measures taken by the local authorities at the moment and that vaccination strategies are based on a principle of territoriality. In many countries, especially outside Europe, Belgians will not have access to vaccination for a very long time. Some of them are very old and others have comorbidity factors that expose them to serious forms of covid. I find it difficult to refer them only to local vaccination strategies. Indeed, for many of them, this would mean that they are simply not vaccinated - perhaps even for several years. The Belgian government must therefore detect problematic situations and countries and set up in the coming months a minimum vaccination scheme for those most at risk. With good reason, Belgium supports the VOCAX scheme, in solidarity with developing countries. It would be surprising if, at the same time, it could not find solutions for the vaccination of at-risk groups among Belgians abroad. Minister, what initiatives do you intend to take in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u50	I had a question about the vaccination of our diplomatic corps abroad, but also about the vaccination of EU officials in Belgium. That question was referred to the Health Committee which is taking place this afternoon. That's too bad. So I was unable to listen to the answer because I had questions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u51	I don't know anything about that, so I can't really intervene on that right now. It's a good thing you're noticing it. In this way, the questions can be properly assigned. Madam Minister, I hope you can also give some of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u52	I'll do my best. In response to your questions on border vaccination, the doses of covid-19 vaccine distributed by the European Union are distributed in proportion to the residents of all Member States. Borderliners are included in this distribution in the country in which they reside. To our knowledge, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has taken the decision to vaccinate not only its residents, but also non-residents who work in the health sector and are border workers, on the same terms as its residents. Frontiers in the other sectors are not affected by this Luxembourg decision. As far as cross-border residents domiciled in Belgium are concerned, they will be invited to be vaccinated in our country in the same way as other residents. With regard to the question about the European Council and the vaccination of Belgians abroad, I can give the following answer. The European Council on 21 January discussed solidarity with third countries under the COOVID-19 vaccine. There appeared to be a general consensus among Member States to send a strong signal of international solidarity by sharing some of the available vaccines with third countries. As long as the mechanism for the equitable distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine by the World Health Organisation (WHO) is not fully operational, the European Commission will help Member States to organise resale and donations of vaccines to third countries. However, no specific mention was made of the vaccination of European citizens living in third countries. In this context, and as I stressed in committee on 19 January, we must first look at the measures taken by the authorities of each country. In many countries, our nationals will be included in the national vaccination campaign, in a safe way. However, the necessary sanitary conditions for the storage, transport and supply of vaccines do not allow on-site vaccination with vaccines that would be dispatched from Belgium. Furthermore, our embassies and consulates are not properly equipped and are not competent to administer health care, to carry out the vaccination campaign themselves. However, does the question end there? No, of course not! We are currently working with the SPF Santé to consider the situation of Belgians living abroad who would not be part of a local vaccination campaign, either because it does not exist simply or because the vaccine that is distributed there would not meet our standards. There is also this issue that needs to be taken into account. We are therefore planning with the SPF Santé on this issue and in the course of our discussions there are those relating to Belgian diplomats living abroad. From the moment they are Belgian, they are taken over on the whole. The question that arises and to which we do not yet have an answer is that of timing. When you live abroad, you don't come back from a snap of fingers like when you're summoned for a classic vaccination strategy. You don't go to the Heysel to vaccinate in the same way you do in your area. You live far away. Where you are, there is no vaccination strategy. You have to go to Belgium to get vaccinated. In this regard, a timing must be organised because the idea is not to grant additional rights to each other in relation to a strategy agreed here. But the reflection takes account of the fact that some people live extremely far away and do not return to Belgium every fortnight to get vaccinated. This question has not yet been answered. We are working on this system and I hope that we will come quickly with a proposal because we must take these imperatives into account too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u53	I would like to thank the Minister for her very precise answer and already point out to her that, in the coming weeks, I will come with other questions on Belgian-Luxembourg relations which are very important, including non-essential travel (in the midst of a crisis at the moment) since we are living with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg almost more than with Belgium (when we know that 60% of the working population is working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg). I will invite you to this region as soon as the crisis improves so that you can see the relations existing in our various communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that Belgium, as well as the Health Department, is working on it. I'll be free to re-inquire about it in a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer, and I understand that the government's position has evolved. Indeed, beyond the principle of territoriality, which remains the basic principle, there is the consideration of countries where there would be no approved vaccine or no campaign. I would add to these two elements those countries where foreigners are not included in the vaccination plan or where vaccination is postponed to several months or next year. I therefore think that we really need to pay attention to Belgians who are likely to find themselves in very complicated situations for their health or the protection of their health. Therefore, thank you for continuing to develop this issue and strategy towards Belgians abroad, so that they are not forgotten in our vaccination plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u56	Madam President, Minister, my question goes on to a written question that I had already tabled on the implementation of the resolution on the cessation of German pensions to collaborators. From your answer to my written question, I conclude that you have not yet made an official request to the German Federal Government to set up a bilateral scientific committee to map all the fees, which was, however, prescribed by the resolution. In 2019, according to the Federal Government, some 2,800 allowances were paid in Belgium for services rendered to Germany during the Second World War. By May 2020, 10 of them would remain. The difference in number may be explained by the fact that military pensions or damages due to war are exempt from the exchange of pension data as provided for in a European directive. However, there is a new element in the debate: the Dutch Secretary of State for Finance informed the House of Representatives that the German Federal Government has responded to its request to provide the Netherlands with a list of names and benefits. I have the following questions. Given the developments in the Netherlands, will the Belgian Government still submit a similar request to the German competent authority to obtain a list of all the names and benefits that are still being paid? Will a request be made, in implementation of the resolution mentioned by the Chamber, to set up a bilateral scientific committee to map all fees? Have you already been in contact with the Minister of Justice, because he had stated in reply to a question by Mr Lacroix that he intended to deliver all the names of Belgian and foreign collaborators who stayed in Belgium during the Second World War to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia who are competent for Belgian pensions? What's the status there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u57	Madam Minister, the problem has already been explained in detail by the previous speaker and I agree with his questions. The Dutch Ministry of Finance sent a letter to the Dutch House of Representatives in January, in which the German Government publishes a list of names and the amount of benefits for the years 2015 to 2019. It was stated at that time that the tax authorities will assess the information and also check whether the relevant benefits have been correctly reported. Hence my question. Can you tell us whether the Belgian Government will also ask Germany or ask it again? Have you done that yet? What was the answer? If not, can you tell us when to do that plant? Will you also respond to the questions raised in the relevant resolution adopted in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u58	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor on this sensitive subject, which is crucial in terms of the duty of memory. I will endorse what my colleagues have said, particularly those of Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys. It has been several times since I asked the ministers concerned about the implementation of this resolution in the House. In his last reply, the Minister of Finance began by recalling a series of circulars and tax provisions according to which it was not possible to exchange data between Germany and Belgium. Secondly, on the basis of the Dutch example I gave him, he replied that he was now open to ask his colleague, the German Minister of Finance, on the basis of European legislation on European assistance in order to obtain this information. He said he had to ask you for your opinion on the matter. So what do you think about this? Has the Minister of Finance asked you de facto?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, I would like to recall the context and the figures. In the latest data provided by the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia at the beginning of January, nine persons were entitled to a pension in Belgium under the German Federal Social Security Act. These are four war invalids, three of them German, moved to Belgium after the war, one Belgian and five widows, three Belgian and two German nationals. As I explained earlier, we received confirmation from the German competent authority that there are no indications of involvement in crimes and atrocities committed by the Nazis. Our Berlin embassy continues to ask about the state of play with regard to some payments made by the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia. Our embassy also regularly informs about the possibility to get more information about the profile of those beneficiaries. However, as the German authorities have indicated several times in the past, these data are not shared for reasons of personal protection. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Van Quickenborne, also follows this file. I was informed that he had undertaken to provide the German authorities with data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War and sentenced in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier. With regard to the exchange of information between the German and Dutch governments on the beneficiaries of war pensions, I can tell you that it is indeed a purely fiscal matter and that the original request came from the tax authorities in the Netherlands. Since this is an exchange of information at technical level and not at political level, that question will be better addressed to my fellow Finance Minister. Finally, I should like to inform you that the Die Linke parliamentary group in the German Federal Parliament has submitted a proposal to amend the German Federal Social Security Act. Since 1950, this law has governed state payments to the victims of the Second World War. The proposal to amend the law was referred to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and was discussed on 25 January. Experts from the administrations concerned had the opportunity to comment. It follows that a fundamental revision of this law will be examined in the light of several fundamental legal principles, including that of legal certainty. It remains to be seen whether a political decision will be taken in Germany, concerning either the continuation of research or a different application of the law. I will now leave the text that has been given to me to respond to your questions. Indeed, I have the feeling that there is growing frustration with the various interventions with different ministers. I think I can say that everyone is sincere in the process. There is no trial of intent to do. But I can understand the frustration of parliamentarians who end up wondering what end they should take on this issue. I will therefore talk to my colleagues about this question and try to see what kind of approach we can have in order to avoid finding ourselves in a situation that frustrates you and, personally, makes me uncomfortable with our duty of parliamentary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u60	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. You added it at the end, but that is what we are talking about. It's not about our personal frustrations. I've been working on the file for a long time now. Is it about ten people, nine people, or more? We're not sure. The essence of this matter is that it concerns victims of a criminal regime, who have been looking for answers for years and now feel that their injustice is not being taken seriously. They're being referred from one to the next. A resolution was adopted here in the Chamber which states that this should be examined and that a bilateral committee should be set up with Germany. If such a scientific committee cannot be set up to clarify things, these people will do it themselves, because they feel that no progress is being made in something that is perceived to be particularly unjust to them. Even if it is years ago, they want justice to be done here. I think that we should also take this debate on a wider scale and take a critical look at what is our own fault and how we deal with our own collaboration. This should be included in the debate. For me, history isn't dead, it's just in the past. We need to be clear about this in order to achieve justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your sincerity and your positive and proactive response. Together with several colleagues, we have indeed repeatedly questioned several members of the government. We are facing a sense of blockage when apparently Dutch parliamentary colleagues have been able to obtain some information from the German government. It seems to us difficult, if not immoral, to accept that in the twenty-first century people can, even symbolically, be rewarded and financially rewarded for monstrous acts of collaboration at the time of the Second World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for the honest answer. I am pleased that this government wants to work on this important dossier because it has more than symbolic value. I hope you will continue with the information you have obtained. As the previous speakers have said, this is very important for those who have been orphaned. These are the descendants of people who made enormous sacrifices during the Second World War, those who actively participated in the resistance to fascist barbarism. In the fantastic series Children of the Resistance on Canvas we have seen that people from the collaboration are unfortunately very quickly rehabilitated while people who have actively contributed to the liberation of our country were quickly suppressed in the memory. A lot of people are still looking for justice and recognition. That is why this dossier is very important and there will be a scientific committee, not only to dig it out but also for historical payments, whether or not with the knowledge of the Belgian government. We must come to terms with this, because all the heirs of people from the resistance in the Second World War are entitled to it. We'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer because I sincerely believe that it will move the matter forward. On the number side, the number does not justify a non-response by the German authorities. It's a timeless problem. It is a problem of justice, morals and memory duty. And, knowing you, I know you're particularly sensitive to it. Moreover, from the moment Germany does not wish to set up a scientific committee bilaterally, however, our resolution, which was adopted in 2019, allows Belgium to set up this scientific committee. I interviewed Secretary of State Thomas Dermine in this regard. He said he was available and ready to set up this scientific commission. The latter is very important because it will allow for audits. First of all, there were the eight persons, who were ten, who received a pension from the German State because they were hired and physically exposed to Hitler's service. It was a 1943 law that was never repealed. Then there are all the others whose colleague, Mrs Vanrobaeys, spoke who are "more passive" collaborators than the previous ones. Finally, there are also all those who have been forcibly recruited. I am thinking in particular of people who lived in the German-speaking Community or in the villages of Waimes, Malmedy, etc. who didn't have a choice. This scientific commission will make it possible to see clearly and to tell the truth. Let me conclude with the tax aspect that you have also mentioned. I'm glad you shared our opinion. It is now up to the Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem, to do his job in this case and therefore to request, on the basis of the European Union Administrative Assistance Act, the same information as his Dutch counterpart has requested and obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u64	Madam Minister, over the last few days, the conference on the future of Europe has been mainly in the news with the question of who will be able to chair it. Apparently, there's a whole football team standing by. The conference would last two years, with many civil meetings, policy debates and consultations, involving civil society and youth organisations. In the meantime, do you have any idea how this conference is going to work? How will it be ensured that the groups involved in the consultations are representative of the population? Finally, and certainly not unimportant to us, how will the national parliaments be involved? At the previous Convention, on the Constitution, the national parliament was specifically involved, by allowing two representatives to participate in the debates and in all meetings. How will this happen at the conference on the future of the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u65	Madam President, the launch of the conference on the future of Europe was delayed by the corona pandemic. Recently, however, progress has been made again. The issue was discussed at the European General Affairs Council on 23 February. Hopefully, a joint declaration by the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council will soon be achieved, which will give shape to the detailed modalities of the conference. The official launch of the conference would take place in Strasbourg on 9 May, Europe Day, if possible in view of the corona restrictions. In conclusion, a report to the European Council is scheduled for spring 2022. The inclusive nature of the process, including through meaningful civic participation, is a priority for Belgium. Citizens from different backgrounds should be able to participate, as well as civil society, the social partners and the Federal Parliament and the parliaments of the Länder. The Foreign Affairs Office has therefore launched an internal analysis to determine how the initiative can be coordinated with the various actors in order to maintain coherence between the numerous activities and the representativeness of the population. The experiences and the mechanism of the citizens consultation in 2018 can undoubtedly serve as a guideline again. For Belgium, participation by the national parliament and the federal parliaments has always been an important focus of attention. The European institutions also recognise its importance. In December 2020, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen confirmed at the most recent plenary session of the Conference of Parliamentary Committees of European Affairs of the Parliament of the European Union that national parliaments would be involved in the governance structure of the conference. The Council's mandate also explicitly provides for the involvement of national parliaments in the exercise. For example, paragraphs 6 and 10 provide that the full process and at all levels must take account of and involve different sectors, including national parliaments. Paragraph 14 states that national parliaments should be deployed at national and regional level in order to engage citizens. Paragraph 16 states that the event should be organised in the Member States in cooperation with the host Member State or region and that participation in the event is also planned by the representatives of national parliaments. The Belgian methodology will be in line with the Council mandate and will be based on cooperation with the federated entities. Contacts will soon be established to record the organisation of the work. The participation of national parliaments and states in the Conference on the Future of Europe is indeed extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that the corona pandemic is the cause of the delay. This will be part of it, but I do not need to explain to you that the main reason for delay is the disagreement over the Presidency of the Conference. It is very important that the national parliaments are involved. It'll be put on paper. I now hear that this will also be the case in practice. I am counting on you to keep us closely informed of how we can make our contribution in a systematic manner in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u67	The Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom provides for the establishment of a Partnership Council to ensure the proper implementation of that Convention and its additional agreements. This Council will have to meet at least once a year and may also take binding decisions when provided for in the Convention, make recommendations on its implementation and discuss any matter relating to the Convention or the Additional Agreements. The Partnership Council shall consist of representatives of the European Union and the United Kingdom at ministerial level. He is chaired by a member of the European Commission and a member of the British Government. These are respectively EU Commissioner Sefčovič and UK Minister Frost. They are in charge of the EU and UK delegations, respectively. The Council shall be assisted by a total of 19 committees and sub-committees to monitor the application of specific themes covered by the Convention. On the one hand, it is a general trade committee assisted by a team of specialised sub-committees, in particular on trade in goods, customs control, sanitary checks, VAT collection, technical trade barriers, etc. I can communicate all categories in writing. On the other hand, there are eight specialised fully-fledged committees, for example on aviation safety, aviation energy, road transport, social security coordination, fisheries, police and justice and UK participation in cooperation programmes. The Partnership Council may also decide to set up committees other than those already provided for in the Cooperation and Trade Agreement. These committees will be made up of representatives of the EU and the UK with adequate expertise on the issues covered. An official of the European Commission shall represent the European Commission in these committees and subcommittees. In principle, EU Member States have the possibility to delegate a representative to the Partnership Council or one of the aforementioned committees. That Member will then be part of the EU delegation as an observer and will not have the right to speak or vote. The position to be taken by the European Commission in the Partnership Council or its Committee on behalf of the EU will be established in advance at hierarchical level in the Council of the EU, in consultation with the Member States. Both the Commission and the Member States can propose that specific items be added to the agenda of meetings on behalf of the EU. This also happens after consultation in the Council. No reports shall be made public of such meetings. However, if the Partnership Council makes a joint declaration, or introduces settlements supplementing the Treaties, they shall be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You said you could give me an overview of the 19 different sub-committees, or specialised committees and working groups. I would very much like to receive that and thank you in advance. Of course, it's all very complicated. Like everyone else, I have a lot of questions about the concrete implementation of the Brexit agreement. Many things will still have to be decided, including in the Partnership Council and the underlying committees and working groups. I am thinking, for example, of the bilateral agreement on the mutual recognition of certain professions. It is very important for those who trade with the United Kingdom during their daily work to be able to monitor this closely. You say that the reports will not be public, but they will be the decisions that will be taken. I hope that the parties concerned will be able to count on the necessary transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u69	It is indeed of the utmost importance that everyone has access to the necessary medicines and vaccines. This provides a perspective on controlling this pandemic. The EU has an important role to play in the global distribution of vaccines and is making a lot of efforts at European, bilateral and multilateral level, not least through the COVAX facilities you mentioned. Many countries are deeply concerned about access to medicines and vaccines, particularly in developing countries. These concerns led Africa and India to submit in October a proposal to suspend a whole range of provisions in the TRIPS Convention. That Convention regulates the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights. A series of developing countries, like some major NGOs, supported this proposal. The European Union and its Member States shall be represented on the TRIPS Council by the European Commission. It opposes this proposed waver. Like the UK, the US, Japan, Mexico, Chile and Ecuador, the European Commission believes that the proposed waver is not the right instrument to achieve our common goal. The intellectual property system creates a framework for cooperation and the transfer of knowledge necessary to increase production capacity. A cooperation agreement with vaccine-producing companies and voluntary initiatives are therefore proposed. If these initiatives were not to have the desired result and indications were to emerge that intellectual property would constitute an obstacle to access to a vaccine, which has not been demonstrated so far, the European Commission would be ready to assist countries in implementing flexibility, which already exist within the TRIPS agreement such as compulsory licences created for this purpose. You are talking about my colleague's statement. I can tell you that during the meeting of the Council's Trade Committee, my services pointed out that the concerns of the countries concerned must be taken seriously. For the sake of clarity, this proposal was not raised at the level of the government by the DGE either. I will therefore not comment on this. Indeed, Belgium supports the Commission in the dialogue that is being conducted and which has been intensified, partly under the impetus of our country, with the initiators of the proposal, in order to better understand what obstacles they face and what is at the root of these obstacles. In this context, we are also looking forward to the initiatives of the newly appointed Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, the Nigerian doctor Ngozi. As former chairman of the board of directors of the Gavi, she brings valuable expertise that hopefully can provide an answer to polarisation in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm glad you're of a different opinion than the Secretary of State for Development Cooperation. I do not think that the opening up of patents will be a good idea at all. I think we have vaccines so quickly because of the existence of patents. Many companies often invest for years and also take the necessary financial risks to finance research that often does not lead to a positive result. If the results are positive, then I think those companies should also have the incentives to reap the benefits. The TRIPS Convention is an important framework at international level. I think it is very important to honour intellectual property rights. It may be possible to consider whether agreements can be reached in a public-private partnership, for example on the part financed by public funds and on whether these data can be used in other areas, but this discussion should be part of the overall reform of intellectual property rights. In terms of production capacity, too, it is sometimes said that patents only need to be released so that they can be produced everywhere. Well, I think that it has been shown on several occasions that specific material is also needed. Such mass production is not simply carried out with one machine, so it does not work with such high-tech vaccines. Thank you for sharing that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u71	Madam President, Minister, my question followed a determination made by the new US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, in January. Since the submission of this question, several recent analyses and positions seem to support this determination by the United States of America that there is a serious risk of genocide against this Uighur Muslim minority in the Xinjiang province of China. I am of course thinking of last week's vote in the House of Commons of Canada, the similar vote in the Tweede Kamer in our Dutch neighbours, the appeal of former Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt for the European Parliament to stand in the same direction, or of several legal positions on the part of lawyers such as Alison MacDonald in London or the International Human Rights Clinic at Stanford University in the United States. Madam Minister, has the Belgian Government already taken a position in this regard, on the basis of the information available? Has Belgium ever considered lodging a complaint about discrimination against Uighurs in China, on the basis of article 11 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination? This Committee of Experts of the United Nations is indeed competent to hear complaints, including from States such as Belgium, with a view to the elimination of racial discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, in view of the rapid development of the situation, I propose that you summarize my questions. In late January, during a hearing in the Senate, both Mike Pompeo and his successor, the new Secretary of State Antony Blinken, found that China was guilty of genocide against his Uighur minority. More recently, last week, the Canadian Parliament also found that the acts committed constituted a crime of genocide. So far, United Nations experts can only analyse the situation in Xinjiang through, inter alia, testimonies from liberated Uighurs or refugees. However, the United Nations claims to have sufficient evidence of the existence of camps. Recently, the BBC has broadcast testimonies from women about the ordeal in these camps: torture, gang rape, etc. Madam Minister, Belgium must continue to support all European and international initiatives on this issue in order to put an end to these unbearable acts. What analysis do you make of the use of the term genocide by the United States and Canada? To your knowledge, could other countries follow this statement? As far as the situation on the ground is concerned, do you have any new elements since our last debates in committee? Will new levers be raised at international or European level? How are our diplomatic exchanges with China evolving on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u73	Madam President, Minister, I had tabled my question in response to the BBC report, which also contains testimonies from various women who were systematically raped in the re-education camps set up by the Chinese government. There is also forced sterilisation. At European level, there are also voices to withdraw the recently concluded investment agreement with China. I asked you a few questions about this at the last committee meeting. Given the new elements, I have a few additional questions. Have you been able to take note of the BBC's report? Did you mention it to the Chinese ambassador? At the last committee meeting, you indicated that we could use the investment agreement with China as a lever to achieve the end of forced labour. Forced labour has no place in our trade relations. The aim was to cooperate with other European Member States and the European Parliament. Have you taken any further steps in this respect? Finally, we have already talked a few times about the European Magnitsky Act. Will you propose at the European Foreign Affairs Council to apply this mechanism also to persons responsible for such human rights violations in China?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u74	Madam Minister, I agree with the analysis of the previous speakers, which refers to the European Parliament and the resolution on this matter, as well as to Canada and the Netherlands, who condemn what is happening in Xinjiang in the field of genocide. The European Parliament's resolution also stated that responsibility for the forced labour, repression and mass detention of Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang, as well as other human rights violations, should be subject to sanctions against Chinese officials and institutions. What was your position on this at last week's European Council? Was there any mention of sanctions against Chinese officials and institutions? Will sanctions be imposed? If so, which would they be, probably under the Magnitsky Act? Is the European Union in the process of drawing up the list? In the light of the evolutions of what other countries are beginning to do, I wondered, like Mrs Reynaert, how we should look at the EU-China investment agreement. Should we not first call for conditions for progress on human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u75	First of all, I would like to say that I fully share your concerns about the human rights situation in Xinjiang and the fate of the Uighurs. This is a serious issue on which we have already had the opportunity to express ourselves formally on several occasions, and the recent BBC report relays horrifying testimonies of Uighur women who have been raped and tortured in so-called "rehabilitation" camps. These chilling testimonies are consistent with the reports of human rights organisations that also report unjustifiable practices against Uighur populations. Belgium regularly deals with this situation with the Chinese authorities both bilaterally, as was still the case a few days ago, and within the framework of the European Union and the relevant multilateral institutions. As far as the EU-China comprehensive agreement on investment is concerned, we must remain vigilant with regard to China's commitment to constantly making efforts to ratify the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, including in the field of forced labour. We are following this closely and I have instructed the posts concerned to pay particular attention to this. Belgium will be invited to formally define its position on this agreement when it is likely to be submitted to the European Council for approval in the first half of 2022. The formalisation of this position will be done in consultation with stakeholders through the DGE coordination. At our country's explicit request, the issue was also on the agenda of the Trade Committee of 12 February 2021, with Belgian concerns shared by several EU Member States. The EU also urges China to comply with this commitment, most recently on 8 February 2021 by the High Representatives of the European External Action Service. The EU is also working on a legislative initiative that provides for a binding duty of care for companies which, among other things, should lead to European companies eliminating forced labour from their supply chain. With regard to the classification of acts committed against Uighur populations in Xinjiang, if there is no gradation in suffering, the use of either term to qualify such violence has different legal implications that fall within the jurisdiction of the courts and tribunals. It is up to us to support the mechanisms for establishing facts relating to alleged violations of international law and, in this context, we have a responsibility for prevention. In particular, it is essential that independent experts have free access to the Xinjiang region to report on the situation. Belgium will continue to support initiatives in this regard. With regard to the ICC, as you know, as China is not a party to the Rome Statute, the ICC is not competent for the acts committed on Chinese territory. The Committee against Racial Discrimination, which monitors compliance with the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, has already expressed its views on the situation in Xinjiang and made a number of recommendations. Our country has urged China, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to follow these recommendations. Be assured that Belgium will continue to monitor this issue closely at all levels, including at European level. It stands ready to consider all available instruments. This issue was not on the agenda of the European Council of 25 and 26 February. This does not, of course, prevent further discussions. The United States, for its part, has its own instruments and policies towards China which differ from those of the European Union and Belgium. Finally, I will be attentive to the discussions that will take place in this Parliament on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u76	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer and, above all, for your voluntarism, since you have asked your services to pay even more attention to this important issue and have placed this item on the European agenda. When we look at all the documents that have been coming to us for several months about these "rehabilitation" camps, where more than a million people belonging to this Uighur Muslim minority are arbitrarily detained, which we are going through the evidence of forced labour, which we are looking at BBC reports of systematic rapes against women who are locked in them, which we see the forced separations of their parents' children in order to "re-educate" them in kinds of orphanages within the Han ethnic group – which is the majority in China – I consider it necessary to break the European silence with regard to the very serious persecutions against the Uighur minority. I would therefore like to join you when you say that we need to resort to the few international instruments that we have left, so that justice can be done. With regard to the characterization of the crime of genocide, it would be ideal for the International Criminal Court (ICC) to be able to decide. However, as you have pointed out with pragmatism, China unfortunately did not accept the jurisdiction of the ICC in The Hague. In the current state of international law, therefore, it is very unlikely that a determination will be made there, even if there are some procedural exceptions. This does not, of course, prevent each State party to the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, of which China and Belgium are members, from initiating a determination, not just to punish, but also and above all to prevent any serious risk of genocide. It is also the interpretation given by the United Nations International Court of Justice to its judgement on Bosnia and Herzegovina against Serbia and Montenegro, by asking each State to be able to bear witness to an obligation of prevention and a duty to act which is its corollary. It is essential that at the very moment when a State – for example, Belgium – becomes aware of a serious risk of committing genocide, we can mobilise means that can have a deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answer. The repression of the Uighur population in China is unworthy and unbearable. The facts reported in a recent BBC report go beyond understanding. Too many testimonies, including from the United Nations, attest to the existence of camps and forced labour. We must use all levers to stop these violations of fundamental rights. I've been doing this for months here in committee. I will continue to speak out against these unbearable acts. I am reassured to hear, Madam Minister, that it is also your gaze, that of Belgium, that of the Union. The Uighurs must know that we will not close our eyes to the abuses and the confinement of a million of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with my colleagues. We've seen the BBC's reportage. These human rights violations are very serious. We need to think very carefully about what instrument we can use when. We have already discussed a few, such as the investment agreement and the extradition treaty at Belgian level. At European level, perhaps we will have the legislation on compulsory care, and hopefully also at Belgian level. It is very important to see which instrument is most effective to act on these issues. Here it is important to look at the larger picture. I look forward to the hearings we will be holding with the Chamber on this subject. A number of colleagues have tabled a resolution on this, so I look forward to further discussion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Your concern in this regard is also very clear. This is something that lives worldwide: the indignation is global, all over the world. I believe there will be many more resolutions, in addition to the resolution on which we will vote. The Netherlands has set the pace at European level and others will follow in this direction, because it is reprehensible what is happening there. We must respond with all our strength to that. You mentioned a number of instruments such as the binding duty of care. However, we must also consider the pre-ratification of ILO resolutions or conventions on forced labour, which we must impose on China in advance before continuing with investment agreements. We hope that an independent investigation can be carried out, but I fear that China will not allow that and that it will be very difficult to find evidence. That is a very big challenge. That is why I am putting a lot of pressure on those sanctions that also applied to Belarus and Russia itself. We are talking about violations that are even more serious and global, so to speak. I hope that it will be discussed at the next Foreign Affairs Council in order to draw up a list of officials and institutes responsible for this serious form of widespread abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Samyn's 55013511C has been postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Jadin's 55013564C and 55013568C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u81	Minister, since the situation has changed greatly since my first question on this subject was tabled, I propose to summarize my various questions. On the night of January 31st to February 1st, a military coup was carried out in Burma. The head of government, Aung San Suu Kyi, and President Win Myint were arrested, as were many other political leaders and civilians. All over the world, the same condemnations have been heard as a result of this event. You yourself have affirmed Belgium's concern after this coup d'état "to undermine democracy". The European Union, through the voice of the President of the Council, also reacted, calling on the military to release all those who were unlawfully arrested and to respect the outcome of the elections and restore a democratic process. Since then, monster demonstrations have followed each other, heavily repressed, sometimes with live bullets. Several protesters lost their lives this weekend again. Madam Minister, at last week's Foreign Ministers' meeting, the European Union called for a de-escalation of the crisis, the immediate end of the state of emergency, the restoration of the legitimate civilian government and the opening of the newly elected Parliament. In order to achieve that, she said that she was ready to adopt sanctions. How will this be translated? In the meantime, a first sanction has been decided, namely the end of financial support for the government's reform agenda. What other sanctions could be imposed and within what time frame? It goes without saying that they will have to avoid touching local populations at all costs. How can we ensure that these sanctions have a real impact on the military junta? With regard to the situation on the spot, do you have any further information on its development? Among other things, there are many acts of intimidation. Do you know more about this? Will the High Representative of the European Union Josep Borrel have an active role to play in this matter, for example through an on-site visit? What about our nationals in this country? How many of them are there? What do you know about their situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u82	Minister, I will also summarize my two questions on the same subject. This hope of democratic transition, born in 2011, was finally aborted at the beginning of this year. We are very worried about this coup. Mr. De Maegd recalled the position taken by our country. The United States also positioned itself, with the voice of its new President Joe Biden, announcing sanctions against the putschists. The international coalition also wants to increase pressure on the Burmese military. Minister, are the relations we had at the diplomatic level before this putsch still in existence? How do they build themselves (...) Because of sound problems, I refer to the questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u83	Madam President, Myanmar has turned into a bloody crackdown this weekend and the increasingly deadly violence against pro-democracy protesters is unacceptable and must be stopped immediately. The right of the Burmese people to demonstrate peacefully must be respected. In addition, I welcome the very courageous and committed speech of the former Ambassador of Myanmar to the United Nations. As you know, I immediately condemned this coup d'état, which suspends a democratic transition initiated in 2011 with great hope. Myanmar still faces major problems, such as the alarming humanitarian situation of the Rohingya people or the armed conflict with certain minorities. Research – already complex – into a lasting resolution of this crisis will certainly not be facilitated by these latest developments. Our embassy in Bangkok, which covers Myanmar, regularly reports to me on developments since 1 February. A meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations is scheduled for today, and a meeting of the Security Council could be held this week. We encourage the members of the European Union of the Council to take such an initiative. I have asked that he be contacted with the European representatives in the Council in order to support it. In the main cities of the country, there are still many demonstrations for democracy. Military presence in the streets has been increased and repression intensified, which has unfortunately led to several deaths. There are also many arrests to be regretted. These events have led to reactions from all over the world, mainly from countries in the region. China remained cautious. Without condemning the coup d'état, it called for dialogue between the various parties. India, too, has been reluctant, but has expressed its concern and its support for democracy and the transition process, and has indicated that it is keeping a close eye on the situation. Bangladesh, the country most affected by the Rohingya crisis, expressed its concern at the compliance by the Myanmar authorities with their commitments to initiate a repatriation process for the Rohingya. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), an organisation to which Myanmar belongs and which traditionally defends the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of its members, reiterates its commitment to democracy in a declaration. In a press statement, the United Nations Security Council expressed its deep concern at the announcement of the state of emergency and the arrest of several leaders. The G7 also made a statement to that effect. The new Biden administration strongly condemned the coup d'état and adopted new sanctions against army leaders, as did the United Kingdom. It is important that this international pressure continues. The European Union has a role to play. On 1 February, I condemned the military coup and stressed the importance of a European response. A statement by the High Representative Borrell on behalf of the 27 Member States was promptly circulated. It calls for the immediate and unconditional release of those arrested, respect for the rule of law, the end of the state of emergency, respect for the results of the November 2020 elections and the restoration of the civilian government. These elements are also reflected in the Foreign Affairs Council conclusions of 22 February when Myanmar was on the agenda. The question of possible sanctions and the revision of the assistance programmes so that they do not benefit the military are analysed by the High Representative Borrell as well as by the Commission. The Council conclusions also confirm the European Union's support for civil society, call for coordination with other international actors and recall the worrying situation of the Rohingya. These conclusions also emphasize strong engagement with civil society and human rights defenders. As regards the request to call on the Ambassador of Myanmar, I can tell you that the accreditation procedure for the new ambassador, who was to come to Belgium at the beginning of this year, has been interrupted by the Burmese authorities. As far as our cooperation with Myanmar is concerned, I would remind you that we do not currently have a direct assistance programme with that country. Our assistance is therefore mainly provided through the financing of the general resources of international institutions. Our bilateral economic relations with Myanmar are limited, although they seemed to increase over the last decade. Belgian companies have shown interest in the country and some economic missions, organized by our Regions, have visited Myanmar. The unstable political climate following the coup could encourage our companies to stand back. Finally, regarding the presence of Belgian compatriots in Myanmar, we have not had to face any request for repatriation. Our embassy in Bangkok, whose jurisdiction extends to Myanmar, from the beginning of the crisis sent a message to all Belgians present in Myanmar urging them to be cautious and reminding them of the emergency telephone numbers, that of our consular section in Bangkok, but also and above all that of our Honorary Consul in Rangoon and that of the Embassy of France in Myanmar, who agreed to take over the security of our compatriots. We continue to monitor the situation closely and to help provide the necessary answers. It is only through the restoration of democracy that the major challenges facing Myanmar, whether humanitarian, political, security or development, can be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In 2010, 11 years ago, I was in Myanmar. Aung San Suu Kyi was still under house arrest. I was able to get in touch with a very warm people. In the ten years that followed, we saw the military junta open to civil society and democracy, before this recent volte-face of the army, which now threatens the people who are trying to force their destiny. I believe that international pressure must be firm on the military junta in order to allow for the earliest possible return of democracy in that country. I am counting on you to introduce him to the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also want to tell you that what is happening is obviously a rough blow for this hope that was born with the transition, this hope of democratic transition. It is a hard blow for the population in the first place, which risks once again being imposed situations of restrictions of freedoms, including freedom of expression. It is important that we can play our full role within the international community in order to maintain maximum pressure on the current situation in Burma.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u86	Madam Minister, I agree with what my colleagues have said. We need to keep pushing. It is very striking that people who fight for democracy put this above their own security. The courage they show to fight for democracy deserves international support. They deserve a heart-to-heart. The signals you have given immediately condemn on Twitter and say that there will be consequences are good signals. That is important for the people to continue to fight for that democracy. We must also support them and civil society in this fight. We must take the same measures as for Belarus. We must also impose sanctions where possible. We must continue at the same pace from the European Union. I hope that you will put it on the agenda in this way, both internationally and on that of the Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u87	In 2019, according to the French-speaking public broadcaster, there was a file against Mr.Fonntinoy about a suspicion of corruption in a re-sale of SNCB's real estate. In 2019 the embassy building in the American capital Washington was also put for sale. The building was sold for $23 million. This project was according to De Standaard by Mr. Jean-Claude Fontinoy. Mr Fontinoy worked for a long time at Foreign Affairs, so he was responsible for a whole bunch of (real estate) projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken a good look at the press articles you are referring to. I didn't get any more information. I can confirm to you that the person cited is not a member of my firm and no longer has a position in a firm since December 1, 2019. Nor am I aware of any other ongoing investigations into this person. As far as the Libyan funds are concerned, since I joined the Foreign Office, I have not been informed by members of the department of any element that could have led me to warn the public prosecutor. The King's Attorney of Liège hasn't contacted my cabinet. At the level of administration, I have not been reported about a contact on his part. Also, since March 2020 there have been no further searches or hearings at the Ministry following the investigation. This is information I requested from the departments. As you know, no solution has been found to the dispute concerning the release of the Libyan funds referred to in the newspaper article. For your question on what will happen to interest on these funds, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Finance. I would remind you that the role of Foreign Affairs in matters relating to the release of funds frozen under the United Nations resolution is limited to that of intermediary between the relevant Minister of Finance and the United Nations Sanctions Committee, through our permanent representation in New York. The notification to the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations was made by sending a letter from the Minister of Finance on 3 February 2021. The Sanctions Committee replied on 12 February that Belgium's request did not meet the conditions set out in Resolution 1970 of 2011. I would like to refer you to my colleague from Finance for more information. Finally, in response to questions about GRECO's recommendations, they are currently being examined by various competent administrations and with regard to what will be applicable to cabinets, as provided for in the Government Agreement and the strategic units of the Prime Minister and the Minister in charge of Institutional Reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u89	I thank the Minister for her clarifications. This information is indeed particularly intriguing, even if nothing to date is proven. There were no convictions. It is time and perhaps even urgent to incorporate GRECO's recommendations, which fell a little over a year ago (in January 2020) and which call on our country to impose much stricter rules on the integrity of members of ministerial cabinets. I believe that this case raises the need for guidance on the provision of gifts from outside lobbying and third parties. I hope that we will be able to support, also since Parliament, the application of these recommendations to these various ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u90	I can only agree with Mr Cogolati. I only missed in your answer whether an internal investigation has been initiated into any other malpractice by the person in question. It is also said that, for example, he would have been involved in the sale of the Belgian embassy in Washington. I haven't heard you say anything about that, but I may find out later than I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u91	Question No 55013756C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u92	Madam President, Madam Minister, as we all know, on 30 December the European Union and China reached an agreement on investment. The European Commissioner in charge, who was interviewed by this committee last week, welcomed this, saying that it "will give European companies a boost on one of the world's most important and dynamic markets". As far as I am concerned, as my colleagues have just testified, I also note that, at the same time, the situation of the Uighurs is worsening. Canada gave up negotiating a free trade agreement with China before, in mid-January, banning imports from Xinjiang province and punishing firms involved in forced labour, which was also done by the United Kingdom. You yourself have raised a number of concerns about this agreement and, more specifically, about China's ratification and implementation of the International Labour Organization conventions, in particular the one on forced labour. On this point, the lack of ambition is, it is true, obvious, since China's commitment is non-binding. More broadly, too much economic dependence on China also raises the question of our strategic autonomy, to which the European Union therefore seems to favour commercial interests. Madam Minister, what response has the Commission given to the "major concerns" you have expressed on behalf of our country in a very legitimate way? Should the issue of human rights not be associated with the follow-up to the treaty if it is effectively ratified? In your view, should Belgium plead in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in 2019 the European Union defined China as "a strategic partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival". Belgium supports this approach, which reveals the various facets of our relationship with China. The question of respect for the rule of law and human rights is central to our relations, and unjustifiable practices against Uighur populations and initiatives to undermine democracy in Hong Kong are, among other things, the subject of our country's regular approach to both the Chinese authorities and multilateral fora. At the economic level, our relations with China are also in the context of a structurally negative trade balance for Belgium. Better access to the Chinese market and a level playing field for our companies are therefore among our business priorities. During my meeting with Commissioner Dombrovskis on 2 February 2021, he defended the EU-China investment agreement and placed it in a broader context. This investment agreement is just one of our instruments in our relations with China and must be complemented by other autonomous measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u94	I have taken this opportunity to convey to him the serious concerns of the Belgians regarding this agreement, in particular with regard to the implementation of Chinese commitments on labour standards, the practical application of European concessions in the field of renewable energy and the lack of investment protection in the agreement. Commissioner Dombrovskis has come back to some of the Belgian points of attention. As regards the level playing field, it first pointed to the asymmetry in the agreement, with China granting more concessions to market access than the European Union. As regards the rules of the right to work, the Commissioner recalled that even after ratification of the agreement, the European Union will always have the levers to do so. In particular, he referred to the trade agreement with South Korea and the panel of experts confirming that South Korea's commitments to comply with core labour law standards were legally binding. With regard to investment protection, the Commissioner replied that the Commission had obtained a clear commitment that negotiations would be concluded. It is important for us that the efforts undertaken produce real results. Belgium will therefore continue to follow up on these issues and to insist on compliance with the commitments made. For our investment to China in times of crisis, data on outward direct and foreign investment flows to China are not yet available from the National Bank of Belgium (NBB).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u95	Madam Minister, I share your point of view, which you have defended with the European Union with relevant arguments. It is gratifying that certain points have been the subject of some changes, as I believe this should be the case for all types of relations we have. It is essential to ensure compliance with labour law standards, respect for trade balances and the opportunities that we can offer our businesses by entering into new agreements. It goes without saying that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the relevant international treaties must be an integral part of the European Union's relations, including with China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u96	I also thank the minister for her answers. I agree with him, and I believe that China is one of the major economic, commercial and cultural challenges facing Europeans in this century. We must therefore remain as vigilant as possible in order to preserve our system of values and our rule of law. As the President of the German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA) in Hamburg, quoted recently in Le Monde, said, the European Union should not focus its interests on its values or short-term economic gains on strategic long-term independence. In short, let us keep absolute vigilance in a balanced relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u97	Dear colleague, first of all, I can inform you that the mayor of Woluwe-Saint-Pierre informed the management of the protocol of the SPF Foreign Affairs in March 2020 of the project to build a building of 21 apartments by the Embassy of China. As you know, by virtue of the division of powers between the federal and the federated entities, the application for the urban planning permit falls within the exclusive competence of the Brussels-Capital Region. This position was also communicated to a representative of the committee of residents who had contacted the Department of Foreign Affairs. In view of the above, this issue was therefore not raised in the contacts between my administration and the Chinese Embassy. The Department of Foreign Affairs has also not had any contacts on this subject with the services of the Secretary of State for Urbanism of the Brussels Region. Questions relating to the status and security of the building are also premature. As the building has not yet been built, no application has been submitted at this stage by the Chinese Embassy. With regard to gifts that may be given by foreign embassies, I would like to inform you that FPS Foreign Affairs officers are required to comply with the provisions of the vade mecum integrity and ethics, which is based on the ethical framework of federal public servants. As far as federated entities are concerned, I invite you to question the competent levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u98	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u99	Building more strategic autonomy and resilience and the success of an ecological and digital transition together constitute three fundamental yards that will further shape the European Union as an integration and cooperation project. Each of these three practices will have a very broad cross-cutting impact on governance, economy and society. The search for more autonomy and resilience is about production and supply lines, and more than that. Belgium agrees that a high degree of economic, industrial and technological autonomy and resilience must go hand in hand with the maintenance of an open economy. They will also have to go together with an economic world order that is not only open, but also socially and ecologically better regulated, so that the relevant international conventions are better enforced and the playing field for competition between open economies becomes more equal. Autonomy and resilience in an open economy require Europe to remain economically competitive, while also pursuing high economic and social standards. This will require a complex policy, balanced between the various measures. The further development, production and control of key technologies will be important. The non-paper to which you refer was thoroughly studied together with other similar documents under coordination in DGE format. Although it contains interesting elements, it was then decided at DGE level that Belgium would not endorse this document, since the balances, elements and wordings are not fully consistent with where Belgium wants to place them and the document is not open to amendment. Belgium is, of course, prepared to continue constructive consultations with the EU Member States which do endorse this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u100	Madam Minister, there is a good debate under way in the Committee on Energy on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u101	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u102	Texts are coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u103	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I think we're on the same page. I am very pleased that you are also advocating open strategic autonomy. That's very important. Strategic autonomy must not be the pretext for protectionism. That's definitely a good element. It is a pity, however, that we do not show this by supporting the non-paper of Denmark and the Netherlands. I hope, then, that you will always advocate open strategic autonomy in the European Council, including in those words.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u104	Mr De Vriendt is not present for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u105	If you don't mind, I will answer in both languages, since the questions were asked by Dutch- and French-speaking colleagues. Anyway, you're interested in the whole subject. The trial of Paul Rusesabagina began on 17 February. It must be noted that the assurances given to us as to its success are not verified. Since the beginning of September 2020, the Foreign Affairs departments in Kigali, as well as in Brussels, have been following closely the situation of Mr Rusesabagina, a Belgian citizen. He has full consular assistance. For example, representatives of our embassy in Kigali were able to carry out four consular visits to him. They were also able to talk to him by telephone three times, given the local health situation associated with the covid-19 pandemic. We also have regular contact here in Brussels with the family of Mr Paul Rusesabagina and their Belgian lawyer. In Kigali there are also frequent contacts between our embassy and the Rwandan lawyer. On 4 February 2021, I indeed discussed the situation of Mr Paul Rusesabagina with my Rwandan counterpart, Mr Vincent Biruta. During this interview, I was able to insist once again on a fair, transparent and fair trial for Mr Paul Rusesabagina. Belgium expects full respect for the rights of the defence, including the right to have the time and means necessary to prepare the defence. Minister Biruta agreed that this is also an important point for Rwanda. This meeting was preceded and followed by several contacts both in Brussels with the Ambassador of Rwanda and in Kigali with the Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as with the Minister of Justice. The message here is unambiguous: the rights of the defence and a fair and transparent trial must be guaranteed. I should also like to inform you that Belgium has submitted an application for access by Mr Rusesabagina's Belgian lawyer to his client under the Belgian procedure under way in this case. The Rwandan authorities refused to allow him to act in Rwanda in the context of the Rwandan procedure. This request is being processed in Kigali. We remind her with insistence. Recent statements, in an interview with Rwanda's Minister of Justice, Mr. Bunsingye, indicate that respect for the rights of the defence, including respect for the confidentiality of documents exchanged between Paul Rusesabagina and his lawyer, is not ensured. That is something that I have particularly stressed. In view of these public statements, which indicate that Paul Rusesabagina could not be in a position to prepare his defence in accordance with the rules that we are entitled to expect, I hope that the Rwandan authorities will make every effort and without delay to remedy this situation, if not already done. It would be inexplicable if this were not taken into account in his trial. I would also like to reiterate that the Rwandan authorities are responsible for the strict observance of the principles of a fair, fair and transparent trial. This cannot be the case when the right to confidential exchanges with lawyers is not respected or when the defence has not had the time to prepare. I would like to reiterate that the security of Mr. Paul Rusesabagina is the responsibility of the Rwandan authorities. And I am echoing his family's concerns in this regard. The same applies to his state of health, which I also strongly stressed in my meeting with Minister Biruta. Mr. Paul Rusesabagina enjoys permanent residence in the United States, but does not have American nationality. I confirm that we are in regular contact with the American authorities. Finally, with regard to the other questions on the international arrest warrant and other elements of the judicial procedure, I invite you to question the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u106	Minister, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for this very strong and clear response and for the signal sent to the Government of Rwanda. Today it appears that the life of Paul Rusesabagina, who has Belgian nationality, who is one of our fellow citizens, is in danger; it is his family that tells us so. We must therefore react and question Parliament. But I am particularly reassured to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and therefore from the Belgian Government that Belgium is asking very clearly for the Belgian lawyer's access to Rwanda and for the strictest respect for the principles of a fair trial. These are basic principles, they are fundamental freedoms. It is out of the question that a third State can afford to clear itself completely from these rules in force when it is one of our citizens. I hear that the rights of the defence are not respected. I recall that according to the evidence available today, there have been no international arrest warrants. The arrest, according to Human Rights Watch, is like kidnapping, enforced disappearance, and we cannot accept it. I will also ask our Minister of Justice, but I want Belgium to say things very frankly and very clearly in Rwanda. It is out of the question that Rwanda should allow itself to violate in this way the most fundamental right of this Belgian citizen to a fair and just trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u107	Question No 55013939C by Georges Dallemagne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u108	Madam President, Madam Minister, I recently asked you, through a written question, about the maintenance and repair of the terminals along the border between Belgium and France. I then stressed the historical value of these pillars decorated with the two-headed Austrian eagle, French lilies or even the letters "N" and "F'', which, subject to the wear of time, traffic and theft, tend to disappear. In my question about the possibilities of maintaining and restoring the Belgian-French border terminals, you referred to the proposal made by Belgium in 2014 to establish a permanent border commission, in response to which France suggested the establishment of a permanent administrative commission, officially responsible for examining issues relating to the demarcation of the border - a commission whose mandate "would not be limited to the preservation and maintenance of the borders but would also ensure, on a permanent basis, the work of delimitation and preservation of the borders and the resolution of disagreements on the border line. Minister, your answer revealed your recognition of the historic value of the border pillars. Also, we thank you for that. In addition, it stressed the need to "define the mandate of the Standing Committee, as proposed by France, in order, in particular, to ensure that Articles 7 and 167 of the Belgian Constitution relating to the territorial limits of the State are always respected". Minister, have there been any initiatives and contacts with French officials to that end? In what time frame can we expect progress on this issue? Can you inform us about the maintenance and repair of the terminals adjacent to the common border with our other neighbouring countries – and, in particular, with the Benelux countries? Has an ad hoc committee been set up for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u109	Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. I confirm that the question of the mandate of a border commission has already been discussed with France in a joint working group. There are ongoing consultations between our two countries, on the one hand, and between the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Finance, on the other, which is competent for the cadastral aspects. The management of border crossings has not yet been discussed in detail in the Franco-Belgian working group, but this issue can be put on the agenda of a forthcoming meeting to be organised by France. As regards the maintenance and repair of border terminals with our other neighbouring countries, the situation can be described as follows. For the Netherlands, since 1850, several standing committees have been established at the provincial level to maintain and maintain boundaries along the boundary. These committees hold annual meetings. For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in 1850 a regulation on the maintenance of the demarcation signs placed on the Belgian-Luxembourg border was adopted. On the Belgian side, the neighbouring municipalities are responsible for verifying the state of the terminals. It is up to the province of Luxembourg and the competent administration in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to organise tenders for repairs. For Germany, a standing committee to maintain and maintain the boundaries along the boundary has met every five years since 1960. The legal basis for this cooperation is a 1929 Belgo-German agreement and a 1960 Belgian-German protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u110	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. We can welcome the progress, sometimes significant, made in the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany. You will inform us that, in the near future, a consultation will be organised at the initiative of France, during which the maintenance of these pillars will be put on the agenda. I am counting on you to ensure that these deadlines are met and that the point is actually addressed. We will be able to see, also with France, significant progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u111	Madam Minister, I have just been interviewing you about Belgium's attitude to the UN resolution which welcomes the entry into force of the nuclear ban treaty and calls on all countries to sign it. You replied that the treaty is not the right instrument for achieving nuclear disarmament because no country with nuclear weapons has joined the treaty, just as our NATO counterparts have. Nor would the prohibition treaty contain a mechanism to implement or control the commitments of the participating countries. You also claimed that it would not be compatible with our membership of NATO and with the Non-Proliferation Treaty. In the meantime, a new and comprehensive study of the legal literature on this subject, carried out on behalf of the German Bundestag, shows that the prohibition treaty is not only compatible with the non-proliferation treaty but even strengthens it and implements Article VI thereof, which encourages the participating parties to engage in nuclear disarmament. Furthermore, this study shows that the Convention not only integrates but even strengthens the control mechanisms of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Our membership of NATO and even the deployment of foreign nuclear weapons on our territory are not insurmountable problems for signing and ratifying the Treaty. In other words, this study confirms the position of the Belgian peace movement shared by the Labour Party. Madam Minister, will you take the conclusions of this study into account when determining the government's official position on the nuclear weapons ban treaty? Will you withdraw Belgium from the minority group of states that continue to approve the use of nuclear weapons of mass destruction and finally sign the ban treaty? If not, what credibility does this government still have on the international stage as a self-proclaimed supporter of nuclear disarmament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u112	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, we are aware of the study of the Bundestag, which deals with a legal issue. Moreover, the author expressly states that the study should not be construed as a plea for German accession to the nuclear weapons ban treaty. The Belgian attitude is based on the conviction that nuclear disarmament must take place on the basis of viable, verifiable and credible agreements. Unilateral and unverified disarmament does not help our security. This realistic attitude is inspired by the realization that the destructive force of nuclear weapons is without equal. Nuclear disarmament therefore requires a careful approach. The critical comments we make on the nuclear weapons ban treaty are based on political and arms control considerations, not on legal considerations. Our substantive arguments relate, among other things, to the fact that the nuclear weapons ban treaty does not oblige its members to accede to the latest verification standard of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This standard was developed on the basis of the observation that a less stringent standard does not allow sufficient control to detect clandestine nuclear programmes. It is a serious gap if a treaty banning nuclear weapons does not oblige its members to join the latest and most stringent verification standards, especially in the light of our experience with secret nuclear weapons programmes such as Iran and North Korea. The fact that the entry into the nuclear test-stop treaty is not mandatory for the members of the TPNW is also a serious gap. Indeed, only the CTBT has a verification system to check respect for the prohibition of nuclear testing. The political incompatibility of TPNW and NATO membership is crystal clear. In December 2020, NATO formally confirmed its united position vis-à-vis the TPNW. The Belgian attitude is therefore in perfect harmony with the attitude of all NATO members. Even within the EU, Belgium is not part of a minority group. Only a small minority of EU Member States have ratified the TPNW. For Belgium, a world without nuclear weapons has long and unequivocally been the objective. Belgium will continue its efforts towards nuclear disarmament on the basis of legally binding agreements which will ensure irreversible and verifiable reductions. I suppose our goal is the same, but the way to achieve it is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u113	I expected this answer, Madam Secretary. We cannot, of course, play a well-nietes game on the basis of a legal argument. I understand clearly that it has little to do with legal aspects, but that it is simply a purely political position. However, legal arguments have been used to claim that the prohibition treaty would not be compatible with the non-proliferation treaty. We are also sticking to that position, which is confirmed by many experts and academics. The government cannot, on the one hand, support the non-proliferation treaty and, on the other hand, refuse to accede to the nuclear ban treaty, which once again strengthens and complements the non-proliferation treaty by implementing Article 6. You cannot say, on the one hand, that our country is striving for a world without nuclear weapons, while, on the other hand, it remains in line with the minority of Member States that refuse to sign the ban treaty within the United Nations and do not even regard it as a positive development. We believe that this is an unsustainable state of affairs which seriously hypothesizes the credibility of our country as a supporter of nuclear disarmament. The PVDA reiterates and stresses the need for the government to rectify this situation as soon as possible. We will continue to emphasise and follow up this important issue and continue to question you on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u114	Madam President, Madam Minister, I do not remind you of the experience of the 14 000 to 20 000 Métis children born under the Belgian colonial regime in Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi. You know this perfectly. You also know that on April 4, 2019, in plenary session, the Prime Minister presented Belgium's official apology to the Métis from colonization and their families for "the injustices and suffering they have suffered". It responded to one of the recommendations of the resolution adopted by the House in March 2018. Recently, I asked the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Science Policy about the follow-up to this resolution. However, it appears that some points still deserve further clarification on your part, especially since the government agreement provides for the implementation of the text. Madam Minister, according to your colleague in Science Policy, it appears that CegeSoma has not yet received a specific request to conduct historical research on what is provided for in Article 6 of the resolution, in particular on the role of civil or religious authorities. What about the measures taken to secure the funding promised by the FPS Foreign Affairs for this historical research component? What measures were being taken to address the problem of birth certificates, which, because of the wanderings of the colonial administration at the time, were sometimes absent or distorted, which still had consequences for the lives of the individuals concerned in a rather concrete way? Finally, have any contacts with your respective colleagues been made in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u115	Madam Chair, Mr.Ben Achour, following the adoption of the Métis resolution, a working group was established and a research project was put in place. The working group composed of representatives of Métis associations, the General Archives of the Kingdom and the relevant cabinets decided that the study of the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization would be carried out in two successive phases. The first phase of the project, which consists of the creation of a database of individual, family and collective journeys of the Métis from colonization, began on September 1, 2019 under the joint direction of the SPF Foreign Affairs, which funds the research to the tune of 400,000 euros in four years and the State Archives. This first phase of research should also prepare and facilitate the second phase, namely a detailed historical research on the role of civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the way the Métis were treated in the colonial era in the Belgian Congo and in the Ruanda-Urundi. As stated by Secretary of State Dermine in the Committee on Mobility, contacts are under way between the firms concerned to find the means necessary to finance the second phase. Although, like any budget work, it still takes a little time, the aim is to be able to achieve it fairly quickly. As for the absence of a formal request from the state archives or the Cegesoma to conduct historical research, this question certainly depends on funding. For further details, I invite you to re-examine the Secretary of State, even if it may take some patience, as long as the work is done. I am well aware that the issue of birth certificates is a priority for the people concerned and that it must be resolved. As he stated in the Justice Committee on January 13, the Minister of Justice began an analysis of this issue. For a new state of affairs on this matter, which falls within his competence, he will have to be returned to him. So you have a few questions to ask the various ministers based on the evolution of the issues. Generally speaking, the firms concerned are in regular contact with each other on these matters, but also with the Métis associations. For example, at the initiative of my firm, a meeting was held on 11 February between the various competent firms and the associations. The meeting provided an opportunity to review the various requests for the resolution and to prepare a joint assessment of its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u116	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear answers. The implementation of this resolution is the responsibility of several ministers. I will continue to address them with great interest and pleasure if this can help to ensure proper coordination and keep the fire on in each.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u117	Madam President, Madam Minister, it seems to me that there have never been as many questions about the "African" archives as in this Parliament, to various ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u118	Madam President, Mr Delizée, discussions with the State Security with a view to declassifying colonial archives held in the FPS Foreign Affairs continued at the end of 2020 between the Foreign Affairs and State Security departments. Contacts are also made between my office and that of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Van Quickenborne. So far, these discussions have not led to concrete solutions for the declassification of classified documents in colonial archives. The problem of declassification does not concern the African archives alone and will have to be the subject of global solutions. The government has also committed itself to a "legal regime to declassify, after some time, documents classified in compliance with international agreements and the protection of the confidentiality of sources". In the meantime, I recommend that the researchers of the special commission on the colonial past apply for a security clearance from the National Security Agency (NSA) in order to ensure smooth access to the funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, my attention has been alerted by the fact that France has declassified its archives in Rwanda and has opened them to a number of researchers, historians and citizens. In this case, these are archives dating back more than sixty years. I think the debate is still open, and unfortunately I hear that there is no concrete solution yet. I asked the Minister of Justice a question about the need for legislation to improve the organization of the declassification of state archives, and I agree with his conclusion. There may need to be a legislative initiative in this regard, as reflected in the hearing day held on 19 October. This day's speakers also referred to legislation to declassify the archives that it is unnecessary to keep in a classified manner. Above all, there is the question of access, not just for the work of the special commission. Of course, the special committee is interested in the subject, but in a much wider and more open way. State Security has other objectives than historical research and scientific research, which are aimed at the transparency, analysis and enhancement of archives. My conclusion would be that the ancient colonial archives have witnessed colonization, and I believe that, in the current debate on decolonization, declassification could be a useful tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u120	Mr President, Minister, there are conventions on different groups in vulnerable positions, women, people with disabilities, children and minorities, but there are no conventions on older people and age discrimination. Unia's report, which was explained to us in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, shows that the corona crisis has pushed older people into very vulnerable positions and that there has been serious discrimination. Hence Unia's plea for such a convention at international level. At Flemish level, there are voices in favour of an elder law commissioner, but this cannot be done without a framework. That framework is an international treaty in which older people see their rights listed, which can serve as a guiding principle for national laws, for enforcing their rights before the courts and for positive measures. I had a resolution adopted about a year ago here in Parliament. There was a great deal of support at the time to put Belgium on that line and to call for a UN convention. The Open-ended Working Group on Ageing, which has been in existence for a number of years, is also working on this issue today. We have never taken a hard position, but now with the resolution and with Unia, which explicitly advocates, you have the support to call for a convention at the meeting of the Open-ended Working Group from 21 March to 1 April. How will you follow that up? Will you also argue for a common position from the European Union? Who will represent us in the Open-ended Working Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u121	Madam Minister, Mrs Van Hoof has outlined the context very well. I'll go straight to my questions. Will our country play an active role at the meeting of the working party to come up with an Older Rights Convention, as requested by the Chamber in a resolution? What exactly will our country do? What steps has the Belgian Government taken to combat age discrimination at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u122	Thank you for your question on a possible UN convention for older people, which allows me to go deeper into the Belgian position on this issue. I share your concern about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on older people and global discrimination and violations of the human rights of older people. Respect for human rights and non-discrimination are priorities in Belgian foreign policy. The same applies to older people. However, Belgium is not in favour of the development of a new UN convention for the separate category of older people. Our country therefore supports the EU position. There is a need for better protection of the rights of older people, but the shortcomings in this respect are not of a legislative nature. The existing human rights standards apply to everyone, including older persons. In particular, compliance with and implementation of standards is important. That's where the shoe often pinches. A new UN treaty would not automatically meet that challenge. On the other hand, other procedures and methods can help to improve the protection of the rights of older people. I am thinking here of the existing conventions which already contain many relevant provisions, the committee that monitors their compliance, as well as the mechanisms of the Human Rights Council. Belgium insists on protecting the existing human rights system and instruments against excessive proliferation and fragmentation, which could lead to a weakening of the universality of human rights. The emphasis should be on compliance with existing standards. In other words, non-discrimination and human rights, including those of older people, are a priority in Belgian foreign policy. Belgium supports the EU's position, which requires a stronger commitment to the implementation of existing human rights standards rather than the development of a new UN Convention. As with all other UN working groups, the UN Open Ended Working Group on Ageing is taking action at EU level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u123	Madam Secretary, it is the first time today that I disagree with you. It is a pity because your party also supported my resolution on the UN Convention at the time. By Unia this is strongly advocated because of the strong discrimination during the covid crisis in, among other things, the triage in hospitals. There have been testimonials that older people are treated later than young people, including in care centres. In this sense, we need a general framework. People are getting older in this world. In developing countries, too, people are more often discriminated against on the basis of old age. We need a new framework. Especially on the Flemish side, this debate is very intense, with the demand for a parental rights commission. In the same way as there is a Commissioner for Children's Rights, there is also a Convention on the Rights of Children which sets out a clear framework. Ban Ki-moon said at his farewell that the treaties are age blind in the area of older people, which is still a gap for the UN treaties. Older people cannot enforce their rights directly in court. That's a gap in the UN's instruments. I would rather not use the horse's cart by choosing a parent's rights commissioner, but rather a UN convention. Maybe we'll be forced to, if we don't get it. In this sense, I would like to draw your attention to the resolution, as well as the recent Unia report, which now explicitly advocates such a convention. While that was previously not nuanced, it was now very clear. I would like to continue to bring the subject to your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As Mr Van Hoof and yourself have said, the corona crisis has clearly demonstrated that the rights of the elderly in our society have been fundamentally violated in some areas. Think about the situation in the residential care centres, including in our country. Right to life and health and the prohibition of age discrimination are fundamental human rights, yet there is no specific international legal framework that promotes and protects the rights and dignity of older people. Many lawyers and specialists argue in favour of such an instrument because certain barriers or violations of rights faced by older people should be given a clearer place in the entire framework of the human rights treaties. The added value of a treaty on the rights of the elderly is not to recognise new or separate rights of the elderly, but to recognise older people as fully-fledged citizens with equal rights. That was also the philosophy of the Treaties on the rights of women, children and persons with disabilities. In this sense, I regret that this is not the Belgian position and that we are not advocating such an elderly rights treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u125	Minister, on November 24, Colombia commemorated the four years of the peace agreement signed between the FARC and the Colombian government in 2016, which was to put an end to the violence of an armed conflict of almost fifty years. However, massacres and persecutions continue to be committed with impunity, with human rights defenders and social rights being the primary targets. Indeed, since 2016, no less than 378 human rights defenders have been killed in Colombia. Between 2019 and the first half of 2020, 14 trade unionists were murdered and 198 received death threats. Last December, the home of trade unionist Juan Carlos Galvis and his woman rights defender was sacked by strangers. Electronic material containing information about their work in the defence of workers' rights and human rights has been stolen. In the first month of 2021, according to the unit of charge and investigation of the Special Case for Peace, thirteen threats and fourteen assassinations of human rights defenders, six massacres and assassinations of former FARC combatants took place. According to the UN rapporteur, Michel Forst, 89 per cent of the murders of human rights defenders remain unpunished. In January, Juan Medina-Salgado, a defender of Colombian Caribbean artisanal fishermen, received death threats in connection with his associative and environmental activities. In short, violence persists in Colombia. Belgian organisations and trade unions (FGTB-Orval or Solsoc) have denounced these intimidations against social leaders and human rights defenders. It is known that Colombian legislation has tools to combat these acts, but these devices have major shortcomings or are not operational. In fact, only 16 per cent of protection requests are admitted and 25 FARC ex-combatants were killed pending such protection measures. After this rather dark balance sheet, here are my questions. What is Belgium's position on the protection of social leaders and human rights defenders in Colombia? What information comes back to you from our diplomacy on the spot? Does Belgium have a particular – and perhaps firm – position on these issues at European level? At European level, what position does Belgium take on violations of human rights, labour rights and the environment in the partner countries of the Europe-Colombia-Ecuador-Peru trade agreement? These links between trade agreements and human rights are regularly returned to. What proactive follow-up is in place on these rights violations? What position does Belgium take with regard to its ability to activate the human rights clause of the Europe-Colombia-Ecuador-Peru trade agreement? Does Belgium intend to encourage the European Parliament to continue to proactively monitor commitments to Colombia under Resolution 2628 of 2012 of the Europe-Colombia-Ecuador-Peru Trade Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u126	I share your concern about the human rights situation in certain areas in Colombia. Belgium does not fail to draw the attention of the Colombian government to the need to respect human rights. It has intervened on several occasions in international fora, including at the United Nations Security Council during our 2019-2020 mandate. Colombia is the subject of quarterly discussions in the Security Council. In the last debate on 21 January, members reiterated their deep concern at the continuing threats, attacks and assassinations against community and social leaders, including women leaders, and members of indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities. They stressed that this remained the greatest threat to the implementation of the final peace agreement and stressed that much progress was still needed. This includes implementing the action plan of the "Global Guarantee Programme for Women Leaders and Human Rights Defenders" and enhancing the security of all the above-mentioned groups. This is in line with Belgium's regular interventions during the two years of participation in the Security Council. At the March 2020 session of the Human Rights Council, Belgium called on the Colombian government to urgently end the vicious cycle of violence and impunity. These crimes are mainly perpetrated where the presence of the State is low, the level of poverty is high, the economy is illegal and there are conflicts between illegal armed groups. The European Union is following the issue of respect for human rights in a consistent and recurring manner in the context of relations with Colombia, in particular in the context of the high-level political dialogue but also in the field of social rights, through the mechanisms of the free trade agreement. The last two Colombian governments have made efforts to improve respect for human rights and we insist that these efforts be continued. The European Union continues to place this issue on the bilateral agenda and has put in place several initiatives to actively support human rights defenders in Colombia. On the Belgian side too, this issue is systematically addressed in our bilateral contacts. The free trade agreement includes a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes commitments on workers' rights and a mechanism for consultation with civil society. The implementation of the provisions of this chapter is the subject of an important follow-up by the Commission, civil society and also the FPS Foreign Affairs, including our embassies on the spot. The subcommittee, which meets annually, has the opportunity to address certain concerns with the authorities of the partner countries, but also with civil society, which plays an important role in monitoring and evaluation through the consultation mechanism established by the agreement. The free trade agreement also contains a human rights clause which states that respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights and the rule of law is an essential element of the agreement. This clause allows each Contracting Party to take action in the event of a breach of these principles, including, in the final instance, the suspension of the Agreement. These measures are an important instrument available to the European Union in terms of political dialogue and respect for human rights with our partners. However, and this is where the building may be hurting, Belgium is the only EU Member State that has not yet ratified the trade agreement with Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, with ratification still blocked at the level of some federated entities. It therefore seems a little tricky to use clauses of an agreement that we are the only ones that have not yet ratified. Understand with me that it puts us in a somewhat complicated position. But it is not that we must give up our values, what we believe in and defend. This is an opportunity for leverage that could be used and denied. I know he's not the only one, but he exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u127	Minister, this is not the only lever, but we must never drink poison to quench thirst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u129	A trade agreement can indeed be a lever. But it can also raise other questions and create other difficulties. We discussed this during the discussions on Mercosur. This is a somewhat difficult situation which must not prevent us from mobilising other means to maintain the pressure on this country, which is, however, a partner country. As the situation is obviously very delicate, I will not hesitate to ask you again, with the permission of the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u130	Minister, are we going to exhaust the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u131	Yes, the atmosphere is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u132	I will not be able to stay until the end, unfortunately, but the atmosphere is excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u133	I thought you were more up to the pointer than that!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u134	Yeah, but I have to go live at 7:00. In any case, that is a shame, because I was very interested in the question about Qatar. On Friday, 5 February, the ICC declared itself competent for the events in the occupied Palestinian territories. An opinion was requested on this subject after magistrate Fatou Bensouda announced in December 2019 that she would open an investigation into potential war crimes committed in these areas. NGOs, whether Palestinian, Israeli or international, have all welcomed this historic decision. Unsurprisingly, Israel and the United States, which are not parties to the ICC, have been outraged. A response from these two countries is to be feared. In the head of the first, it has probably already begun, since the Hebrew State seems to have launched a diplomatic campaign aimed at dissuading the sentence. This is proof of the reactions of your German, Hungarian and Czech counterparts. As for the second, I do not think it necessary to go back at length to the economic sanctions imposed on the prosecutor in question last September. Faced with these threats to the International Criminal Court, the European Union must be firm and, above all, consistent with its past commitments. Last December, in a joint statement by the 27 Member States, it stated that it would continue to fully support the independence of the ICC and would protect - I quote - "the Court and its staff against any external pressure or threat". Minister, have you been aware of this decision? On both a bilateral and a European level, what initiatives do you intend to take in order to reaffirm our desire to see the independence of the ICC preserved? What follow-up will be given to the joint statement I have mentioned? What actions will you defend at European level in order to encourage the United States to lift its sanctions against the ICC? In order to enable the ICC to move forward calmly in its work on possible crimes in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, is there any reflection on an increase in Belgian and European funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u135	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Pre-Trial Chamber of the International Criminal Court has confirmed once again that it was well territorially competent for the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories and thus would open a new official investigation into what is termed "war crimes" and "crimes against humanity" committed in those territories. This decision was, of course, heavily challenged by the Israeli authorities, but also by the United States, which had imposed sanctions on the staff of the International Criminal Court to put pressure on forbearance from investigations in the Occupied Palestinian Territory. These sanctions are still in force under the Biden administration. The attempts to influence politically the exercise of the judicial functions of the International Criminal Court are, in my view, absolutely unacceptable. The neutrality of the system must therefore be ensured in order to ensure its proper functioning. Minister, will any measures be taken to protect the neutrality and independence of the International Criminal Court from intimidation? What has been the reaction to the declaration made in favour of the International Criminal Court in December 2020 by the 27 Member States of the European Union at the 19th meeting of the Member States? Finally, are talks at European level to get the United States to lift sanctions against the staff of the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u136	In response to the questions concerning the extension of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to the occupied Palestinian territories, I can confirm that we are aware of the decision of the Court of 5 February. Belgium has not commented on this decision because, on the basis of firm policy, our country does not comment on the decisions of international courts. Belgium strongly supports the Court and respects its independence and impartiality. Belgium is very active in defending the Court both bilaterally and multilaterally. At European level, the European Union actively promotes the universalisation of the Rome Statute and respect for its integrity. In this context, it makes numerous representations to States not yet parties or to States parties to remind them, if necessary, of their obligations under the Statute, especially with regard to cooperation with the Court. Furthermore, Belgium and other Member States are calling for the EU's presence in The Hague to be strengthened through the opening of a delegation. I have taken the initiative with my Benelux colleagues, whose Belgium has been chairing since January, to organise a meeting between the EU Foreign Ministers and the ICC Prosecutor, Mrs Fatou Bensouda, on the sidelines of the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February. It was an opportunity for a public demonstration of European support for the Court, as well as interaction on the various issues at stake. On that occasion, the Prosecutor welcomed the clarity of the Pre-Trial Chamber's decision with regard to the situation in Palestine. It was precisely because of the complex legal issues involved and the sensitive and politically charged environment that the prosecutor and her office wanted to act with caution and responsibility in requesting this decision. They are currently analysing it. As far as the US sanctions are concerned, I can confirm that Belgium is monitoring developments very closely and is ensuring that they remain at the top of the European agenda. In an opinion paper published in POLITICO last November, I, together with Mr Asselborn, a Luxembourg colleague, called on the elected President Biden to withdraw the presidential decree on the International Criminal Court as soon as possible. Furthermore, in my speech at the 19th session of the meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Rome Statute in December, I reiterated that the Court needs the strong support of the States Parties to address the sanction. They constitute a serious obstacle to the proper functioning and a threat to the integrity and independence of the court. Once again, I took the opportunity to express the wish that the new US administration should adopt a different attitude. Finally, I reiterated that point at the video conference with Secretary of State Blinken at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February 2021. As regards the financing of the Court, the annual budget 2021 was adopted at the 19th meeting of the Assembly of States Parties in December. On that occasion, I announced that Belgium had contributed to a solution to the Court's liquidity problems by making an advance payment of its contribution to the 2021 budget. I also called on States parties to shoulder their responsibilities and unite to find a lasting solution. Finally, Belgium also contributes repeatedly and voluntarily to the Victims Trust Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u137	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The ICC's uncompromising defence position honours Belgium and Europeans. Of course, the assessment we make of the Court's action must never be of varying geometry. I am somewhat uncomfortable with the position other partners have taken, but fortunately, we are not on this line. I therefore encourage you to continue your efforts to ensure and, at the very least, defend the independence of the ICC. Madam President, do you think it is possible to anticipate the debate on the Qatar World Cup? That would allow me to leave the committee by asking all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u138	If colleagues agree, I have no objection, but first we have a reply from Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u139	The generosity that calls for generosity, we will say yes, on the charge of revenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u140	Madam Minister, thank you, that is exactly all that has to be done with regard to the institution's defence. I would also like to congratulate you on the strong positions you have taken with your counterparts, and I also hope that we can always vigorously defend this instrument of essential international law, which has proved its worth in the past and which, I hope, will continue to do so in complete neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u141	Madam Minister, I agree with what colleagues have said. You have responded positively to all my questions this time, so I am satisfied. You clearly give public support to the Criminal Court and you have made your position clear in relation to the United States. We must prevent the undermining of the Criminal Court in any way, and you do so explicitly, without compromising neutrality, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u142	Minister, according to The Guardian, at least 6,500 migrant workers from India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka died in Qatar between 2010 and 2020. In 2010, the country was awarded the World Cup of 2022 and the construction of stadiums is proceeding at an unbridled pace. Migrant workers are often employed in the construction of stadiums or infrastructure related to the organization of the World Cup. Qatar is building football stadiums, roads and even a brand new city where the World Cup final should be played. According to the British newspaper, the number of deaths is actually over 6,500, as only the five countries mentioned keep records. However, many people from, for example, the Philippines and Kenya also work in Qatar. The World Cup organizer and FIFA claim to do everything in their power to ensure the safety of employees. Already in 2013, a motion for a resolution by my late colleague, Philippe Blanchart, had been adopted in this context and pointed out these risks of non-respect for human rights, workers' rights and denounced FIFA's choice of Qatar for these reasons. Minister, what information do you have from our diplomatic posts on the spot, from the BAM? What position does Belgium take towards the Qatari government in the face of these denounced facts? Is a concerted European position envisaged in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u143	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the situation of migrant workers in Qatar is a subject to which Belgium and the European Union attach particular importance, and I am, like you, very concerned to learn that 6 500 workers have died in Qatar over the last ten years. Both Belgium and the European Union continue to address the situation of these workers to the Qatari authorities. This was particularly the case during the last human rights dialogue between the European Union and Qatar and during the last Universal Periodic Review of Qatar in May 2019. Belgium has thus made recommendations to the Qatari authorities with regard to the right of foreign workers, the kafala system. In the meantime, Qatar is aware that the rights of these workers must be respected. It has since taken several steps to that end. Qatar and the International Labour Organization (ILO) signed a cooperation agreement in 2018 to implement reforms for foreign workers. Subsequently, the ILO opened an office in Doha to monitor the situation. Progress has been made over the past two years. The minimum wage has been introduced. Legislation had been adopted to improve working conditions. Workers can now change employers and can also leave the country without permission. It is important that these positive measures be maintained and continued. Our country has taken note of the news that the Council of the Shura of Qatar has issued an opinion aimed at cancelling some of the achievements of recent labour legislation. For the time being, these are only recommendations. Belgium will ensure this and will continue to advocate for continued progress and positive measures. Belgium, along with other EU countries, takes abuse reports seriously. Our local embassy is in contact with Qatar's Ministry of Labour, the ILO Office, the Supreme Committee and the Qatar Human Rights Commission on working conditions and the rights of foreign workers. Through constant dialogue with these actors, Qatar is constantly reminded of the importance of continuing reforms and their effective implementation on the ground. The guidelines drawn up by the Supreme Committee and the ILO concerning working conditions, safety and the well-being of workers both on and off construction sites (housing, medical care, social services) are strictly respected by Belgian companies involved in the 2022 World Cup. The Department of Foreign Affairs and I will continue to monitor the situation closely and to plead with the Qatari authorities during our meetings for an improvement in the situation of foreign workers in Qatar. In addition, the Department is also willing to meet with the Belgian Football Federation on this issue if it so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u144	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I really encourage you to maintain the dialogue. You were right to point out that progress has been made, which I find quite significant. The Qataris were very happy to receive the World Cup organization; then they realized that a bad buzz was being created because they were suspected of not respecting workers' rights. Amnesty International, in particular, has mobilized. I believe that this has enabled legislative developments to emerge in the country. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the very positive role played by the Belgian companies which have built stadiums there and which, in the way of managing their construction site, have gone further than local legislation, with results on the number of deaths. There are still too many, but to my knowledge for this particular company, there have been three out of 4,000 workers. There are positive results provided that the light, dialogue and some form of pressure are maintained. I can only encourage you to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u145	I'll read the Minister's answer. The allocation of this big sporting event to Qatar went very badly from the beginning. Today we are still hearing reports about this. That is why we have put this on the agenda. Hopefully, the organisations involved in major sporting events, whether they are these types of World Cup or Olympic Games, will in future think better about how they deal with them and, above all, ensure that they set up sustainable sporting events, which will also be of benefit to them afterwards. I have my greatest doubts about this sporting event.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u146	Question No 55014130C and No 35 55014132C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Question No 5014161C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u147	Madam Minister, on 17 December last the House of Representatives adopted the motion for a resolution that I had tabled with a view to obtaining a lasting resolution on the conflict in Nagorny Karabakh. One of the demands of the government was that it support international initiatives aimed at the mutual exchange of prisoners, in compliance with the Geneva Conventions. Unfortunately, two months later, to my knowledge, their situation has not changed. While all Azerbaijani detainees were returned to their country after the end of hostilities, this was not the case for Armenians. Worse, there is evidence of torture and humiliation committed against them. At present, more than 200 Armenians would still be retained. The European Court of Human Rights stated that it had received applications concerning 228 Armenians in detention. Madam Minister, can you inform us of how Belgium, following the adoption of this resolution, has been able to support exchanges of prisoners of war? What information do you have about the situation of Armenian prisoners at the present time? Do you have an estimate of their number and conditions of detention? Has this situation recently been at the heart of discussions with your European counterparts? If this situation persists and degrading acts are confirmed, does the European Union intend to react in a concrete way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u148	Madam President, Minister, the Armenia-European Union Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement (CAPA), signed in November 2017, entered fully into force on 1 March 2021. CEPA has created a legal basis for the Armenia-EU partnership in areas such as justice, security, economy, agriculture, environmental infrastructure, climate, education, science, culture, health, etc. It also addresses the issue of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. In particular, the European Union reaffirms its commitment to support the efforts of the Minsk Group (co-chaired by Russia, France and the United States) for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the settlement of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. After the signing of the ceasefire of 10 November 2020, where much of the self-proclaimed independent territory since 1991 has been under Azerbaijan's control, Azerbaijan continues to fail to honour its commitments, including the return of Armenian prisoners. Armenian civilians are even locked up in prisons in Baku on the pretext that they are Armenians. Minister, can you indicate what information you have from our embassy in Moscow, which is competent for Armenia and our embassy in Azerbaijan? What is Belgium's position on the development of this situation, given the commitments made in the resolution adopted by this Parliament in December 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u149	Despite the ceasefire since 9 November 2020, the humanitarian situation in Nagorno-Karabakh remains precarious. One of the most urgent humanitarian issues is that of the prisoners of war. Paragraph 8 of the truce states: "the exchange of prisoners of war, hostages and other detainees, as well as the remains of the fatalities, shall be carried out."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u150	First of all, I would like to thank you for these issues relating to Nagorny Karabakh. As you know, through the signing of the trilateral declaration of the ceasefire agreement on the night of 9-10 November in Moscow, Armenia and Azerbaijan explicitly committed themselves to implementing the exchange of prisoners of war, hostages and other detainees as well as remains. Even before the cessation of hostilities, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the only international organization present since 1992, based on its principle of neutrality, contacted the authorities of the two countries to make use of its good offices for the various exchanges. The President of the ICRK, Peter Maurer, also held talks in Moscow on 17 November 2020 with the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, on this subject. Following numerous contacts, a first prisoner exchange took place on 14 December under the auspices of the ICRC and the Russian peacekeeping force in Nagorno-Karabakh. On that occasion, 12 Azeric prisoners and 44 Armenian prisoners were exchanged. Other Armenian prisoners were then sent back, including on 9 February, bringing the total number to 69. As regards the exchange of remains, mainly involving Armenia, between 13 November and 13 February 1,485 remains were returned to the Armenian Party. A declaration by the Ministry of Health of Armenia states that the total number of victims identified by the forensic service between 27 September and 13 February is 3,577, while the remains of 428 other victims still have to be identified. This means that at least 4.005 Armenians were killed in the conflict. The exchange of material remains thus takes place in a certain degree of transparency, despite the winter conditions and the thousands of unexploded mines and objects scattered across the battlefields, making it impossible for the time being to recover all the remains. As for the exchange of prisoners, it should be noted that, despite the principle of all-to-all exchange at the highest level, the introduction of their respective lists of prisoners to the ICRC and the Russian peacekeeping force, the process is more laborious. The respective Armenian and Azerbaijani authorities do not wish, given the sensitivity of the case, to communicate publicly on the exact number of prisoners still to be exchanged. In addition, 62 armed Armenians were arrested in Azerbaijani territory after the ceasefire on 10 November. The presence of the latter in Azeri territory runs counter to the provisions of the declaration of the ceasefire agreement, Baku regards these 62 detainees, 10 of whom have already been exchanged in the meantime, not as soldiers but as terrorists. The lack of direct contacts between the Armenian and Azerbaijani authorities is not making this matter any easier. Two other factors explain the situation. So far, the mission of specialised UN agencies evaluating needs has not been able to visit Nagorno-Karabakh, because Armenia and Azerbaijan do not agree on the modus operandi of actual visits. Armenia insists, on the one hand, that the mission to Karabakh arrives first in Armenia and then travels through the Lachin corridor under Russian control. Azerbaijan, on the other hand, calls for the mission to land in Baku or Ganja to reach Karabakh through the territory controlled by Azerbaijan. The three co-chairs of the Minsk Group have not visited the region because there is no agreement between Russia, on the one hand, and France and the United States, on the other, on the division of tasks between the trilateral Russia-Armenia-Azerbaijan and on the process led by the three co-chairs of the Minsk Group. During my various talks with the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan on 17 and 18 December, in addition to the humanitarian situation and the suffering of the population, including the lack of news about the fate of the missing persons, I urged my counterparts to undertake the necessary efforts to support the difficult but necessary reconciliation process. I stressed respect for the norms of international law, including the law of war and international humanitarian law. Armenia and Azerbaijan acceded in 1993 to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949, including provisions on the treatment of prisoners of war, and must therefore comply with its provisions. I would like to emphasise that Belgium is a loyal partner of the International Committee of the Red Cross and that our country decided to increase its contribution to this international organisation, which is present in the many, too many conflicts we face in 2021. Our country also calls for a UN mission to Nagorno-Karabakh to be speeded up so that the international community, including Belgium, can provide additional help and support to the people of Nagorno-Karabakh. Whether multilaterally or bilaterally, I will not hesitate to discuss openly with my Armenian and Azerbaijani counterparts the various post-conflict aspects affecting the population of Nagorny Karabakh, but also that of the two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u151	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is often said in this commission: a war is always a failure. In this case, it is true not only for the Azeri, but also for the Armenians. The Armenian people paid a very heavy price for Azerbaijan's war in Nagorny Karabakh with the military support of Turkey. This people is a martyr, especially since 1915 and the genocide committed against them. We must repeatedly support a resumption of the Minsk Group negotiations in order to establish a lasting and lasting resolution to the conflict. So far, the Minsk Group has clearly failed, this is a clear observation. But, before any discussion, it is the international war treaties that must be respected and, of course, the Geneva Convention and the Third Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War. We must do everything to ensure that all prisoners of war, all of them, can find their families as soon as possible. Then credible discussions between the parties can be undertaken under the auspices of the international community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u152	I would like to point out a technical problem with video conferencing. The French translation is done on the German channel. I have therefore followed a large part of your answer in Dutch, which I do not know as you do, Madam Minister. However, I understood the essentials. I totally agree with Mr. From Maegd. We must be firm in respect of international treaties, in particular the Geneva Convention and international humanitarian law. It is the Minsk Group that must find a solution to this quasi-historical difficulty in the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. Beyond the role of Russia and Turkey in circumvolutions which are essentially aimed at ensuring that they take power in what they fear to be their geographical sphere of influence, it is up to the Minsk Group to find the solution in partnership with the Azerbaijani and Armenian authorities and their peoples above all. They are the ones who are suffering for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u153	Madam Secretary, I could not say it better than my colleagues. It is true that the Minsk Group has produced little results. Too bad, but unfortunately. Russia has indeed drawn the sheet, with the support of Turkey. What happened there is terrible. The way in which prisoners are dealt with and the exchange of material remains is terrible. This is still a frozen conflict. The probability of this exploding within a few years is high. Treaties are not respected, which is always a source of conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u154	Debates of the European Parliament 55014184C by Mr Samuel Cogolati is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u155	Madam President, Madam Minister, the political developments in the field of human rights in Poland are a matter of increasing concern. On 22 October 2020, the Polish Constitutional Court validated a further tightening of the abortion law by prohibiting abortion in case of malformation of the foetus. Polish legislation was already one of the most restrictive in Europe in this area. This decision is, of course, strongly contested by women and women's rights organizations, which have since continued to protest against the Polish decision. The President of the Constitutional Court herself stated that the existing legislation authorizing the abortion of ill-trained fetuses was "incompatible" with the country's Constitution. In addition, this decision provoked an immediate critical response from the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. It considers in a statement that "to eliminate the grounds for almost all legal abortions in Poland is almost equivalent to prohibiting them and violating human rights", in this case those of women. According to official data, Poland, a country with 38 million inhabitants, registered in 2019 only about 1,100 cases of abortion, the overwhelming majority of which were allowed because of an irreversible malformation of the foetus. According to NGOs, the number of abortions carried out clandestinely in Poland or in foreign clinics could reach nearly 200,000 per year. Since then, thousands of protestors have continued to march through the streets of Warsaw, but also throughout Europe, to oppose this liberticide law. Minister, how does Belgium react to this violation of women's rights? What information do we have from our diplomacy on the spot? What position has Belgium adopted, particularly in the European concert, following this announcement? Madam President, if I may, I shall turn immediately to my second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u156	Minister, on 10 February, almost all non-public media (all media: press, radio, TV, general Internet or information portals, etc.) Poland was on strike to protest the new tax to which they are subject. They posted a page – often black – with a text entitled "Media without choice" explaining their difficulties in the face of this tax christened by the Polish government "contribution on advertising revenues". The strike message is that the media are financially exsanguated because of the covid, as advertising revenues have decreased at the same time as those of advertising operators. It is, moreover, a fact that can be shared everywhere, including in Belgium. But what is alarming in Poland is that large media groups are mostly liberal and progressive and independent of the Polish state, very critical of the government, rather than of the public media. These facts are all the more disturbing and disturbing when one knows the will of the ruling majority party to "repolonize" the media. Minister, in the face of this rather surprising situation in Poland, what information do you have from our diplomacy on the spot? Did Belgium, with its legitimacy in the field of press freedom, have any exchanges on this subject with the Polish government? I remember asking you about the matter and you took a truly sharp position on it. What position has been taken at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u157	The developments in Poland that you are referring to are indeed a source of questions and concerns. They are closely followed by our diplomatic post in Warsaw and the SPF Foreign Affairs from Brussels. Regular contacts also take place with Polish civil society. Women's rights or gender equality, non-discrimination are priorities of Belgium's foreign policy and without guaranteeing the sexual and reproductive rights of women and girls throughout their lives, achieving gender equality is simply not possible. Belgium regularly addresses these issues at both the multilateral and bilateral and European levels. In order to actively defend the realization of these rights, we regularly hold bilateral meetings, through specific approaches or the Universal Periodic Review, and call on other countries to respect sexual and reproductive health and rights. Furthermore, Belgium calls for the most progressive possible position in the negotiations on relevant resolutions and conclusions at both European Union and United Nations fora. Following the publication in the Polish Official Gazette of the entry into force of the Constitutional Court's ruling on 27 January 21, further demonstrations took place. Polls indicate that the Polish population largely supports protests and rejects the virtual ban on abortion. The majority seems to be in favour of maintaining the status quo, in particular the original abortion law of 1993. With regard to freedom of the press, I would like to point out that the new tax to which you refer is currently at the stage of a bill which, as I speak to you, does not seem to benefit from the support of all partners in the Polish government's coalition. It seems that the government is now considering amending it. In 2020, Poland was ranked 62nd out of 180 in the World Press Freeedom Index, while in 2015 Poland was still in 18th place. Indeed, we have seen in recent years that public media are becoming increasingly closer to State channels receiving large subsidies, creating an imbalance of forces in relation to independent media. The latter are under pressure in terms of funding and, in addition, there is also a need to consider the use of defamation legislation in legal proceedings against certain journalists. The topic of "foreign influence on the Polish media" is a long-standing internal policy issue in Poland, and the government had previously referred to legislative proposals to establish quotas for foreign ownership of Polish media groups, but finally called for the acquisition of foreign media groups by companies, and sometimes Polish state-owned companies. On this specific subject, Belgium did not have a direct exchange with the Polish government. We have good bilateral relations with Poland, which, like Belgium, is a member of the European Union and the Council of Europe. This allows difficult cases to be dealt with by the authorities of that country within these institutions, where appropriate. If I can make a little precision of language, among the two sentences I have just read to you, one is not the consequence of the other. It is not because we have good bilateral relations with Poland that we have not had direct exchanges with the Polish Government on this subject. I want this to be clearly stated. The European Commission is closely following developments on the ground from the point of view of respect for the rule of law. The Article 7 TEU procedure within the Council, in particular, started in December 2017, allows for a dialogue on these issues. A statement of the question was presented by the Commission under this procedure at the General Affairs Council on 22 September, where a firm position was expressed by the institutions and the Member States. Belgium has not failed, in the context of a joint Benelux intervention, to reiterate its support for the Commission in its role as guardian of the Treaties and guarantor of the fundamental values of the European Union, including freedom of the press. The situation in Poland should be discussed again in a forthcoming Council. Belgium will not fail to intervene to reiterate its commitment to respect fundamental rights. As I said before – you said of my speech that it was at the cutting edge – I do not want us to be in an à la carte Europe. Respect for our fundamental values, gender equality, freedom of the press, are very important to me and to all of us democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u158	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. In the current Polish darkness, however, there is a glimmer of hope for women's rights. You recalled that a poll shows that Polish society is not in agreement with what is happening, and that civil society is manifest. Undoubtedly, under pressure from this popular movement, the government will modify or, in any case, attempt to alleviate the damage it can do in the area of human rights, particularly with regard to women's rights. As for freedom of the press, I note with you that we are witnessing a decline in rights in Poland. You recalled the 2015 ranking against the current ranking, and the fall in respect for press rights and freedom of the press. I welcome the firmness of the European Union, of your Government and of yourself to remind you that European values are intangible, that they are the very body of the Treaty, and that we are not joining Europe solely for economic reasons. We also join Europe because we share the values of humanity and humanism that are deeply established and rooted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u159	Question No 55014211C by Mr Michel De Maegd is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u160	Madam Chair, I have decided to turn this question into a written question so as not to abuse the minister's time. Indeed, I would like to point out that it has now been more than five hours since Parliament answered parliamentary questions, and to stress its seriousness and respect for Parliament. That a minister remains so long must be stressed because this is quite rare. I also think that the minister has exhausted almost all the Members, in any case in the Chamber, but also in video conferencing, it seems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u161	It's a tactic!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u162	But no, I am at the disposal of Parliament. This is not a strategy. You're the one who's using strategies. I am not targeting you personally, but questions were sent to me five minutes before the start of the meeting to ensure that I would respond well to all of them. Besides, for fun, there's the question that nobody has an answer to, except me. So, do you know how many questions have been asked by parliamentarians and for which we have prepared ourselves to answer in this committee? One hundred and eighteen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u163	This is indeed a marathon. But we knew it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u164	Like my colleague De Maegd, I welcome our minister's correction of parliamentarians. I would not say that those who remain in session are the best, but this is a form of respect for us, parliamentarians, for the work you have done with your staff and administration to answer our questions. When a minister makes an effort to remain in Parliament at the disposal of parliamentarians, they must show the same respect. My question is about a matter of concern. Parliamentarians are sometimes victims of human rights violations, ranging from arbitrary detention and exclusion from public life to kidnapping and murder in the worst cases. According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, 58 cases of violations of the rights of parliamentarians have been identified and documented in Turkey. We can also read in The New York Times that the Erdogan regime continues to prosecute opposition members of the Democratic People's Party. On 27 September, on Twitter, criticising Turkey's active participation in regional destabilization, Garo Paylan, a member of Armenian descent from the HDP party, was targeted. On 5 October, the MPs of the AKP party signed a statement accusing the same MP of being pro-Armenian and guilty of treason. They then called on the Turkish judiciary and Parliament to "fulfill their duty". Seven members of the HDP, including MP Garo Paylan, are accused of attempting to overthrow the constitutional order, and the prosecutor is about to ask Parliament to waive their immunity. Similar charges have been laid against former HDP co-chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, and thousands of HDP members and officials who are still in prison. Mr Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, human rights activist and deputy, was also threatened with charges of terrorism, first by the Uşak police chief, then by Özlem Zgin, Vice-President of the parliamentary group of the ruling party AKP, and by Süleyman Soylu, Minister of the Interior. I will therefore not remain silent in the face of threats to my colleagues to any party they belong to and I will continue to support their struggle for democracy and freedom of expression in Turkey. Minister, do we have any information on these waivers of parliamentary immunity and on the specific cases of the Members I have quoted from you? What information does it come from our embassy in Turkey? Do you have bilateral contacts with your counterparts on the spot? What position does Belgium take with regard to the defence of parliamentarians, in general, in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u165	Mr President, the violations of parliamentary rights in Turkey are indeed very worrying and unfortunately represent a symptom of the constant erosion of the human rights situation and the rule of law in Turkey. This is especially the case since the failed coup d'état of July 2016 and the introduction of a draconian anti-terrorist law. Since the parliamentary elections in June 2018, I have heard of two MPs of the pro-Kurdish HDP party, whose immunity was lifted in June 2020 and who have lost the status of MP following a conviction for participation in the activities of an armed terrorist organisation. These are Ms. Leyla Güven and Mr. Musa Farisoğullari currently in prison and serving a sentence. The third deputy, Mr. Enis Berberoğlu of the Kemalist CHP party, also saw his immunity lifted at the same time for allegedly disclosing confidential information to the public. However, he was reinstated as a Member of Parliament on 11 February 2021 following a ruling by the Constitutional Court. There are currently many cases of requests for waiver of parliamentary immunity from the judiciary and submitted to the Turkish Parliament. These requests would, according to some information, cover a total of 175 Members, mainly members of the opposition. The most recent cases include the prosecution of nine members of the HDP, including the party's co-president, Ms.Pervin Buldan, and the Armenian MP, Mr. Garo Paylan, whom you mention in your question. They are accused of organizing demonstrations related to the Battle of Kobane in October 2014. Deputy Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, for his part, was sentenced at first instance in February 2018 to a prison sentence for "propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation" following a publication on social networks. Since he was elected a Member of Parliament in June 2018, there had therefore been no procedure for waiving parliamentary immunity, since he was not covered by it at the time of his conviction. This being the case, in February 2021 the Court of Cassation confirmed his prison sentence and will shortly pass this verdict on to Parliament, which could lead to the loss of his capacity as a Member of Parliament. I also note that, on 21 February 2021, the Prosecutor's Office announced the opening of an investigation on alleged link with the PKK against another member of the HDP, Mr. Dilan Taşdemir. This announcement follows a speech delivered the previous day by the Turkish Minister of the Interior in which he announced that the MP had recently visited northern Iraq and more particularly the Gara area where 13 Turkish hostages had recently been executed by the PKK. These measures against parliamentarians are part of a climate of constant pressure against opposition parties, particularly but not only against the pro-Kurdish HDP party, many of which have been prosecuted and imprisoned since the failure of the talks between the government and the PKK in 2015. These include the two former leaders of the HDP, parliamentarians, mayors and activists. The last wave of arrests of HDP activists took place following the execution of thirteen Turkish hostages, on 10 February 2021, in northern Iraq, as part of an operation by the Turkish army to release them. The issue of human rights, including the situation of parliamentarians, is part of the dialogue between the European bodies and the Member States of the European Union, including Belgium, and the Turkish authorities. It is a special focus for our country, including at the level of the European Union, the Council of Europe and other multilateral fora. At European level, relations between the European Union and Turkey have eased somewhat since the withdrawal of Turkish gas exploration vessels from disputed waters in the eastern Mediterranean. The Turkish authorities, like the European Union, want to move forward in areas of common interest (migration, refugees, climate, customs union). That said, we know that in these subjects things can change quickly. In my view, the time is right to remind our Turkish partners that the quality of future cooperation between the European Union and Turkey depends not only on appeasement in the eastern Mediterranean, but also on a real and lasting improvement in the internal situation in Turkey. This is also the message I delivered during my meeting with my Turkish counterpart on 21 January. Belgium will be keen to recall this at the next European Council. The promotion of fundamental freedoms, the strengthening of the rule of law, the enlargement of the civic and political space are priorities for the European Union and Belgium. The parliamentary situation is a subject which, depending on the specific cases, is addressed by Belgium in the context of bilateral talks and/or in multilateral and regional fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u166	Madam Minister, I thank you for the quality of your answer, which was precise, detailed and reasoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u167	Thank you, Mr. Lacroix. At least it's a clear line!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u168	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 22 February, the Italian ambassador to the DRC, Luca Attanasio, was killed in an armed attack in the eastern part of the country. The attackers were targeting a convoy of the United Nations World Food Programme. Two other people also lost their lives. The European Union, through the voice of Charles Michel, reacted quickly, recalling that it would remain with the DRC and its people in order to ensure peace and security, before offering its condolences to the families of the victims. You also immediately reacted, contacting your Italian counterpart to express your condolences, while denouncing "an abhorrent act that demonstrates the urgent need to bring peace to this region". We can only support your comments. Too many lives lost, you said, in this country. Let us beware that the European Union will continue its efforts on the spot to guarantee peace! Minister, do you have more information about this attack? This event shows once again, unfortunately, the dangerousness of the situation on the ground, including for diplomats. Can you take a look at how the security of our diplomats is guaranteed? Do you think this should be reviewed? Do you think that any further steps should be taken in this regard? Finally, what strategy do Belgium, and more broadly the European Union, envisage in the long term with a view to resolving the persistent conflict in this region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u169	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, I fully share your concern. We learned that in the middle of the Council, and that was a shock. Any lost human life is special, but it is true that the conditions under which we have learned the news, together with the representative of the Italian Foreign Minister on the spot, will make us not forget this moment. This terrible attack cost the life of the Italian Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Luca Attanasiano. I immediately reacted and expressed my condolences to the Italian Foreign Minister, Mr Luigi Di Maio, while denouncing an abhorrent act which shows the urgent need to bring peace to the region and which has already taken too many lives. It also reminds us of how risky the profession of our diplomats in the service of the State can be. On the basis of the information currently available, it appears that a delegation of the UN World Food Programme had left Goma on 22 February and was on its way to Rutshuru. In the convoy of two cars there were among others the Italian Ambassador and the Deputy Director of the WFP in the DRC. About 10.15 you ambushed the convoy and armed persons attacked the UN cars near a strategic location called Les Trois Antennes. There was an attempt at kidnapping, forcing the passengers to leave the car by armed persons. The driver, a member of the World Food Programme, was fatally injured. After the arrival of the guard of the Institut Congolais pour la Conservation de la Nature, the rangers of the Virunga Park, a fierce firefight took place, in which the Italian ambassador was wounded to the abdomen and his bodyguard was killed. The Italian ambassador was transferred as a matter of urgency to a MONUSCO hospital in Goma, where his death was noted. Our Honorary Consul, Mr Levy, was on the spot and assisted the Italian Consul on 22 February and provided assistance where necessary. The UN World Food Programme has indicated that it is working closely with the national Congolese authorities to obtain more details on the attack. The security of our compatriots is a priority and a daily concern for our missions both in Kinshasa and in Lubumbashi for the department. The travel notice on the DRC is available on the SPF Foreign Affairs website and contains essential security recommendations applicable also to the Belgian community residing in the DRC. This travel notice shall be updated whenever necessary for the development of the situation. The current travel notice mentions that the security environment remains volatile and dangerous throughout the country, and also states that in the eastern part of the country, particularly in the provinces of North Kivu, South Kivu, Ituri, Uélé and Tanganyika, as well as in the Kasai region, security risks are even higher. As a result, travel to these areas is strictly not recommended. The travel notice states that, if a traveller were to travel there, all travel should be carried out in a strictly safe and sanitary manner. The execution of missions by our agents in the field is inherent in the functioning of the Department of Foreign Affairs and indispensable for effective diplomacy. These missions are carried out around the world, including in so-called risk areas. This risk can be, for example, terrorist, criminal, political, or information protection. With due diligence and prudence, our department ensures that these missions are managed so as to minimize the threats identified. In general, when geographic and/or security services are informed of a mission in a risk area, threat analysis is requested from our intelligence services and/or OCAM. On the basis of the latter, a series of provisions may be proposed to the posts concerned. This may vary, between purely informative measures, such as a reminder of personal protection guidelines, until minimum conditions are met: armed escort, armoured transport, roads, alternative stays, secure accommodation. In a limited number of our diplomatic posts, our ambassadors also enjoy constant close protection. This is the case for our ambassador in Kinshasa. Our system has recently been revised to further limit a range of identified threats. The conflicts in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo are lasting and involve many armed groups that make the situation particularly complex and mobile. In view of this, Belgium advocates a focused approach to the underlying causes of the conflict, which implies going beyond the military response and engaging in the stabilization and maintenance of lasting peace. Belgium cooperates closely with the United Nations, the African Union and regional organisations and supports EU-led projects. During its mandate to the UN Security Council in 2019 and 2020, Belgium called for a very cautious and step-by-step approach to MONUSCO's exit strategy. We believe that the criteria for considering the withdrawal of the UN mission have not yet been met. Belgium calls for the continuation of the two key missions of MONUSCO, namely the protection of civilians and support for the strengthening of the State apparatus. Finally, Belgium believes that the elimination of the threat posed by armed groups in the eastern part of the DRC requires an integrated regional approach and a strong political commitment from the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Southern African Development Community and the Great Lakes region. Belgium calls for greater EU involvement in the so-called security sector reform in Congo. The intention is to respond to the Congolese questions and help both the police, the army and the court modernise and professionalise. This becomes even more important with the gradual withdrawal of MONUSCO and thus a greater responsibility for the Congolese security services. A first step in this direction will soon be the launch of the European programme to support the Congolese police, which will help to bring police and citizens closer together. In the east of the country, President Tshisekedi stressed the importance of the process of disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration. It will probably be one of the top priorities of the future Congolese government. Belgium is currently examining with several partners how this process can be supported, and then working out concrete details together with the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u170	Minister, thank you for your answer. The death of the Italian ambassador is a painful reminder of how dangerous the mission of our diplomats around the world can be. In particular, those who are present in the DRC – in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi – live moments far from obvious, as you have recalled, as they are under constant close protection and move in armoured vehicles. The Belgian community living there must also remain vigilant. You recalled the most sensitive and dangerous areas: North Kivu, South Kivu, Ituri, Kasai and Tanganyika. I am extremely pleased to hear that Belgium is advocating, on your initiative and through you, for a greater involvement of the European Union in security issues in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Indeed, in my view, we must help the regime in place of Mr Tshisekedi, in order to disarm this region of eastern Congo, which is a permanent powder magazine – especially with the gradual withdrawal of MONUSCO from the country, as you have recalled. Thank you for your attention, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u171	Madam Chair, once again, I would like to thank the minister for the quality of her response. What happened to the Italian Ambassador and the two accompanying people is a shock to the European Union, to Italy, to the families of these people and to all those who believe in the human being and to the prosperous development of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its people. Indeed, beyond what has happened to these three people, attacks and assassinations are constants in this region, events that strike the civilian population, women and children. We must do everything with the European Union to ensure that this country is stable, in particular that region. Therefore, Madam Minister, I thank you for your commitment on behalf of Belgium and on behalf of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u172	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. The assassination of the Ambassador has once again put a magnifying glass on this region, where it has never gone well and where there have always been conflicts. In the past Belgium has also invested in the security sector and in the training of military personnel. There is always a danger, because if the military who are trained are not paid a salary, they are more easily transferred to a militia, where they are given control over cobalt and gold mines. It is a very delicate exercise in that region, on which everyone is dependent. That's the big problem. People can be trained, but if they are not given food or pay, it remains a problem, especially in the region where different countries are involved. It is a good thing that the assassination of the Ambassador is not forgotten and that the European Union is working together to support it and to support Tshisekedi's policy there. That is a very important issue that is often forgotten. MONUSCO has not succeeded in resolving the conflict, nor in protecting the population. I think that we need to work on this and we need to look at how we can protect women, who are often raped. The solution is not obvious, but we can only try to keep working with united forces and not forgetting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u173	Question No 55014412C by Mr Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u174	Madam Minister, I would like to join in thanking you for your late presence. I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u175	Colleagues, in Tigray, the security situation remains of particular concern. Humanitarian access remains limited and complex, despite the agreements reached between the Ethiopian Government, and delivery is still not possible in all areas of Tigray. The administrative process set up by the Ethiopian government severely limits the action of humanitarian agencies and some refugee camps have still not been reached by humanitarian actors. Belgium is part of the European Union's efforts. At the last Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 22 February, I recalled in particular the demand for respect for human rights in general and humanitarian law in particular, and I called for the opening of Tigré to humanitarian aid and the press. I also supported the proposals of my Finnish colleague who has just carried out a mission to the region, under the mandate of the High Representative of the European Union, Mr Borrell. The Committee recommends that the State party continue to advocate for immediate humanitarian access to the whole of Tigray and for the investigation of human rights violations. In particular, following recent allegations, there is an urgent need to shed full light on the tragic violence that took place last November in Aksium. At the 46th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva on 26 February, Belgium joined the joint statement on the situation in Ethiopia. The Commission goes back to sexual violence and insists on the necessary political openness for the next elections scheduled for June. Moreover, at the same session, but on 24 February, Belgium denounced the violations committed by Eritrean troops in Ethiopian territory and called for their withdrawal. Belgium will continue to promote these positions in the future. On humanitarian financing, the Union has actually allocated EUR 4 million of emergency humanitarian aid to Ethiopia in the first instance. However, a further €23.7 million in aid to Ethiopia, Sudan and Kenya was announced at the end of December. For more details on the humanitarian aspect, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u176	Madam Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer and I think that, in addition to your outstanding diplomatic actions and what you are defending at European meetings, this raises the question of the right to asylum and the possibility of relocation, for example. I will ask your colleague, Mr Mahdi, about this because I am particularly concerned about the situation of the people in the camps. Amnesty refers to sexual assaults, and I am going through the terrible situation. We need to think about the possible asylum of these people here who often have no papers since they lose their papers on the migration route. The documents are also sometimes confiscated by the Ethiopian authorities, making it more complicated to welcome these people here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u177	Madam Minister, we regularly alert you about arbitrary arrests and detentions reserved for an increasing number of intellectuals, journalists, defenders of democracy and LGBT people in Egypt, under the authoritarian regime of General al-Sissi. Amnesty International has published a new report that once again shows that political prisoners are being held in inhumane conditions, which is all the more worrying with the covid-19 pandemic. Prisoners are denied access to adequate health care and Egyptian human rights organizations estimate that hundreds of detainees have died since 2013. I have already mentioned in this committee the case of several people. Today, I would like to ask you about the arrest on 1 February of Ahmed Samir Santawy, a 29-year-old researcher and student at the University of Central Europe in Vienna. He was abducted by Egyptian security forces. After a five-day enforced disappearance, an Egyptian court ordered him to remain in detention for the duration of the terrorist investigation against him. Amnesty International reports, however, that Ahmed Samir Santawy is in arbitrary detention because of his research into anthropology of gender and religion, particularly the history of women's rights, including the right to abortion. Amnesty and the University of Central Europe in Vienna called for his immediate release. The relatives of Ahmed Samir Santawy are particularly concerned about his well-being and health, especially since neither his family nor his lawyers have been able to have contact with him so far. I have to say here that I had a contact, a few hours ago, with Ahmed Samir Santawy's companion who told me that she had information about her conditions of detention, but that she had not yet had contact with him. On 22 February, the 46th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council was opened in Geneva. On that occasion, some 100 NGOs wrote an open letter to the governments represented for the establishment of a mechanism to monitor the deterioration of human rights in Egypt. Minister, what follow-up has Belgium given to the inquiry of NGOs prior to the session of the United Nations Human Rights Council? Does Belgium plead at European level to increase pressure on the Egyptian authorities? What other measures have been taken at Belgian and European level to take a stand against human rights violations in Egypt? Do you intend to intervene to demand Egypt's immediate release of Ahmed Samir Santawy and that of all other political prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u178	I share your concern about the human rights situation in Egypt following the report of increasing restrictions on fundamental freedoms and increased repression. I am also informed of the situation of Mr. Ahmed Samir Santawy you mentioned. Our position in Cairo and the FPS Foreign Affairs are following these developments. Unfortunately, this case is an additional example of the general trend of increasing restrictions on democratic space. The Belgian diplomatic network maintains contacts with representatives of civil society. Information from these contacts is always useful in order to better understand the human rights situation, whose promotion and protection are priorities of Belgian and European foreign policy. The protection of human rights defenders who are our natural and indispensable allies in the promotion of human rights and democratisation is one of Belgium's priorities and Belgian foreign policy. In their activities, defenders often have to express critical positions with regard to government policies and measures. The need to support and recognise their work is of great importance and that is why Belgium is contributing to the implementation of the European Union guidelines on this subject. In the context of EU-Egypt relations, Belgium will ensure that human rights remain a priority. On the basis of the Association Agreement in force since 2004, the EU-Egypt Association Council meets periodically and addresses human rights issues. Within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the EU-Egypt Association Council also defines the priorities of the partnership, of which human rights are also an integral part. For some time, Egypt has refused to sign the financing agreements with the European Union because of their human rights clauses. Belgium is one of the Member States of the European Union that insists that this clause be retained in the agreements with Egypt. Within the UN Human Rights Council, Belgium supports initiatives that promote the security and work of human rights defenders. It also supported the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, including by participating in the interactive dialogue with that independent expert. It was in this context that Belgium made a joint statement on behalf of Benelux at the session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva in September, during an interactive dialogue on the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on reprisals against persons wishing to cooperate with United Nations human rights mechanisms. In addition, Belgium recommended that Egypt repeal all laws and policies that restrict the rights and activities of human rights defenders. At the last Universal Periodic Review of Egypt, a United Nations mechanism under the auspices of the Human Rights Council reviewed the human rights situation in the country. It goes without saying that Belgian diplomacy will continue to work, both in its bilateral meetings and in multilateral forums, to promote respect for fundamental rights in Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u179	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer, as you do every time. You rightly mentioned that anyone who defends political struggles has rights and must be able to express them. However, I wanted to remind the committee that he was a researcher studying in Vienna and working on women's rights and the right to abortion. The fact that the regime of General al-Sissi feels threatened by this kind of researcher shows how much one is in a state that unfortunately turns towards a rather disturbing autocracy. Madam Minister, I would like to encourage you to contact your Austrian counterparts, with whom you have a lot of contacts, because they are following the situation very closely and have already begun a series of measures. It would perhaps be interesting if Belgium could eventually join. As President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Belgium-Egypt, I have tried several times to meet the Egyptian ambassador. Unfortunately, he never responded positively to my invitations. I can also encourage you, possibly, to call the ambassador or to talk to him, because I am very concerned, especially about the case of Ahmed Samir Santawy. I would also like to point out that, tonight, his companion who lives in Ghent is listening to us. I would like to salute her and her courage and tell her that I am sure that our Foreign Minister will follow the matter. We too, as parliamentarians, will soon have to take an initiative in this committee. I will propose a resolution to denounce this violation of international law in Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u180	The questions about Qatar have already been dealt with. Mr De Vriendt is not available to ask his question No 55014532C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u181	Mr Lacroix, my answer will be short, because most of your questions are about asylum and migration. As far as Foreign Affairs is concerned, however, I can tell you that the agreement ratified by Azerbaijan and Belgium has not yet entered into force, as it has yet to be ratified by the other partners. With regard to the list of States outside the European Union which have obtained the exemption from the visa requirement for a short stay in the Schengen area, it is set out in Annex 5 of the Manual of the Community Visa Code. Respect for European values is not part of the criteria in the negotiation itself. For the final decision on the countries with which such negotiations are taking place, I refer you to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The negotiation of such an agreement must also be linked to an agreement on readmission. In addition, negotiated agreements are subject to ratification by Parliament. You mention visa-free access to the Schengen area, but the agreement with Azerbaijan is only concluded with Benelux. The exemption is therefore limited to access to the three countries which make up it and therefore does not automatically apply to transits via a Member State of the Schengen Area. Finally, for further information, as already stated, I invite you to question the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, these matters falling within his competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u182	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will question the Secretary of State in charge of Asylum and Migration for the further response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u183	Question No 55014571 by Mr Steven De Vuyst was put in a written question. Question No 55014624C by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u184	Madam President, we spoke earlier about Nagorno-Karabagh, we are now returning to Armenia, which is going through an extremely difficult period, on the one hand because of the health crisis, and on the other because of the conflict in Nagorno-Karabagh. Here are some elements that will be used to support my point. On 27 September, the government of Nikol Pashinyan declared a military state of emergency. After the signing of the ceasefire on 10 November 2020, the military state of emergency was not lifted. Opposition parties led by Robert Kocharian and Serge Sarkissian, the former president, demand the resignation of Nikol Pashinyan. However, on 25 February 2021, at the call of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, more than 200,000 people protested in the streets of the capital to support the democratically established government. The former regime participated in collaboration with the Kremlin in the surrender of Artashat. Military leaders left the Nagorny Karabakh region leaving young soldiers and civilians in the area. The equipment provided by Russia was unusable and the Armenians were unable to fight the jihadist fighters. More than 7,000 young people lost their lives in this war. The judiciary and the armed forces are under the control of the former regime. In violation of the Constitution, the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic has requested the resignation of the Government, while in the Constitution it is prohibited for the Chief of the General Staff to intervene in any political debate. At any time, Serge Sarkissian's regime could regain power by military means as it did in 2008, which would turn out to be a real coup d'état. Madam Minister, what position does Belgium take with regard to the political situation in Armenia, and in particular to the latest proposal of the Prime Minister in place to hold early elections in order to return the democratic choice to the people of Armenia? Can Belgium request an independent investigation from the UN into allegations of war crimes with a view to establishing the truth about the capitulation of Nagorny Karabakh, as provided for in Article 15 of the resolution we voted on in December 2020? In terms of a strong signal, does the Belgian Government intend to strengthen bilateral cooperation with the Republic of Armenia, in particular through the establishment of an embassy in Yerevan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u185	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, since the end of the hostilities in Nagorny Karabakh and in view of the defeat, various sections of Armenian society have gradually requested the resignation of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan. Some also called for the organization of early parliamentary elections, namely the opposition parties, part of the population and the head of the Armenian Apostolic Church. For his part, the Prime Minister fired the ball. In his speeches he identified his nationalist predecessors as responsible for the lack of modernization of the armed forces and military hierarchy. In his view, it had misadvised previous governments on the choice of weapons systems to be purchased. This led the Deputy Chief of Staff to criticize the Prime Minister openly. The Prime Minister immediately dismissed him, thus accentuating discontent in the army. As a result, the head of the army, General Onik Gasparyan, supported by some 40 senior officers, called for the resignation of the Prime Minister. This was followed by a demonstration of support for the Armenian Prime Minister and a counter-demonstration in the centre of Yerevan. On Saturday, the Armenian President, Mr. Armen Sarkissian, rejected the request for the dismissal of the Chief of Staff, adding a little more to the current political crisis. Last night, both sides mobilized their supporters. Thousands of citizens participated. Fortunately, the demonstrations took place in a calm atmosphere. It is in the interest of Armenia, its institutions and the region to defuse the situation. In addition to the return to calm, we call for respect for the rule of law, democratic principles, the military's non-interference in civil affairs and the aspirations of the Armenian people. Mr. Lacroix, I have a doubt. Have you asked me about the opening of a Belgian embassy in Yerevan? It's starting to be tiring for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u187	With regard to your question about the opening of a Belgian embassy in Yerevan, I can tell you that this is not the agenda for the time being. In a changing world, the Belgian diplomatic network, like any other, is constantly evolving, taking into account political factors, economic interests and, it must be said, budgetary constraints. Belgium maintains good relations with the various countries of the South Caucasus, both bilaterally and through the various cooperation and programmes of the European Union. Our Embassy in Moscow is competent for Armenia and ensures careful and regular follow-up of the various issues related to that country. There are also very frequent contacts between Belgian Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic representations of the countries of the South Caucasus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u188	Madam Minister, despite the fatigue and marathon you have been confronted with today, you have answered my questions perfectly. I reiterate your call for a return to calm, democratic rights and non-interference of the army in the political process. I believe that these are three pillars that must guide Armenia today to help it find a solution for its people, so that democracy can be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u189	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55014658C and 55014660C by Mrs Van Hoof will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u190	Madam Secretary, the US has held tactical nuclear weapons in five countries on the European continent. Reports show that in recent years, one third of all tactical nuclear weapons have been removed unilaterally and silently from Europe, in particular from Italy and Turkey, following previous reductions in Germany and the total removal of nuclear weapons from the UK, Greece and Canada. There would still be 100 B61s present, spread over six bases in the five countries. A few weeks ago, the US concluded an agreement with Russia on the extension of the New START nuclear disarmament treaty for five years. The treaty came into force ten years ago and limits the nuclear arsenal of both Russia and the US on every 800 carrier systems and 1,550 operational warheads. The Treaty offers a new opportunity to pursue nuclear disarmament. At the disarmament conference on 22 February last, you said that the extension of New START would allow negotiations to begin on the reduction of the number of nuclear weapons, that each state should take responsibility for this and that they should go for it together. Madam Minister, are you aware of the unilateral withdrawal of nuclear weapons on European territory? Will you use the extension of New START to start negotiations or talks with the US with the other European states that have nuclear weapons on their territory to also reduce the number of tactical nuclear warheads on Belgian territory and eventually remove them in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u191	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, the renewal of the New START Treaty is indeed excellent news. It shows that arms control plays an irreplaceable role as a confidence-building measure and that concrete results are possible, even in times of increasing uncertainty and deep distrust among the great powers. For Belgium, a world without nuclear weapons has long been clearly objective. Belgium will continue to promote nuclear disarmament on the basis of legally binding agreements providing for an irreversible and verifiable reduction. We have already raised this in a previous question. It is from this perspective that Foreign Affairs will be specifically committed to the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference to be held in August of this year. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, Madam People's Representative, you will certainly agree with me that the principle of discretion is essential, since nuclear weapons are primarily a deterrent. This is all the clearer when it comes to the situation in countries other than ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u192	The extension of the New START Treaty could give rise to discussions with the United States, especially now that there is also a debate on NATO's strategic concept, and especially now that the European Union is discussing the strategic compass to define the EU's ambition in the field of security and defence at European Council level. For us, nuclear disarmament must be part of that. I gave it to the Prime Minister yesterday and asked him to take it to the European level if there were discussions on this. It is very important that we do so together with the other European Member States, especially those which also have nuclear weapons on their territory. There is also a very strong support for this by the people of those Member States. There we can take steps together to move forward, as long as we do it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic394x.u193	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst's 55014710C is converted into a written question. Madam Secretary, thank you and your staff for the quality of their answers. I also thank you for your stamina today. We have reached the end of the agenda again. I would also like to thank the services very much for their work tonight and wish everyone a good evening.
