ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u3	Madam President, the Prime Minister has a very busy agenda. If he can, he'll be here for sure. At times when he can't be here, I'm here. There will certainly always be a member of the government present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u4	It seems to me that it was decided to have the presence of the Prime Minister as often as possible, knowing that we are in the last week of our work for this year, that there is also a Codeco tomorrow and obligations related to it. Nevertheless, there must always be a minister in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u5	Madam President, I notice that you have already turned on the hood in this Chamber, which is good for virus circulation. Almost day by day six months ago, we discussed and approved the adjustment of the 2021 budget. The Flemish Interest then talked about inflation and its impact on the budget. A number of colleagues then looked at me and wondered what I was talking about, but in the meantime it is clear to everyone that inflation and price increases are no longer possible from the media. In these times, the public debate often talks about virus deniers, climate deniers and other types of deniers. Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, you are of course neither, but you are an inflationary denier. By means of oral questions in committee and written questions, we have regularly questioned you about inflation, the price increases and the overrun of the central index and its impact on the budget. Your answer was always that this was budget-neutral and that these things have no net impact on the budget. You called yourself the iron lady of the budget in the press, but with regard to inflation and exceeding the central index, you are not an iron lady, but rather a kind of Comical Ali. You know him: that was the Iraqi Minister of Information who said that there are no Americans in Baghad, while the Americans were already in Baghdad. You say that there is no impact of inflation on the budget or that the price increases have no impact on the budget. This is how you deny the shining of the sun. There are increased expenditure on wages, pensions and benefits. The alarming reports of rising prices affect consumer confidence and ultimately VAT revenues. They also put pressure on the margins, profits and production of our companies. Think of BASF, which recently shut down some of its production due to rising gas prices. In the end, inflation can also affect growth. I do not know, Madam Secretary of State, if you have ever considered when Belgium's huge public debt has begun. You're not responding, so I don't think you want to say it, but it was during the energy crisis of the 1970s. The international price increases are a tragedy for the budget and will always be a tragedy as long as we have to import energy, and we will have to continue to import if the government wants to shut down the nuclear power stations. Getting rid of it by saying that inflation is budget-neutral, as you do, Mrs De Bleeker, is just too easy for a Secretary of State for the Budget. You're guilty of some kind of inflation-negationism. This government has not been able to use the pre-summer inflation warnings to intervene during the summer.Why is that, ladies and gentlemen? It is a pity that the Prime Minister is not here, but that is because of the Croo and De Bleeker method. Let us be honest, the budgetary negotiations of this government have meanwhile become more predictable than an episode of the Champions. Firstly, the problems are constantly being pushed forward and dragged on. Secondly, it is only at the very last minute that a meeting begins. Thirdly, the negotiations are always dragging us to a hole in the night. Fourthly, there is always someone who walks away from the government table with great sense of drama. Fifthly, the gap in the budget is finally closed with many hundreds of millions from the fight against fraud and many hundreds of millions from magical job creation. Fight against fraud and jobs, the classic budget closing points. I believe that this is a good way to summarize the October budget negotiations. That is how this government drags itself from budget to budget. In the past, budgetary conclaves in this country were already launched before 21 July. In the summer. In the Netherlands, for example, budget negotiations are also taking place in the summer. However, the Croo government has postponed the preparation of the budget until after the summer holidays. Because of this method - De Croo and -De Bleeker, this government has not succeeded in calculating inflation warnings in time and already during the summer the crater in the budget has been contained. Therefore, the discussion on savings and investment had to be conducted in full together with other important socio-economic issues. The consequences are well known: no serious budgetary work has been carried out and no decisions or reforms have been taken in the important socio-economic dossiers. Just think of the ageing population, the pension debate, the tax reforms, the increase in the efficiency rate, and last but not least the nuclear power plants: all files that were pushed forward in the autumn. By this method-De Croo and -De Bleeker color all parameters of public finances in this country blood red. I'm giving you some worrying facts. Firstly, next year's combined government deficit will be 5% or as much as EUR 25 billion and will continue to increase in the coming years if policies remain unchanged. In the long run, that's unsustainable. Secondly, according to the IMF, Belgium will have the highest structural deficit in the EU. Problem countries such as Spain, France, Italy and even Greece are doing a lot better. Thirdly, next year's public debt will continue to rise to a record level of 115 %. Belgium is therefore the only country in the EU where debt will increase further next year. Fourthly, Belgian public expenditure is at 55% of the highest in Europe. The gap with our neighbouring countries has increased even further in those 20 years when the liberals are part of the Belgian governments. Fifth, Belgium will become the slowest growth rate in all euro area countries in 2022. That's the destructive bilan of De Croo and De Bleeker. Previously liberals in this country attached their own credibility to the budget. In the meantime, this time seems to be a long way behind us. The way in which this budget was drawn up is therefore neither serious nor its content. The method- The Croo and De Bleeker fail all over the line. This government is also failing to cope with future crises. That's not just what we say. That's what the governor of the National Bank says."We have no buffers when there is a new economic crisis. And there will be, the only question is when. If we do not build buffers, a Greek scenario will be imminent in five years' time. Then the most vulnerable are the greatest victims." Those are not the words of the Flemish interest. Those are the prophetic words of the governor of the National Bank. Colleagues, the price increases were therefore not sufficiently identified in time as a challenge for the budget. But the second risk that we warned of is not being prepared in any way by this government. This rise in inflation will, of course, also increase the risk of higher interest rates in the near future. Interest rate increases are dramatic for debt-sick countries such as Belgium. To put everything in perspective, a few digits. This government has made a debatable budgetary effort of EUR 2 billion. The rise in interest rates of only 1% is already leading to an increase in interest charges in this country by just under EUR 1 billion. Thus, many billions of euros could have an indirect impact on the budget, which has not been taken into account today. A steep rise in interest rates will derail the country's finances quite quickly. The federal government committed itself in the government agreement to an annual fixed effort of 0.2 percent of GDP, which, moreover, the IMF believes is too low to control ageing costs alone. The Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker, launched this summer a proposal for a total budgetary effort of EUR 3 billion. However, her proposals immediately clashed with a njet of the PS, which made it clear again who ultimately is the real boss in the federal government. It must be clear to everyone in this House that the price paid by Open Vld for premiership is very high. Liberals have little or nothing to say in socio-economic and budgetary matters. The PS is quits and disposes. In the end, the government landed somewhere on a budget effort of EUR 2.4 billion. The Prime Minister is not here right now, but he forgot to mention in the government statement that there is 0.4 billion new policies, leaving 2 billion. There is also another half a billion in one-off measures, leaving only one and a half billion euros of effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u6	Colleague, you are making your analysis of the position of the Open Vld in this purple green government. I'm following that analysis. She's right. The Open Vld always draws the short straw when it comes to socio-economic issues and dances to the tune of the left-wing PS. That is very clear. If you do that analysis on socio-economic dossiers, I wonder why the Flemish interest actually goes along with the reasoning of Alexander De Croo's left-wing PS government in many of these cases. How can one rhyme with another?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u7	That is very easy to answer, and I am glad that you are asking that question. In a budget debate, in a Belgian context and with a vivaldi government, we never touch the sacred houses. That is not the millions of flows, but the billions of flows. Let me name them. Firstly, the billion-dollar bill of migration: we agree that it needs to be dealt with. Secondly, the EUR 7 billion per year contribution to the European Union: if we negotiate a reduction, we can already close part of the budget gap. Of course, I am also talking about the billions transfer from Flanders to Wallonia. Let us have that debate, I think we agree on that. And, of course, the whole political system in Belgium, think of death homes such as the Senate and the provincial level: these are all matters that need to be abolished and saved. Then, as the Flemish Interest also aims, we can pursue a social policy for our own people first. That's what the Flemish Interest wants. Let us save on those billions of bills so that we can maintain our social security for the hardworking Flemings. That's the difference with what the Vivaldi coalition does. She makes a budget without talking about those sacred houses. There is no talk of this, they do not come to the negotiating table, but there are many billions to be raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u8	Mr Vermeersch, you did not answer my question. You have referred above all to matters which are not strictly economic and social matters. One of the major differences between the N-VA and the Flemish interest is that you want to divide your own population into certain sections of the population, one taking a certain benefit from social security and the other not. We are based on the freedom and responsibility of all who contribute. That's a big difference. We consider this responsibility to be very important. It's just that I think it's so weird. When I say that the Flemish interest is concentrated in many socio-economic issues in the policy of Alexander De Croo's left-wing government, it's just about that gift policy, about handing out gifts to people who don't take responsibility. That's something I don't understand. You're doing the analysis of Open Vld's position within this government and you're suing it. You are right in that respect, but in the facts you do something completely different and dance very often to the tune of the government you are trying to fight now. I wonder how one can be reconciled with the other. That cannot be reconciled, and that is clear from your answer, which was not really an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u9	Mr Anseuw, it has been said a number of times that your party wants to save on social security. We do not want to do that, except on one aspect, and that is to create a separate social security for newcomers. Those plans are not unrealistic. They exist in Denmark, where that government policy is. We had those plans calculated by the Planning Bureau. Depending on the modalities, savings of between EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 5 billion can be made. The Flemish interest does not want to save on the social security of the hardworking Fleming, but on the social security of the newcomer and I think this is a debate that needs to be held. I hear you say that the N-VA has not been won for a separate social security for newcomers, of which we are certainly in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u10	Mr Vermeersch, I think that is a rather special answer. First of all, you say that you want to spend more effectively on social benefits. You confirm what Björn Anseuw says: more gifts for anyone who wants to appeal to support. Secondly, you do not answer Mr Anseuw's question, particularly for whom the invoice is for. You are proposing great plans that you are well aware will not be realised by this government. However, we know that there is a large invoice attached to your plans and to the government plans, which will end up somewhere immediately. We know who will pay this invoice, namely mainly the Flemings, because in Flanders most people are working and the tax capacity in Flanders is higher. Apparently, none of that can be named, but those are just statistical facts. Mr Vermeersch, it would be a good thing for you to take some responsibility too, or just to be honest in your communication. The latter can by saying that it is all yours if the country goes bankrupt, and if the Flemings will feel that in their portfolio, then so be it, because the end justifies the means. At least that's not our approach. We go for responsibility, where the Flemings are not punished. You're going for something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u11	Mr Loones, it seems that you did not listen carefully to the first part of my speech, because in it I said that we will not pay the invoices by millions, but by checking the billions of invoices, in particular migration, the European Union, the political system and transfers. As I understand it, the previous government did not want to touch the transfers, which is your political responsibility. We can pay the invoice. To save, we propose a separate social security for newcomers, which can save up to EUR 5 billion. I think this is a very clear answer to the question of how we will pay the invoice and where we will save it. How everything is arranged with you is more woolly. Madam President, savings, a budgetary effort of EUR 2.4 billion were foreseen. The Prime Minister forgot €0.4 billion in new policies, leaving a saving of €2 billion. Half a billion in one-off measures left 1.5 billion of them. The Court of Auditors noted finely that the securities tax was double counted, for an amount of 0.4 billion euros, leaving an effort of only 1.1 billion euros, equivalent to 0.2 percent of GDP. This government has therefore made no significant budgetary effort at all. The PS finally got its way. Each budgetary effort shall be re-spent immediately. This PS-dominated government clearly does not intend to smooth out the ill finances of this country. Vivaldi has postponed the real budgetary effort to next year. As from 2023, the European Union will probably re-apply the budgetary rules. Even Mr Van Peteghem argues in favour of this in the Eurogroup. Belgium was allowed to pause the fiscal rules for a while during the corona crisis and used them, provided that the sustainability of public finances was not compromised. That condition probably disappeared somewhere in the cellar of Rue de la Loi 16. The budgetary exercise last October was, of course, the moment to adjust. If next year's economy attracts again, there will also be some room to intervene. It should have happened by now. After all, Belgian governments are afraid to intervene in the second half of their term, with the prospect of elections. As far as the Flemish interest is concerned, the government certainly did not have to clean up blindly, but a minimum of seriousness and effort was needed to protect the credibility of budgetary policy. However, the PS is the boss in Vivaldi and wants the money crane to remain open mainly from Flanders and the hardworking Flemings. As a result, this country continues to decline in budgetary terms due to a complete lack of political will to get things in order and to make political choices about the core tasks of the government, the torrential taxes in this country, the never-resolved pension file and the far too low level of activity in the labour market, especially in Wallonia. There would be no new taxes under this government, except for budgetary discussions with respect for people who work, undertake and save. Nothing is less true: those who work, save and undertake do indeed pay more taxes today. The list of new taxes of this government includes 20 million euros of VAT at the dentist and physicist, a new health tax; 40 billion euros of boarding tax, a new flight tax; 43 million euros of more expensive fines by Mr Van Quickenborne, a new administrative tax; 66 million euros of non-indexation of tax reductions and tax exemptions, a new hidden tax; 100 million euros of the abolition of professional diesel, a new transport tax; 153 million euros of a plastic tax, a new European tax; 270 million euros of extra VAT on small packages, a new consumption tax; 430 million euros of securities tax, a new capital tax and 640 million euros of higher excise duties on tobacco, a new pest tax. I can go on like this for a while, colleagues. This vivaldi government is an unadulterated tax government. Liberals have not promised new taxes, but since the start of this government, the hard-working Flemings have been forced to take tax after tax and that in the country with the highest tax rate in the world. We will continue to oppose this for the sake of clarity. Save on asylum and migration policy, on the political system and on transfers, so that those who work, save and make can finally pay a little less tax. The government agreement also stipulated that budgetary efforts would be spread over a third expenditure, a third revenue and a third miscellaneous. However, the budget does not provide any information on this distribution. Moreover, the table of savings measures shows that most of the measures relate to revenue. That is literally what the Court of Auditors' comment on the budget says, and I quote: 'Most of the measures relate to revenue'. Revenue, so new taxes. It will only get worse with Vivaldi, colleagues. Minister Van Peteghem and this government are working on a so-called broad fiscal reform. A number of proposals have been leaked into the press. There is a tax on real rental income, the reduction of the tax benefit of pension savings and long-term savings, new capital taxes, the additional taxation of companies, sole proprietors and self-employed persons and even, at these times of price increases, the further increase of VAT from 21% to 22%. One has to dare. Minister Van Peteghem announces to anyone who wants to hear that there will be no taboos in his tax reform if it is on the government table. Contrary to what he says, there is indeed a taboo on the so-called broad fiscal reform. This vivaldi government excludes tax cuts in advance and in one of the most taxed countries in the world. That too must be dared. The Walloon Region has a budget in which Greece pales. The other Walloon levels of government also have huge problems. The municipalities are already looking at the Region for the pension costs of their officials. In the French Community, the Minister for the Budget, Frédéric Daerden, recently reiterated that the Community's budgetary situation after 2030 is no longer sustainable. Money, a lot of money, will be needed for Wallonia. This was also confirmed by Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo. We need more money not only to pay off Wallonia's enormous debts from the past, but also to rebuild important parts of the region. A slight increase in interest rates, or a slowdown in growth, not to mention a new unexpected catastrophe, could put Wallonia in a Greek scenario. That does not frighten us as Flemish nationalists, on the contrary. In such a budgetary context, yet another state reform will no longer provide a way out of this. The dramatic financial situation of this country, especially in southern Belgium, will require more drastic intervention. In this country, we have to deal with the too much power. This will require a more thorough re-drawing of the state structure. Tough cutting in the way too big a government attachment. Improving the provision of services to citizens, our people. Reconstruct the affected areas. The far too generous culture of subsidies at all levels of policy and its many excesses stop, isn't it, Open Vld colleagues? In the current state of the finances of this indebted country, institutional reform means far more than transferring some powers and abolishing political retirement and death homes such as the Senate and the provinces. It is high time to completely reduce the money-consuming federal as well as the provincial level. To stop the billion-dollar transfers in this country. To finally split up social security. To firmly renegotiate our billions of contributions to Europe. To close the money supply for the many migrants, asylum seekers and other lucky seekers in this country. If we do not do so ourselves, colleagues from the traditional parties and Walloon friends, if we do not do so ourselves, here in this House, then the budgetary context of Belgium, one of the weakest and most guilty countries in Europe, will force us to do so sooner rather than later. We, Flemish nationalists, are standing by. We're prepared. Belgium and Wallonia derail; Flanders is the solution for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u12	Madam President, I have had my colleague's speech finished, and there has also been some discussion. In the meantime, we are 25 minutes away, and the Prime Minister's chair is still empty. However, I see on the list of speakers that we are engaged in the general discussion. Of course, the Secretary of State is more than welcome, but if I am not mistaken it is programmed for the thematic discussion that will take place shortly; perhaps the Prime Minister will replace her, I do not know. I find the PM's absence inappropriate. I believe that Mr De Vriendt, who has just left the hemisphere, has just bragded about the respectful way in which this majority deals with Parliament. This really isn't an illustration of that. The general discussion of the budget and the expenditure budget is the high day of the parliamentary year and the Prime Minister does not even send his cat. I don't think this is possible. That is why I wish to bring forward the Prime Minister, unless it is now said that he cannot be here because of a personal accident, which I really do not wish him to be. Then I didn't say anything, but we don't have any information on that. I can see in the media that there's a crisis going on in the government. Maybe that's the explanation why he's running real politics outside this house. But that, in my opinion, is not a good reason to just brow this highlight of the parliamentary year. So I can only ask that Mr Piedbœuf's undoubtedly interesting intervention, perhaps also about nuclear energy, we will wait and see, and I am pleased that I am not keeping it in the absence of the Prime Minister, who is undoubtedly also very interested in the position of the MR on how to do and leave this government. That's why I'm suing the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u13	It had been announced in the Conference of Presidents that the Prime Minister would be there as far as possible because there are news as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u14	Madam President, it was announced earlier that a meeting of the nuclear cabinet would take place at 7 p.m. in preparation for tomorrow's Consultative Committee. That's a good reason. That's what we're going with. We could also be difficult to do about this; the nuclear cabinet could adapt to Parliament, which is not so crazy, but we are a very reasonable opposition. So I want to understand that, and we will move in the order of the ministers. That is not the point, however. "As far as possible" is a bit like the whole of this budget. That's gray and unclear. I would like to know why it is not possible for the Prime Minister to be here. If there is a serious explanation for this, then I am reasonable enough to take that into account. However, we are totally in the dark. He won't even tell us why he left us here and didn't come back. This morning, the Prime Minister took the floor meaningfully at several times. It is now about the general discussion. My paper here says on behalf of GOV, which is the abbreviation for government, Alexander De Croo. I don't see him. He's not here. Otherwise, we will have to suspend the sitting until he can. That's also a possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u15	Madam President, the Prime Minister states that he is in preparation for the Consultation Committee and that he can come here in 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u16	We didn't start incredibly fast either. At 2:30 p.m., it turned out to be 2:30 p.m. I would ask that we suspend the sitting for these 45 minutes so that the Prime Minister can fully enjoy Mr Piedboeuf's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u17	You can always ask. However, this is not the agreement. It was requested that the Prime Minister be present for most of the work and, in particular, for the general debate. That's why his name appears. He's been here all morning. He's gone for three quarters of an hour and you want to suspend the work! Is this your debate? It seems to me that we can continue. The government is represented. Prime Minister joins us and we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u18	So I understand that we should be very happy that the Prime Minister has been here for three or four hours. This is the body that controls the government, let's assume that for a moment. He is now absent because he is preparing the Consultative Committee. Soon he will be absent because he will prepare the Consultative Committee with the nuclear cabinet. I suspect he will be absent after that sitting because he will allow the discussion of the preparation of the nuclear cabinet to take place. I suspect that he will then be unable to attend during the night because he is preparing for the nuclear cabinet and then for the Consultative Committee. This is too ridiculous for words, isn't it? If the Prime Minister is to be here within 45 minutes, that is not only a matter of respect for the Chamber but even a matter of respect for the speaker in the Chamber. If I am not misinformed, the following three speakers will be members of the majority. Is the Prime Minister's contempt for his own coalition such that he says that we should just discuss it, that he will hear it and read it in the paper, that someone will send a text message when something is said but that he cannot free himself from it? Where are we on the Prime Minister's list of priorities? That's what I want to know. Where is this House on the President of the executive's list of priorities, when we are the legislative, controlling power? In addition, Madam President, I would like to hear from the services how often the Prime Minister has not attended the general discussion in the past. I have a very bad memory, but I think he usually has the respect to be there. That's just his deontological duty, too. As President of the Chamber, not as a sidecar of the government, you should act as defender of this House. You're not the government's attorney, that's Mrs. De Bleeker. That's her role, not yours. You are our attorney, you must represent the interests of the Chamber here. That means we want to wait for the Prime Minister to arrive. If that can only be done within 45 minutes, then that is a pity but then no wheel is finished. Maybe he'll finish that preparation a little faster. However, we cannot have this discussion in the absence of the Prime Minister, it is unlikely that you would allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u19	Mr De Roover, I hear you are questioning my presidency. If I propose to continue, it is for the 150 people who must follow our assembly. You do not reflect all 150 people. It is also my duty to let you know and report it. If a majority emerges to suspend work, we will suspend it. I want to hear from the other group leaders. I see signs to continue the work. There is a majority to continue the work. We have a government representative and this government is collegial. The Prime Minister will join us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u20	I ask for the vote on my proposal to be taken as part of the government or as an independent Member of Parliament responsible for the proper functioning of this Parliament. I am sure of all the voices of Ecolo-Groen, because they constantly stumble about the word respect in their own discourse. We've already won it for this vote. I am also very curious about the self-respect of the rest, because that is what I am putting to the vote. The Prime Minister should be here and I ask for the vote on my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u21	Madam President, Mr De Roover said that if the Prime Minister had a good reason to be absent, he would understand that. I believe that preparing possible decisions with the experts is in the general interest of our people, as is discussing their report. I think this is serious enough. Stop yelling, you can call out whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u22	Madam President, I hear Mr De Roover's calls for respect for Parliament. But respect for the word given is also important. However, in the report of the Conference of Presidents, which I have before me, it is clearly stated that the Prime Minister would ensure, as far as possible, a maximum presence, een maximum aanwezigheid. So things are very clear. This is a question of the word given. You were present, Mr De Roover, as was Mr Loones, at the Conference of Presidents. We are therefore continuing our work. It is a matter of respect for the word given. To date, the agreement reached in the Conference of Presidents, in which all parties are represented, has always been respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u23	If one calls this maximum presence, then words have no meaning anymore. Mr De Block, we did not say that the Prime Minister should not be talking to the experts for the preparation. I just asked to suspend this meeting for 45 minutes. After all, he said he could be here in 45 minutes, which means that the consultation with the experts will be over within 45 minutes. I respect that, but my proposal is not that he should stop those talks and rush right here. I didn't suggest that. I have proposed suspending for 45 minutes so that he can do that preparation in full seriousness. Mrs De Block, your insinuation that we would make a serious preparation of the Conciliation Committee impossible is unworthy of a Member of Parliament with your experience. You are carrying out an intention process here that is not in line with the proposal I have made. I would therefore like you to apologise for this, because I want to prepare the Conciliation Committee properly. It is an extremely important matter. However, there is no reason why one should stand in the way of another. Forty-five minutes was said here. I believe the government occasionally, for example, when she says that the Prime Minister can be here in 45 minutes. To suspend for 45 minutes means that he can seriously prepare the Consultative Committee and then be present in Parliament when the general budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u24	I didn't insinuate anything. I repeated your own words. If what the Prime Minister was doing was important, you would understand. I then said that the preparation of the Consultation Committee with the experts was important. I did not say that you do not think that is important, but you are now saying that you want to suspend, despite the preparation with the experts. Then I conclude that you don't really think that's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u25	I propose to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u26	Mr De Roover, in fact, we would not be in a situation as problematic and difficult as the health crisis with a Prime Minister who would not be present among us, that would not fail to question, including on the benches of the majority. Let's be clear! In absolute terms, should the Prime Minister be there? Yes. Will a Codeco take place tomorrow in the extremely difficult context with demands coming from everywhere, experts to be able to listen to, arbitrations to be carried out, preparations for a meeting that is announced to be decisive for the coming weeks? The answer is yes. In this context, on the part of the majority, we also appeal to the sense of the balance of opposition parties. If we can continue our work knowing that the Prime Minister will come back in half an hour, three quarters of an hour, if I understand correctly, that we can hear Mr Piedboeuf if he agrees to speak in the presence of the Secretary of State for the Budget who is still the central minister in this debate, that seems to me to be a good balance. I call for a balance that may allow us to work in good conditions. At the same time, everyone must, of course, respect the rights of everyone for a good parliamentary debate. Madam President, this is my contribution. If it could calm things down!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u27	Just so we're clear, we didn't start at 2:00, we started at 2:30. That half-hour wasn't a problem. I don't know what happened, everyone was in the starting blocks, we had another glass of water, went to the bathroom and so on and so on. That half an hour has passed without any history. But the fact that the Prime Minister could be present if we started earlier raises some questions. After all, it is, I repeat, a compromise proposal. I told you earlier that I was going to make progress with the Prime Minister. That's when we got the text and the explanation. I understand the situation. So I'm not taking him on right now. By this I mean that I shall not be taking it until the time has passed which he, as has just been said, needs to propose the Consultative Committee in a serious way, for which I fully understand. This is my compromise proposal: not that he should stop this discussion, not that he should go straight into an Uber and come here, but that he should have the opportunity to complete the discussion fully, and we should have the opportunity to conduct the budget talks in full. The Prime Minister had just been absent from the speech of a member of the opposition. It's not for me to say anything about that. If it were my group, I would of course have said something about it. Now we are also talking about members of the majority. Don't you think it's important that he's here? Is that a detail in a budget discussion? I would also like to point out once again that Mrs De Bleeker, whom I repeat, is very welcome to raise a number. You're gonna be here in a few minutes. At the moment, I am not very interested in Mrs De Bleeker's answers. After all, these questions will soon be asked. And then she should, as planned, be present. Now I am interested in the general discussion and how the Prime Minister reacts. That is why my proposal is that (a) all respect should be given to parliamentary work, and (b) all respect should be given to the preparations which the Prime Minister, quite rightly, intends to take seriously for the Consultative Committee. What's the price I'm asking for that? That's that we're suspending for 15 minutes longer than we started the afternoon session too late. I think that is a very reasonable proposal. I would ask the majority of my fellow Members to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u28	Madam President, I hear the arguments on both sides. I find that Mr Laaouej notes wise, very wise and interesting things. At the same time, referring to this morning's debate, I think that our interaction with the Prime Minister, these speeches, these speeches and even those applause may have given rise to quite particular interest. This presence and interaction with the head of government can be interesting. If it may be available in a reasonable time, why not suspend the session until it returns. If it is five hours, then it would be difficult to wait for it so long. As time passes, in half an hour, he'll be back. Let us therefore suspend the sitting or then debate during this time so that we can agree whether or not to be present. In this case, you might as well suspend the meeting for 30 minutes. We will resume with Mr. Piedboeuf and the Prime Minister. This can be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u29	It's still the most extraordinary place I've ever had to go in my life!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u30	I propose a ten-minute suspension of our work. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u31	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. We shall resume our work in the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we thought, we hoped the opposite would happen, but we must note that we are still in the midst of a health, economic and social crisis. Experts predict that we will have to learn to live with the virus and thus adapt our social and economic ways of working. All right! The Plan Office and the National Bank announce that 2022 will be a year of recovery. Economic growth figures are in line with the recovery with GDP growth of between 3 and 3.6%. At the budgetary level, the European Commission has pointed out that the outlook for public finances remains marked by a high level of uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic projections, including the risks associated with the evolution of the pandemic and its possible long-term effects. So it's between hope and uncertainty that you made, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, the budget for next year, that the program bill intends to translate. You are presenting 2022 as a pivotal year for our country. While we are embarking on a necessary fiscal recovery, we must continue to support the economic growth that has developed more favourably than expected, to take care of the citizen and to provide him with the necessary opportunities. The government therefore presents a responsible 2022 budget which leads to a controlled deficit for entity I estimated at 3.2% of GDP by the Monitoring Committee. An additional effort of €2.4 billion, or 0.5% of GDP compared to what is foreseen in the government agreement, will be made to support new initiatives while ensuring that the deficit is absorbed. The Court of Auditors welcomed the presence of a long-term vision including a series of major reforms in the labour market, reforms also in the areas of investment, climate transition, digitalisation, as well as tax reforms with a tax slide, a first of EUR 225 million with the aim of reducing the promotion trap for low and medium incomes and to strengthen purchasing power. For its part, the European Commission has considered that the measures announced in the draft budget plan are in line with its recommendations. Despite the efforts to be made, the budget contains measures to support our businesses, employment and the purchasing power of workers. The government will deploy a modernisation and investment plan that will focus on the elements that are a source of innovation in our society, namely digitisation and sustainable development, worth €1 billion, which will be invested in particular in the coming years. On the other hand, the government is taking up the problem of rising energy prices. I will not go back to that, as this topic has already been discussed this morning. Other important provisions have been drawn up for the benefit of citizens. As in 2020, it is planned to assimilate temporary unemployment for force majeure covid in the case of annual holidays. Thus, workers who have suffered a loss of income will receive the full amount of their vacation pay in 2022. Therefore, they will not be subjected to double punishment. The victims of last July's floods are also affected by this measure. The same applies to the end-of-year premiums in the horeca sector, for which the government has again decided to assimilate the days of unemployment for force majeure covid and to provide funding of 66 million euros. As we all know, this sector has been one of the hardest hit. You had to answer him. Moreover, and this is fundamental, the amounts intended to guarantee the financing of our social security system, while waiting for a return to normal of alternative financing. In total, 10.3 billion are programmed for the wage-earning scheme and 2.2 billion for the independent scheme, in order to ensure the balance of our social security which has proved its usefulness in recent months. Finally, the care sector has been particularly under stress since March 2020, faced with a shortage of labour, in particular due to staff who have fallen ill or have been quarantined. The difficulties observed on the ground must be overcome. To this end, an extension of measures to neutralize the accumulation of professional income with pension income is planned until 30 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u33	Mr Piedboeuf, you were just talking about social security and the health care sector. It is true that today the health care system is crumbling, not just because of the covid crisis. The hospital in Herstal, for example, had to close its emergencies, in the end only one day, under the threat of the minister. UZ Gent has decided to close units. We have signals from the ground that the situation in hospitals is very difficult. As has been mentioned, this is indeed the continuation of the covid crisis, but also the continuation of the savings that have been made by previous governments, for example under Mrs Wilmès. At that time, we had 900 million euros in cuts in health care. This government has indeed decided to perpetuate the White Blouse Fund among other things and to grant wage increases. A billion have been invested in health care. Today, we see that this is really not enough compared to what is happening in hospitals. We have 19,000 nurses who have left the health care sector. The measures that have been taken in the past year have ultimately not attracted nurses to this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u34	I was going to continue on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u35	That's very good. So you're going to answer me directly. At the PTB, we think it's time to increase the pace, to invest more in our health care. It is true that with regard to the White Blouse Fund, at first you almost insulted us when we tabled the proposal in Parliament: it was populist, it was not possible! In the end, you put yourself behind this idea and, as MR, you also wanted to invest more in health care. For us, three things are essential: raising wages in the health care sector by 10% linearly. That is what we are putting on the table today through an amendment. Secondly, we want to ensure that night, Saturday and Sunday benefits...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u36	Mrs. Merckx, you're at the end of two minutes. I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u37	I'm gonna go faster and close. We want to ensure that night, Saturday and Sunday benefits are paid at 100 and 200 per cent, and that the original White Blouse Fund is doubled, which has not created as many jobs as we wanted, especially as caregivers leave the profession. My question is very simple: will the MR support our amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u38	With regard to your comment on the White Blouse Fund, I know an intercommunal health care in the province of Luxembourg. The white blouses fund allocated allows him to hire 100 nurses and the means of his own make it possible to hire 80 of them. Vivalia, in the province of Luxembourg, can therefore hire 180 nurses but there is not one! It is therefore not just a problem of financing, it is also a problem of presence, with competition from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. There are not enough nurses, especially because of the famous white year we've known. The question of the financing of social security goes back to the table on a regular basis. It is therefore important to involve everyone within their means. In this way, the social system of high-performance athletes will be reviewed in the future. They will be fully integrated into the general service of the security – this is a matter of justice – with nevertheless measures to support the clubs and not put them in trouble. When we talk about the financing of social security, we must obviously also mention the employment rate. In this regard, the target group of disabled workers is given greater attention by the government, not to attack people but to accompany them in the resumption of their work when they wish. Another element included in the project is the transitional allowance. The hearings held in the Social Affairs Committee revealed the human, organisational and financial impact of a spouse's death, especially when dependent children are still present. In another area, I can only welcome the sustainability of the zero contribution measure, which supports self-employed and SMEs who are reluctant to take the step of the first commitment. This is clearly an employment support measure. For example, there are no fewer than 2,195 jobs created as a result of this measure, bringing the number of employers concerned to 52,556 in the period January 2020 to January 2021. Provisions are made to prevent abuse, ensure the effectiveness of this measure and ensure its sustainability. It is mainly the construction and horeca sectors that use it, the same ones that today are the most heavily impacted by the crisis. In terms of tax measures, we look forward to the mini-tax shift announced next April. The government will thus continue the work initiated during the previous legislature by reducing the tax and parafiscal burden on work for both employees and civil servants and the self-employed. The mini tax shift is just a first step. It will have to integrate harmoniously into the tax reform planned under this legislature by 2024. It is a heavy task that awaits and we will support the Minister of Finance. However, it will be necessary to organise a very broad consultation on reform with not only the Higher Council of Finance and the Academies, but also civil society, tax professionals and entrepreneurs. In a country where labour income is one of the most taxed in the world, for us, tax reform can only have one goal: to reduce the tax burden on the working and middle classes. We have proposals to make and we will have the opportunity to present them when we study this file. We welcome the increase in the deduction of child care taxes from EUR 11.50 to EUR 14 per day, which will facilitate the lives of parents in the context of the resumption of pre-work. For our startups, we welcome the strengthening of the current tax shelter system with a doubling of the maximum amounts, which will allow companies to raise sufficient capital to finance their growth and innovation. This will have a positive impact on economic dynamics and employment in Belgium. The aim is to help SMEs with a local anchor and strong growth potential. I'm going back a little bit, having passed a page listening to you. With regard to the health care budget, it can be seen that it has been greatly increased not only to take account of the technical estimates of INAMI, but also to incorporate an additional investment of 1.2 billion (White Blouse Fund, social agreement of the care sectors and development of various tools). This budget has increased by 7.5% compared to 2020. In addition, the amount of EUR 1.221 billion was provided for in 2021 through an interdepartmental provision for the financing of the covid's supplementary expenditure. From 2022 onwards, the amount of the overall budgetary objective beyond the adjustment to the index will be increased each year in real terms by 2.5%. In accordance with the government agreement, these resources will be used for priority health care objectives as defined in the INAMI multi-year project. Efforts are concentrated on four pillars. First of all, just under EUR 49 million will be invested in integrated care and care routes based on cooperation between the general practitioner and all primary care providers, sometimes specialist doctors and other care providers in order to improve patient monitoring, including secondary and tertiary prevention. Secondly, more than 61 million euros will be invested in accessibility, with the improvement of financial protection of the lowest incomes, by lowering the maximum ceiling to 250 euros, the abolition of the third-party payment ban – which must be supplemented by accompanying measures. Thirdly, a substantial investment of EUR 45 million is planned to increase the reimbursement of social security, dental and oral care. Next, more than €13 million will be invested in more appropriate care, such as adapted physiotherapy for patients with cerebral palsy. The fourth pillar aims at improving the quality of life. In 2022, attention will be paid to Advance Care Planning through an awareness campaign for care providers and the general public. With regard to hospital financing, reforms in the hospital sector, which have already begun, will be continued and adjusted if necessary. This funding will be reviewed in depth and simplified with the aim of introducing funding on the basis of justified and transparent costs, depending on the pathology and by admission. In addition, a plan will be implemented to reduce fee supplements by also paying attention to the outpatient sector. The latest hospital barometer of the InterMutualist Agency shows that in 2019, a total of 1.38 billion euros was charged to patients during acute hospital stays on an amount reimbursed by the health insurance of 6 billion euros. Just under half of the amount – 610 million euros – is fee supplements. These increase from year to year. In 2006, fee supplements accounted for 13.7% of fees. In 2019, they represent 18.6%. In accordance with the government agreement, we will examine whether some of the funding can be made at the network level and the necessary action will be taken in this regard. Our hospitals must be funded so that they can provide quality and sustainable care to which all patients must have access. At the beginning of the legislature, considerable investments were made for healthcare staff, including in the hospital sector, with the White Blouse Fund – which you mentioned – and the social agreement. As a result, the budget for financial resources increased significantly structurally from €8.27 billion in 2019 to €9.483 billion in 2021. The Social Agreement 2021-2022, which provides for the financing of the qualitative improvement of working conditions in the federal care sectors through wage measures and measures to improve working conditions, will be implemented. In addition to the budget of EUR 350 million for 2021, a budget of EUR 250 million for the year 2022 is provided for the financing of health care institutions in the federal health sectors. That is the social security and hospital component. So it's considerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u39	Mr Piedboeuf, you have listed a lot of things, even things that are not included in the program law at all. They are contained in some agreements, but they are not yet subject to implementation here, in any case in the project in question. You have raised the problem of the shortage of nurses, which is even more important in the province of Luxembourg in particular. I repeat the question I have already asked: do you support the correction that we are proposing here today in relation to the White Blouse Fund in its first version? It is a question of hiring more staff, but as we have seen that this is not enough to get nurses back, we need to plan for a 10% wage increase across the sector. That's what we're proposing. We believe that this can really respond to this shortage that you are describing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u40	I told you: on the one hand, it is not just a matter of money; on the other, I am in favour of a sustainable policy. And a sustainable policy, it's reflected, it's funded. We're making financial plans to see how we can do it. If one decides to increase by 10%, the other, which are currently under negotiation, could also ask for an increase. And then more, and then more! You can't think about a big increase – 10%, it's not nothing! – only if we plan the revenues to pay them. Of course, we want to increase a whole series of professions that deserve it, and that are often – it is true – in direct contact with major difficulties. It's a staff that suffers. Of course! Everyone is aware of this. On the other hand, we must afford it. Different means exist. We're going to talk about the fight against tax fraud, etc. That goes without saying. But we must give ourselves the means to succeed in improving the situation of the population. Such a measure, that you get out of your hat, is nice, but we have to study it financially, because we can't stand this kind of thing like that, slamming fingers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u41	I take note. I'm a little surprised. I thought you were defending the professions, the nurses, among other things. You're not for a salary increase. However, listening to the actors on the ground is what is needed. There is not only pay but also hard work, working on irregular schedules. We really need to invest in this. It takes money, but we have planned that, Mr. Piedboeuf. We also table an amendment for our millionaire tax. Eight billion recipes! We have the solution!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u42	There's an overbid between you and Mr. Van Hees on the number of billions we're going to get! Look, I know a lot about health care. Not only with regard to general practitioners since my daughter is, but also with regard to hospital health care. I'm really familiar with this file. And we don't take money anyhow from anywhere. You have the millionaire tax. Mr Van Hees, it's fun, I read earlier that China is producing an extra billionaire a day. It's beautiful, a communist system manages to create billionaires. We should learn from it, but we'll see about it later!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u43	What's crazy with you Liberals is that you don't answer the question. You're talking about a shortage of staff. So you're having the problem that in hospitals, reinforcements are missing. That's why people are in burn-out in the area. Stop pretending that the covid is the only one responsible! It's also because people are exhausted and reinforcements are not coming. That's the problem. You've had a year to think about how to solve it, but you're not bringing any solutions here. The problem is indeed wages, but also – and it is important for you Liberals – the fact that you have removed all the mechanisms of pre-pension. How dare you ask nurses to work up to 63 years with 42 years of career? Aren't you ashamed? How do you want people to get involved in this sector? They're dead dead! You've removed the pre-pensions. It's easy for the right: you delete, you delete, there are only numbers. But there are lives behind the numbers! I ask you to clearly define your position. Do you find it normal that we have to work in the care sector for up to 63 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u44	You didn't hear what I said. When I was talking about the financing of social security, I was also talking about the employment and the number of jobs created to finance social security. Money doesn't fall from the sky, Mr. Hedebouw! Frankly, it's not just a financial problem. Students must also leave school. The white year created a hole that we all know. As far as extending working time is concerned, I know a large number of nurses who do not cry because working time is extended. People who love their profession and do it well, they want to continue. I know a lot of people like that! When we talk about hospital reform, we also talk about standards of supervision. We know we need to review these standards. When management standards are reviewed, we will see if things are improving for staff who are in high demand and suffering. But I would like to tell you that all the nurses I know do not share your vision!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u45	Mr Piedboeuf, I have a very specific question for you. We have made the calculation and I refer to the list I have just made: since the start of the government, as much as EUR 1.5 billion of new taxes have been added. The Court of Auditors' report states on page 40 in its comments on the budget that the increase of EUR 1.1 billion in tax revenue "is due to the offset of the impact of fiscal measures as decided during the budgetary conclave of 20 October." There will be a further EUR 1.1 billion in taxes next year. That means adding EUR 1.1 billion to EUR 1.5 billion, EUR 2.6 in tax. At the same time, Mr Piedboeuf, in the La Libre Belgique, leaked proposals on the broad fiscal reform include a tax bracket of up to 60% in the personal income tax, as well as three new capital taxes. With regard to pensions, we want to eliminate the tax advantage for pension savings and long-term savings. The abolition and reduction of the 80% rule for self-employed workers is a matter of concern. There is talk of a greater burden on sole proprietorship. Your chairman then responded on Twitter with the words: there should not be a tax shift, but a tax down. But if we allow the government to continue while the broad fiscal reform is still far from being seen, we will not be able to reach a tax down, nor a tax shift, but a tax up, a tax increase. Where does it end for the MR? We have not had to count on Open Vld for a long time, and the Prime Minister is no longer standing up for such matters. What will you do? What can we expect from the MR? Will you oppose all these measures, including an increase in VAT from 21 to 22%, a measure which apparently circulates in government circles? What can we expect from your party?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u46	The Minister of Finance, in preparation for his tax reform, first had a first reflex, that of asking the Conseil Supérieur des Finances what the avenues were. When you ask the Conseil Supérieur des Finances what the leads are, they obviously do an inventory of the leads. It is true that, on the one hand, it is a museum of horrors, but it must be the subject of work; that is why I said that we would work with the Minister of Finance. We have suggestions. I will add a little bit about your comment on increasing the tax burden. There is still one thing that has changed between the government statement and today: it is the situation that has been experienced. Mr Laaouej mentioned this earlier: the 24 billion we had to borrow to help sectors in difficulty is an expenditure that we had not planned. So, when we make investment projections of certain activities on the basis of good economic growth, we see, of course, that they change a little when we know what has happened, with not only a decrease in general tax revenues and business revenues, but also a decrease in contributions to social security. The context of the time when the government statement was made has changed completely from now on. Our assurances and hopes have been famously ruined, both at home and elsewhere. In relation to what is coming, we are indeed going to discuss with the Minister of Finance. When one consults some of the people who work in the public service of Finance, a department that has studied the subject matter, one deals with people who have a vision that is not that of business - one must say so. We will therefore start from the reform projections, then we will discuss them and see what happens. The ideal is of course to lower taxes and not to make a tax shift. We made a tax shift under the previous government, but it produced the desired effects. It created jobs and economic recovery, and the results were seen later. Will we be able to do the same now? I don't know. Economic growth seems to be returning well; unfortunately inflation is going well as well. We must therefore study this and we cannot incantate. The realities must be taken into account. What does the tax reform reserve for us? We'll see about it. We will discuss this together in the Finance Committee. There are not 36 possibilities, but only a few that allow us to drag contributions. We will see how we can maximize revenues without too much burden. I can only tell you one thing. We're going to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u47	Mr Piedboeuf, I assume that the idea of a 22 % VAT tax reform is the kind of thing that must seduce you. What I see is that you are talking about this great tax reform that must come, but the mini-tax reform, the government's mini-tax shift, is included in the budget but not in the program law. So you are already unable to agree on this mini-reform and you are talking about the great reform that will come. This mini tax shift, you still have to talk about it. You said earlier that we were going to reduce the tax burden, but the 225 million special social security contributions that were to disappear are not in the programme law and are therefore not going to apply. What will not apply either is the limitation of professional discount exemptions, and this is problematic. You're still talking about spending review - the Liberals control spending - but that's a hanging review of which you don't see the color. This is expected to decrease by EUR 75 million, and in fact it is expected to increase by EUR 60 million. These occupational discount exemptions are ultimately a legal theft from the employer of the workers' tax, since he is supposed to levy the tax on his workers to pay it to the tax and he keeps a part for him. This part reaches 3.7 billion euros! Do you not think that this huge €3.7 billion should either be distributed to workers, since it is their tax, in order to reduce the costs, or be paid to the community to finance, for example, the medical expenses mentioned earlier, health care or other expenses? Indeed, you also say that we lack money. These 3.7 billion euros, do you not think they would be better off than in the employers' pocket? Should we continue to make these repeated tax offerings to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u48	About the mini tax shift and the 225 million, it was announced that it would be for April and discussions are underway. This was discussed again this morning in relation to certain revenues and their adjustment. As far as the theft of workers is concerned, it is still extraordinary! The workers, they are taken a professional discount. When they receive their tax return, the discount they paid is mentioned to the nearest one hundred. The money they paid is included in their tax returns and is taken into account in calculating the balance payable. The system actually makes it possible to distract a part, but not the amount that the workers paid, in order to encourage sectors and in particular research. Research discount exemptions produce results. You don't share our vision. It is true that it is three billion that are devoted to encouraging economic activity, including research. Our ambition is to continue to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u49	Mr Piedboeuf, I agree with you that the corona crisis and the floods have a huge impact on the budget. No discussion about this, but that is a one-off impact and not a structural one. There was a structural problem with the finances in Wallonia and in this country long before the corona crisis. Let's be clear, I'm talking about that structural problem. That one-off impact can be addressed, but corona is used by this government and certainly by the PS. You are using some sort of PS rhetoric, that is, there is corona and so we should not put the finances in order and not start the reforms we have proposed in the government agreement. At the moment, we find that this government is not reforming and that it is not putting the finances in order. I was talking about fiscal reform. You say that it is being looked at in a committee that will make a number of proposals. You're not going to tell me that a minister is putting together a committee and doesn't know what these specialists are going to propose? Of course, that minister has a hand in that, including what comes out of it. He has the power of decision there, so that is entirely the responsibility of the Minister. Hence my question as to where this government should end. Is that a tax increase, which we are now working on, a tax shift or a tax reduction? Where should this tax reform end? Will it be a tax shift, as Minister Van Peteghem says, or a tax cut, as Mr Bouchez says?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u50	The Supreme Council of Finance is a fully respectable organization. And we can ask such an organization what they know about. All tax advisors can be asked what avenues they are considering in relation to the tax burden. We can ask everyone for advice. Then you have to make the synthesis and choose. As far as the non-structural side of the covid is concerned, I hope that it will not be structural and that it is only cyclical. But I started my speech by saying that, according to the experts, we were going to have to live with it. On the other hand, it is well known that some countries, especially Asians, have been wearing the mask for decades. It is therefore not certain that this is not structural and we do not know how things will evolve. Let's hope it won't be. Still, even if it is short-term now, we have picked up the problem and we have to take care of it. As far as the Walloon Region is concerned, I know it well. I know his flaws. I also know his potential and his qualities. One area that I have already mentioned here and in the European Parliament when we have seen each other, for example, the development of space. We have a terrible potential in Wallonia with ESA's partnerships, especially in cybersecurity. This is a matter to which the recovery plan must devote resources. When we see what cybersecurity will represent in the evolution of the world, cybersecurity specialists expect a million jobs in the coming years. When one sees the potential, it is certain that the Walloon Region, for example, must devote funds to this kind of development. That, at present, the recovery plan does not satisfy everyone, especially the FEB, etc., I understand it and I share their point of view. Funds are allocated. It's like when the coal mines closed. When the coal mines closed, the Walloons continued to pay so that the coal mines did not die immediately and the Flemish invested in things that are now models. It was the vision of the time. This should not be repeated this time. I therefore also believe that the Walloon recovery plan, even if it exists and has qualities, must be more ambitious. Our will is to make Wallonia work better. We're not beggars. We also have a lot of assets. The proof is that Wallonia is filled with Flemish. I can tell you they're buying all over the place. They're investing heavily. It's because Wallonia has a lot of quality. Otherwise, they would stay in Flanders or go to the Netherlands. No, they're coming to our house! That means Wallonia has a lot of assets, too. Besides, they're welcome. You're right. Wallonia must allocate the resources obtained under the recovery plan to projects which are development projects. We must create wealth. We know that we are lagging behind you, but it is no big deal: our intentions are good and we will be able to carry out what is needed. As far as tax reform is concerned, I replied. We'll work on it. If economic growth is there and the increase in jobs contributes to the financing of social security, everyone's desire is to cut taxes. Point. If we fail to do so, we will then undertake a tax shift, as we did the last time – which has produced effects that we are satisfied with. I know not everyone is happy with it, but we are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u51	Mr Piedboeuf, you have just stated that you understand the position of the VBO. However, the VBO has said more in recent times. I asked you a similar question about, for example, our security of supply and the energy future in this country some time ago during the discussion of the State of the Union. How are you doing today? What should the government do with the nuclear power plants? We have heard a number of clear statements from your President. Mrs Marghem has also expressed herself quite clearly on this issue on a number of occasions. Mrs Wilmès has now expressed herself even more clearly and said that something needs to be done in this area, because plan A is not enough for the MR. Only the question is how you look at that today. After all, I notice that you are very quiet about the whole energy story. All you have said is that we had just talked about energy prices and that you would not repeat them. What is important is the choice made for our security of supply. The cost of our energy to our SMEs and our families is, of course, linked to the choice for or against the nuclear power plants. So my very simple question is the following. What is your opinion on nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u52	The government declaration sets out three objectives: security of supply, price maintenance and no CO2 production. There's a plan A and a plan B. Plan A has been studied and, for the time being, Plan B has not been studied. We believe that, as neighbouring countries do, we need a vision for energy mix in 2050. Managing 2025 is short-term management. Even a commune, it is managed in the longer term. We need to deal with the short term, but we need to look further. When we see the demand for electricity and the need to produce it, we know that problems must be solved by 2050. We do not want to depend on Russia in relation to the price of gas. We will probably have to buy the energy we will miss and if we buy it in France, the Netherlands or England, it will be partly nuclear energy. We don't play with companies. I know Africa and sometimes there are power outages. We don't want to know that at home. We need some certainty about procurement. The question at the heart of the discussion is whether we have certainty and legal certainty. We know that there is a problem with legal certainty for gas power plants. Is there any certainty that we can compensate for the closure or not? That's the question of the moment. There is a government agreement that is clear and precise. There is a decision to leave nuclear power which does not date from this legislature or the previous one but from far beyond. We were together in the previous government and confirmed that decision. We must take responsibility for the decisions we have taken. At the time, Mrs Marghem considered renovating everything that was gas to have plants that were a little less polluting than the old ones. It was a transitional position and it was studied. And then we studied CRM, etc. But for the moment, we're all looking for certainty. When we get them, we'll follow the path and if we don't have them, we'll have to talk. That's my vision. On the other hand, we must have the definition of an energy mix by 2050. We can't tinker. You can't take risks in relation to the business world. Not being a magician, I can't answer any questions you want to ask me. I'm telling you what our vision is. It is not a vision against one or the other, it is the vision of a reality of a society that must live and function. A company does not operate in a random current. I live in Africa and that's not possible. When you want to send messages when there's no electricity, you're upset. I don't want to live like in Africa here!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u53	Mr Piedboeuf, it is clear that there must be security of supply. There must also be certainty that our energy mix will not become a dirty energy mix, as one of the only countries in Europe, and there must be certainty that the energy will remain affordable for our families and businesses. However, I have a little bit of the impression that your group may be the last to really implement the coalition agreement in that area. There is a very large part of the problem. The government wanted to make sure that the light would stay on. There is one and the other written down in the coalition agreement in order to meet that. If there was a problem, the plan B would be implemented. We note with you that there is a problem, but your partners no longer want to implement Plan B. That's where the government's problem lies for a big part. There is also an urgent need to take decisions, because every week we wait for them means more uncertainty for the companies you have just mentioned and more uncertainty for families as to the price of energy. Clear choices must therefore be made. As you know, we are always willing to do so together with you, but I do not know if as many partners in the government want the same thing as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u54	I have the feeling that the six government partners that are with us are not funny. I think they're doing their job well, and they're thinking too. We are not the holders of the truth, but we give our priorities and our needs. I think no one, the Prime Minister in the first place, is ever going to take the risk of shutting down business food. It's not a simple matter. For example, offshore wind, which Flanders and Mr Vermeersch would like to appropriate, is a model of the world-renowned type. We see that there are possibilities for hydrogen, but I am not a specialist and I do not know what can be developed. I know that there are plans in Flanders too, between Rotterdam and the port of Antwerp. It feels like there's potential. Wind energy is intermittent like photovoltaic panels. An energy mix is the addition of all this. At some point, when you add up and push on "equal", you have to be sure to have the equivalent. These are the ongoing discussions. I'm not able to say for the moment whether we have any certainty. We're discussing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u55	Mr Piedboeuf, I am sorry to return to the subject, but this is the dynamic of this Parliament. I didn't get it right earlier. I told you that more and more caregivers are tired of having to work that long. And you, as the MR's representative, say, "I know a lot of nurses who are happy to work longer." Are you serious? This is crazy! You really live in another world. It is just the opposite that is felt on the ground. I'm telling you, 67 is untenable. No measures are taken for difficult jobs. This becomes untenable for this staff. The PTB makes you a proposal at 60 with 35 years of career. We have a white blouses amendment; the last time the MR had to bend and change his mind by finally voting on the famous "white blouses" fund he found populist. He was less populist ten minutes later when you felt the balance of power. I sincerely ask you this question: tomorrow evening during the vote on the budget, will you once again change your mind and support this new fund of the PTB to ask for the possible pension at 60 years after 35 years of career, the raising of wages and the payment of all these overtime? The bullet's in the MR camp. What is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u56	Obviously, you like caricatures. To say that we changed our mind about the White Blouse Fund at the last moment is to forget that for months, weeks, we talked together. We were around the table. Marc Goblet led the work and Caroline Taquin participated. I took part in it at the beginning. As part of the White Blouses Fund, we have also advocated an orientation for independent nurses. But to say we changed our mind at the last moment is not true. On the first jet, we wondered what was still that. You get out of here all the time! At first, it didn't look like anything. Then we shaped it for weeks together and we got to something that was voted unanimously. That's good! It's a real parliamentary job. So it must not be said that all of a sudden we changed our minds, that's not true! There's one thing I'd like to say about nurses. That's your point of view on nurses; that's your point of view on all those who work! When you talk about work, you have a real problem with work! You think that work is bad for health and that people suffer from work. I think people are happy to work. It's not easy every day but I meet many people who are happy to work! We have a "work" value. We encourage work. You say the work is bad. And we think the opposite! And I repeat, there are nurses who are happy to work. But they would prefer to work under better management conditions, hence the desire to change management standards. We are convinced that this must be done because it has not changed since the 1970s. We agree on this, but we must work on it. Maggie De Block had already started but we slowed her down a lot. You have to say it anyway. She also suffered from everything that was done to her at the time. Now, having taken a distance, we realize that the directions taken were the right ones, especially on hospital networks. We can see how science is going. We believe that the work is beneficial. We believe that work must be defended, that people must be given work and that the more people work, the more funding for social security will increase. I was almost done, but I was counted for time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u57	There are still questions, Mr. Piedboeuf. Not only would Mr. Hedebouw like to react, but I also saw Mr. Van Lommel and Mr Anseew
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u58	Mr Piedboeuf, the first question concerns career ends. I don't know what world you live in! There are a multitude of people who love their profession; who love their work but do not see how it would be possible to work until the age of 67. Securex conducted an investigation last week. Nine out of ten workers do not see themselves working until they are 67 years old. And here's the MR who comes to tell us, "I know a lot of people who love to work, no problem until 67." But you live in what world! They're not small drawings, it's because we love work! I'll end up with that, Mr. Piedboeuf. We love the workers. We like work. We even made it the name of our party: the Labour Party! This is something other than the Reform Movement, which we wonder what it wants to reform!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u59	It wasn't a question; I'm not answering. We can therefore move on to the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u60	Mr Piedboeuf, I found the reply you just gave on security of supply interesting, because you referred to the coalition agreement and you also said that we should support the choices of the past. In the previous legislature, Minister Marghem had the file dragged further. Engie Electrabel sent many letters to the government at the beginning of this legislature, but also in the previous legislature. At the time, your own minister ignored all those signals from the operator. This also applies to the members of the N-VA. I can see that your party chairman, Mr Bouchez, is talking toughly in the media, but you are trying to be more nuanced here in Parliament, given that it is messing with the government on all sides about security of supply. You also said earlier that you do not want to be dependent on Russia. I find that statement particularly interesting. Minister Tinne Van der Straeten accused me of misinterpreting the geopolitical situation here last week in the Half-Round, as she does not think there is any problem with gas imports from Russia. So now you're proclaiming something else. You say that companies and families must have legal certainty. I would add that security must also be provided in terms of external dependence. I think it is essential to keep energy production and security of supply as much as possible in my own hands. Mrs Wilmès, your Deputy Prime Minister, said that she was concerned in the press just a few hours ago and said that the time was right to draw Plan B out of the coalition agreement. How do you feel about the statements made by Mrs Wilmès, not only your Deputy Prime Minister, but also an important representative of this government? Minister Tinne Van der Straeten proclaims that everything is fine and that security of supply has been saved, while Minister Wilmès actually says the opposite. For me it's as ready as a whistle, you liberals have left the whole energy file to the greens. I can only say that the population, both families and businesses, is not at all in favour of energy policy that you are now implementing under Tinne Van der Straeten. I'm afraid you've waited too long. Plan B was registered in the coalition agreement last year. You believed that you had all the time in the world and advanced the decision for a year, but in the meantime Engie Electrabel had said quite quickly that you were no longer interested in that plan B. Why did they say that? They have done a complete write-down of their nuclear power plants in the books as you came to spawn them with your energy transition. They saw these subsidies and went the other way. Surely one cannot say to the operator at one point that one is no longer interested in his nuclear power stations and that one is going to go on an energy transition and then come up with something completely different? I'm afraid you've rolled a snowball forward. That snowball's gotten bigger and now it's so big that you can't get it pushed anymore. So you're just stuck, you don't remember right now. I am particularly concerned about the negotiations that are now under way. You're not just gonna get out. If you liberals fail in those talks, I fear for the affordability of our energy in the years to come, when the last nuclear power plant closes its doors in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u61	Without repeating myself, I'll give you a few things. Engie is pursuing her business plan. Engie has changed direction. She saw that there were subsidies to go somewhere and she continues to follow that plan because her calculation of profitability satisfied her. It's not just Engie; EDF was also interested in the subject a few years ago. Given the political uncertainties in our country, these companies have not committed themselves. Engie plans a business plan. We'll see what's going on with the company. If it's not Engie, there'll be more. It is also a matter of legislation to be developed. As far as Tinne Van der Straeten is concerned, she did not say that it was no big deal and that there was no problem. She said it was 4%. So we know that there is a risk in 4% because Russia - a beautiful country that I love very much - does not always have good intentions. We have just seen it with a neighbouring country where prices have suddenly multiplied tenfold. It is indeed a geopolitical subject. When we say that we have to rely on certainties, it means that we cannot put our heads on a log in relation to the cost of energy either. We do want to work on this. I do not know whether or not Plan B will be considered, but it is one of the options contained in the Government Agreement. We had to think about it before the end of the year. This will take place a little later, it's no big deal. I have already spoken about what I thought of everything else and about our vision. As to whether we are "under the cut of the greens", I answer no! The Minister of Energy has her vision. You talked about Marie-Christine Marghem and you said she dragged. I saw her working every day. These are not files that we settle like this because we think about them in the morning when we get up. She worked all the time. She has surrounded herself with a series of opinions and has advanced on files, such as the offshore wind farm you are now bragging about. There's been a series of evolutions. She did her job. Now, she's worked mostly on the development of CRM. We will see what this gives, but I do not agree with your criticism of Minister Marie-Christine Marghem. Although the previous government maintained what was decided about 17 years ago, if I recall correctly, we have to manage the decisions we made. We don't always make the right decisions. When we take them, we think they're good. But we're going to see how we can get this case worked out. We're working on it, and I don't think the Prime Minister falls asleep at night thinking everything's okay. He's thinking too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u62	Mr Piedboeuf, you say that we do not only have ENGIE. What worries me, however, and what is also a confirmation of what I have said here many times, is that you say: we will see. This has been said for more than 17 years now. A core exit law will be adopted in 2003, which is definitely a policy. And we'll see. Now we are in 2021, a few years before the final closure of the nuclear power stations, and again you come to say: we will see. Plan B is one of the options. Indeed, Mrs Marghem has in the past cut a number of buttons like the offshore wind energy project and so on, but it is the same MR that dragged the core dossier. The same MR now explains everywhere in the media that there should be a lifetime extension, more even, that the future energy mix should also include nuclear energy. That's what your party chairman says. That's what your Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès says. That is the same MR, but the MR has not promoted or implemented that policy in the past. That is a pity, because that is one of the reasons why we are in this situation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u63	Could it have been expected 17 years ago that Belgian offshore wind would become a global model? He happens to be. Compared to nuclear, we see world trends, not only in the United States, Canada, England, France, the Netherlands, China, Russia; we see trends: there is old nuclear formula and new nuclear formula. Don't you ever say, "I won't drink your water!" This expression is French. Let us recognize that man is, in humanity, a genius. Throughout its evolution, it finds solutions to all problems gradually. So who can say by 2050 what will be the evolutions in the new nuclear power, for example? Nuclear power has this advantage of not producing CO2 and achieving lower costs. When I talk about the energy mix in 2050, it's this kind of analysis that we have to do. I'm not able to do them, but others are. Marie-Christine Marghem often intervenes on the subject and she also has her vision. When there were mistakes made, she acknowledged it. But we're all humans. Some still have the solution to everything and ideas to everything. Not us! We have the modesty of our condition and we are moving forward. When I say we'll see, it doesn't mean we'll cross arms and "we'll see." This means what the result of analysis and discussion is. That's it! In the area of justice, the refinancing provided for in the 2022 budget is therefore: EUR 310 million. Our Government is delivering on its promises to refinance this pillar of democracy, enabling our Minister of Justice to continue his ambitious action to make justice more firm, humane and faster. There are a few specific points foreseen with this refinancing which my group would like to welcome: - The recruitment of staff in courts and courts and the Justice FPS to participate in the elimination of the backlog, together with other factors such as the ongoing digitization. - The opening of detention centres that will help to control the increase in the prison population that could result from the execution of sentences of less than three years, which were applied in June 2022. These small-scale structures will allow for individualized offender care and better reintegration. In the area of prisons, it should also be noted that additional budgets are planned for the modernization of prisons, in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments. It will be necessary to improve the functioning of the procurement of uniforms requested by staff and also to review their remuneration. As already said, everyone wants to be paid better: the police, the nurses, the prison staff and we have to work there. Second, an increase of $69 million is planned for second-line legal aid. This increase guarantees the value of the pro deo lawyer point while the number of cases increases as the thresholds for access to this legal aid decrease. It is an important corollary of access to justice for the most vulnerable litigants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u64	Mr Piedboeuf, you mentioned something very interesting about work earlier, a subject that you mentioned very briefly with a colleague across the hemisphere. With a lot of conviction, you said that working is not necessarily a punishment or something negative. Working must by definition be a positive story, an important part of our lives. For the sake of clarity and without any irony, I fully agree with that. I, too, am convinced that working must be an important part of our lives, in a positive way. Work doesn't just serve to get a wage at the end of the month. It also offers us social contact and the opportunity to develop ourselves and give meaning to an important part of our lives. On the left, it is very often not possible to distinguish between work and working conditions. They like to mix that up and then throw everything into a pile, which makes a debate about, for example, end-of-life careers, and about career and activation in general extremely difficult, if not impossible. So I fully agree with you when you say that working is and must be a positive story. However, as Mr Wollants said just now, your MR is apparently the last party in this government to implement the coalition agreement on that point, I have the impression that you are a bit the canary in the coal mine. You know, canaries in the coal mines are more susceptible to harmful substances than humans. So they give the first alarm if something's not okay. Now, that canary is also in danger, of course. There are three possibilities: either nothing changes and the canary dies; or something changes and there will be activating measures in labour market policy, and then the canary will be saved. However, when I look at the past two years of this purple-green government, I see only measures on labour market policy that stimulate inactivity. Even when I look at the 2022 budget, I do not see a robust labour market reform or a start to it. So we must not hope that, suddenly, active labour market policy measures will be introduced to save the canary. Then we have the third option that remains, namely that the canary manages to escape from the cage. Mr Piedboeuf, what will be the fate of the canary when it comes to labour market policy within the current government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u65	Are you responding, Mr. Piedboeuf? Mr Boukili still wishes to speak on a different subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u66	Madam President, I have only one answer to make. I am not a canary; I am a free man.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u67	Mr Piedboeuf, I am interrupting you because you have spoken of justice, and you welcome the budget allocated to the Minister of Justice. I recall that this budget remains largely inadequate in relation to the challenges on the ground, and in relation to all the policies of successive governments that have sabbed into justice. I refer, for example, to the government's March 2020 conviction to respect the judicial framework. Despite the budget that is being put on the table and the recruitments announced by the Minister, who is struggling to find staff, especially because of the working conditions within the justice system, this framework will not be met. The March 2020 conviction only calls on Belgium to respect the law. Even that, we can't do it! I do not understand how we can rejoice at a budget that does not even achieve the bare minimum. That is what we have to do with the staff. There are many other subjects, but having only two minutes, it is impossible for me to address them all. However, I would like to raise the issue of prisons. You welcomed the establishment of detention centres. For now, there's only two. But others should come in response to the overcrowding that will result from the application of the short sentences. I recall that the Minister of Justice has had to reconsider this proposal, although we have warned him about inapplicability on the ground. Even with the detention centres that are planned, its proposal will not apply. In fact, detention centres are calculated on the basis of the number of detainees who would arrive following the application of the short sentences. Today, however, there is already an unsustainable overpopulation. In this regard, there is still no concrete response. There's this big prison project in Haren, but it won't be enough. We must also see what will happen to the staff; we find it difficult to have them, because the conditions are deplorable. So it's a big construction site. I think it is not appropriate to welcome the EUR 300 million. It doesn't even put a bandage on the hemorrhage. Already when you put a bandage on a hemorrhage, you don't solve the problem, but there, you can't even put a bandage on that budget, because it leaks from all sides. My question is this. When will you, as a member of the government, come back to all the policies that were issued by the previous governments, when you were also a member of the government? I am referring more specifically to the previous government. When are you going to bring an energetic policy to the level of justice, for staff, for working conditions, to reduce prison overcrowding and for Belgium not to be considered a country that does not respect human rights? That is how we are condemned by the European Union: as a country that does not respect human rights in its prison policy and in its justice policy. It's a shame for our country. What energetic solutions do you bring, instead of those little crumbs that don't fix anything at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u68	In this area, as in others, this is obviously never enough, but we take into account the situation of our country, its indebtedness, the need to achieve a gradual return to budgetary rigour. We're trying to do as much as we can. I'm gonna end with a sentence from someone who's got to inspire you. It's Lao Tseu. "The longest path starts with the first step." These are the first steps. We will support the government's budget and the government in its ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u69	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of a budget is always taking place against a certain background. There is the social context in which we find ourselves. This last year, of course, was the coronapandemic with the third wave, the fourth wave and perhaps the omicron wave or fifth wave over the next few weeks. This crisis has a major social and economic impact on health, including mental health, of adults and children in our country. In addition, last year there was also the shortage of water in Wallonia and Limburg. Both the flood and the corona pandemic have shown that solidarity is an important fact, which is also present in our country. Last year, the government also launched a number of reforms. Think of the sustainability of our mobility with the greening of commercial vehicles. That is the social context. In addition, a budget is made by a government composed of members of the Vivaldi government parties in this case. Compromises are being made and parties transcend themselves to come out with a whole, just as they did last year when they finally cut the knot to form a government during the corona crisis, the need of which is also confirmed by the IMF in its latest country report. Indeed, it was not an option to allow the formation of government to drag on endlessly. In addition to the social context, the government parties have also based themselves on the figures for the budget. As stated by the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Minister for Finance, the report of the September Monitoring Committee was the starting point. That report also clearly points to the impact of the corona pandemic. How could it be any different? Because of the health crisis, not only Belgium but the whole world is in a very specific situation, so much so that the general escape clause was activated. Meanwhile, in recent months, we were allowed to record an economic boom, while at the same time facing some obstacles. For the fourth and perhaps also the fifth wave, which will have a major economic impact, we obviously have a weapon, in particular the massive booster vaccination that is progressing at full speed in our country and in Flanders. As mayor, I can only confirm that. This is important for the protection of our population and for tackling the corona health crisis and its economic impact. Another obstacle is, of course, the ever-increasing inflation of recent weeks and months. We heard from the Court of Auditors that the phenomenon would be temporary. Some experts say it might take a little longer. We have to be alert to this and stay. The purchasing power of our families is important. Wage indexation is an important tool to provide a buffer for ordinary people faced with price increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u70	Colleague, you just mentioned the fourth corona wave in which we are sitting and the possible omicron wave and see the booster vaccines as a weapon against it. But of course, they're not the only answer to an outbreak of corona wave. One of the weapons that we can also use is, of course, testing with the self-tests. They are now well established, but are still very expensive: 5 to 10 euros. For example, if we have to have the whole family tested before the end of the year parties, that can be a serious bite from the family budget. That is why the PVDA has already proposed here, and today we repeat this to give each Belgian three self-tests. We are supported in this by Green and Ecolo, who will apparently defend it in the Conciliation Committee tomorrow. I was just surprised that your colleague, Mrs Nawal Farih, sent a tweet in which she called our proposal very populist. Apparently, she's not for it at all, which is odd, because Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Cyprus, Greece and today even America are announcing that they will hand out 500 million self-tests to their citizens. I would like to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u71	Mrs Merckx, thank you for the question. Firstly, there is a cost involved in the self-tests, which - I have checked it again - has already fallen considerably. If you are careful, you can already get a self-test for 1.90 euros. Secondly, measures have already been taken, including the introduction of the 0% VAT rate, which is an important element. Thirdly, if we want to do something about the cost of self-testing, it must be a targeted measure. A general measure is indeed populist, just like the free story in general. Perhaps we should look at those who need it. For them, there is already a system in place at the moment: they can use self-tests at the price of 1 euro at the pharmacy. So we must put everything in perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u72	Mr Matheï, that is an odd argument, because a PCR test is free for everyone within the criteria. A self-test will cost the government much less than the PCR tests, which will still be refunded at a price of more than 30 euros per test. If we buy the tests through a public tender, the price may be 1 euro per test. So economically, your answer is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u73	Mrs Merckx, my answer was very clear. So I'm gonna go on with my story. I had arrived at the figures, which of course have been impacted by the corona crisis. There is a federal deficit of minus 3,26 %. We are currently measuring strong economic growth, stronger than in Europe, which means that predictions are somewhat slower by 2022. We invested. We have given our companies a great deal of support. It is also a good thing that we have done so. That confirms the National Bank of Belgium. Every euro of support has brought about 3.50 euros of prosperity, as we learn from a study carried out by Minister Crevits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u74	Mr Mathei, I would like to speak for a moment about the rise in prices, the inflation you are talking about. I have the impression that the CD&V has a problem with issues of price and population perception. In particular, there is the problem of rising fuel prices. Energy prices have risen sharply. They even tripled as far as gas is concerned. It is known that the energy standard will not regulate anything, so to speak. On fuel prices, Minister Van Peteghem made a commitment here, in response to a question from Raoul Hedebouw, to apply the negative ratchet. Today, however, the press reports: "Haut fuel prices: the inverted cliquet is still out of date. However, Minister Van Peteghem had promised that he would plead in his favour." I thought the minister had pleaded with the government for the application of the inverted click to block the rise in fuel prices, even though he had promised a saving of one euro, not per litre, but per full. It wasn't anything! But, no matter what, we felt that he had to defend this measure before the government, and we thought he had. But when we read the article, we learn that it was not the government that refused the application of the reverse cliquet, but that the minister did not submit his proposal to the government. What's crazy is how he drives this choice. Indeed, his spokesman stated that he had not proposed the application of the reverse ratchet because he was waiting for fuel prices to reach EUR 1.7. This price is already huge compared to the one in force a year ago, but in addition, the price at the pump today amounts to 1,753 euro. The 1.7 euro is therefore already exceeded. In doing so, in itself, not only is the argument crazy, but in addition, it is false since the price is higher. Why does Minister Van Peteghem not defend the inverted ratchet and even a ratchet that would have a little more effect than one euro per pound? Indeed, many people have to go to work by car because they cannot take public transport. You understand that one euro per full is nothing! But today, this euro is not even granted to them. Explain to us what is happening in the head of Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u75	Mr Matheï, I would like the issues mentioned in a budget debate to be correct. I know this is your line, too. We have just had a discussion with Mr Vanbesien, who may have spoken a little too voluntaristic. I think this has just been the case with you. You literally said that Belgium will grow stronger than the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u76	...quarter now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u77	Then I withdraw my question. I understand you were talking about the year (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u78	I would have said now, and as for next year, slow direction (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u79	Thank you for this clarification. I hope that you will also discuss Belgium's economic growth next year in the rest of your speech, because that is what the 2022 budget is about, and whether you are equally optimistic about that economic and growth situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u80	I have literally said why we are slowing down next year and that we are currently at a higher rate of growth than the rest of Europe on average.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u81	Mr Matheï, the price of a megawattage gas in the Dutch forward market, which, as you may know, is a reference for gas prices, for delivery in February 2022 rose by 16% to 170 euros, an absolute record, higher than in October. I'm sure you've also read the front page of De Tijd. You have put it rather conveniently by saying that some experts predict that it might take longer than previously estimated. Well, not only in the short-term market, prices are rising, including in the long-term market, which means that price increases are to be expected in the coming years. As far as the fiscal reform is concerned, I have so far learned that the phasing out of fossil fuels would be part of this major fiscal reform. The problem of high gas prices indeed has a geopolitical origin: the gas price is determined by Russia. What are you going to do with that? I can't imagine you going to tax the gas even more by means of a carbon tax. What does this mean for the consumer? The majority of people in this country still heat up with natural gas, despite all the incentives. How's things getting along? You will then refer to the European Social Climate Fund. However, there is still very little concrete information on this issue. We also hear ideas about a refund through the collection of allowances. That's all very uncertain. In the meantime, Mr van Peteghem is standing there with his tax reform and tax shift on energy or moving it to another legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u82	Madam President, Mr Van Hees's question obliges me, of course, to ask for the floor. He has distorted the truth a bit, because it was of course the Flemish interest that in the declaration of government already asked Mr Verherstraeten what would be done about the prices at the pump. About a month ago, on 24 November, we asked that question again in Parliament, and then, of course, the PVDA agreed with our question as to what should happen to the cliquet system. Minister Van Peteghem said in Parliament: "I therefore think it is logical that we should work on a system that can relieve the pressure on our families. That system is the reverse cliquet system." Since then, however, we have not heard anything about it, which is a real trick. Hence my question, Mr Matheï, as to the status of this proposal. What can citizens expect from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u83	That's a lot of questions. First of all, I will deal with pump prices and the correlation with inflation, because that was the reason for the demand. They must of course be monitored, and that is exactly what Minister Van Peteghem said in plenary and in committee. If prices are too high, an inverse cliquet system must be negotiable in the government. Mr Ravyts, you asked a lot of questions about energy and its affordability, but also about fiscal reform. I'll start with that last one. A number of principles on a major fiscal reform need to be developed. Greening and sustainability are important principles of many parties and also of ours. We will have to build in this sustainability and greening in one way or another. As far as the affordability of the energy bill for people is concerned, there is still work on the shelf. The system which will be introduced and which must become the basis for an energy standard will allow us to steer by replacing federal taxes with excise duties. We will thus be able to respond to the prices, including those in neighbouring countries, and thus safeguard the purchasing power of men and women in the streets, but also the competitiveness of our companies. We have been given the figures, the basic principles of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u84	Excuse me, but I asked a specific question, Mr. Mathey. I would still like to have a precise answer. Minister Van Peteghem said here that he was going to propose the inverted ratchet to the government to block fuel prices. Today we learn in the press that he did not propose to the government the system of the inverted ratchet. His only explanation is that the price did not exceed 1.70 euro. However, the price has well exceeded this amount; it is above 1.70 euro. Explain to me why he didn't offer it to the government! You did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u85	Mr Van Hees, you asked the same question several times, not only here but also in committee. You have always received an answer, but you are not satisfied with that, I think. I think that was clear. As regards the 2022 budget, the Secretary of State has clearly indicated that 2022 should be a pivotal year between, on the one hand, corona and the large budgets that required the fight against corona and the support of our companies and, on the other hand, the revival and further growth. That was the starting point in October and let's hope that this can also be the focus for next year, with that remark that we have now had to deal with other variants. The budget contains a number of fixed and variable efforts, which we have already discussed. There is also a new policy. This is what we are going to do for investments and measures. Before going into that, I would like to say something about the general budget. We want a credible budget with a long-term vision, i.e. for several years, and with realistic and ambitious objectives. That's what CD&V stands for. That is to say, we are saving on our own operation, trying to eliminate excesses and injustices and carrying out reforms in the medium and long term. This is not easy at all, because the policy framework is not stable. All kinds of things are constantly changing, and the fluctuating economic figures are proof of that. It is important that we switch and not continue on autopilot. Then there is the question of how to say whether or not the budget is credible. You can do that with the litmus test. A first observation is that the macroeconomic assumptions underlying the budgetary plan are plausible for 2021 and 2022. Those are not my words, but those of the European Commission. It clearly states in its report that the budget complies with all the recommendations, while paying particular attention to a number of aspects. For example, re-launch measures and aid measures must be limited in time and debt must not grow further. However, there are no imbalances. The European Commission has a framework for this, namely the MIP Scoreboard. The MIP Scoreboard looks at the situation in each European country on the basis of different parameters. Debt is a focus for Belgium, we all know that. However, the other parameters do not light up. As a result, Belgium, for example, is not under tight supervision, unlike some nine other European countries, including neighbouring countries. That's the first version of the litmus test. The second version comes from the Court of Auditors, respected by all of us. The Court of Auditors gives a very moderate and cautious analysis of the budget, according to De Tijd. It is certainly not a destructive report, quite the contrary. There are also some comments in it. It is cited that there are both some overestimates and some underestimates. In particular, the positive elements of the medium-term reforms, such as climate transition and digitalisation, are highlighted. These are all things that we say should be implemented for future generations. The huge recovery plan NextGenerationEU coming towards us is a game changer, according to the National Bank of Belgium. It gives a super impulse to our country and our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u86	Madam President, I would like to respond to a number of factual inaccuracies. Mr Matheï says that the European Commission is almost praised for this country's budget. It's a little more nuanced, Mr Matheï. The European Commission expects us to have the lowest economic growth in Europe. I think Mr Loones has already said that. For the whole of Europe, an average growth rate of 4.3 % is expected, but for Belgium it is only 2.6 %. Worse still, Belgium is the only one of the Club Med countries with a towering state debt that will grow even further next year. In Greece, France and Italy it is falling. Only in Latvia, Estonia and Malta are debt increases, as in Belgium. So it's a lot more nuanced than you say. On 2 June 2021, the European Commission concluded in its report on our budget that the deficit criterion and the debt criterion were not met. That is a clear indication from the European Commission. This is also mentioned in the report. Of course, one can read anything with pink or orange glasses, but I think the situation in this country is serious. The only way to solve this problem is to acknowledge the seriousness of the situation. If you say in Parliament that Europe is giving you pats on the back, I find that embarrassing when you know the real figures. Mr Matheï, you are the budget specialist of CD&V and you know the figures. So you know that the situation is a little more nuanced, to say the least.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u87	Mr Vermeersch, you speak of'screwing out of context', but you did the same with my speech. After all, I did not say that the European Commission was praised. I have pointed out what is in it and what is important. Recommendations are followed. There are points of interest, such as the guilt, but there are no factual inaccuracies. This is what the OECD has just issued and there is something quite different from what you are trying to tell us about 'actual inaccuracies'. We have the lowest growth according to the report. You may not have listened very carefully, but I also made a statement earlier. You will fly on briefly, even almost off the bend when you make that caricature of my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u88	Mr Matheï, you have just said yourself that European budgetary rules have been put on hold. That is why this report does not go into the situation in greater depth. As a budget specialist for the CD&V, you will no doubt know that our country escaped the European criminal bench in heels before the corona crisis. You are also well aware that if these budgetary rules are applied again in 2023, we will undoubtedly end up with the current figure and the budgetary tables before us. You say that the European Commission does not make any comments. Of course not, because there is no criminal procedure in the European Union at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u89	Mr Vermeersch, I do not deny that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u90	Should that procedure exist today and be applied to this budget, Belgium would already be on that European criminal bench today, because we do not comply in any way with European rules. That is the only reality and you must tell it in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u91	Mr Vermeersch, first of all, there is the escape clause. And it's there for a reason. That's obvious. If the rules go back, then we have to accept them. We're talking about this and what's out there. I'm just showing the facts, just like the NIP scoreboard does. You can say that it is not true, but it is a thorough macroeconomic analysis of each Member State and I am just making that observation. You might have liked us to come under enhanced supervision, but the facts are different. I'll continue with the European hatch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u92	My point was that you're covering things up here. You know that the situation in this country is dramatic. You must dare to name that if you want to deal with that problem. We can pat each other on the back here about the fact that the country's finances are in order and are going well according to Europe, but that is absolutely not the truth. You hide the facts, you have to tell the truth here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u93	You didn't listen very carefully. I've pointed out the issues, but let's close this up. I'll continue with the European hatch. I was talking about the European Recovery Fund, NextGenerationEU, and the fact that this demonstrates the need for the European Union. If we think that we could handle the enormous societal challenges alone, that is not the case. I think that's very clear. The future of our young people and of all of us is a future in a strong Europe. After the background, credibility and the litmus test of our budget, we come up with a lot of measures in various areas. I'll get some out. The important challenge is more people at work. I won't kick in an open door. That has already been discussed here. This can be encouraged in several areas, and I would like to mention the tax and parafiscal measures which may give rise to this. There will then be an incentive to put out or begin to put out the special social security contribution, combined with the increase in childcare. I heard Mr Francken very clearly earlier...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u94	No doubt the middle class will be discussed here. Contrary to previous speakers, can you tell us what the fiscal measures in this tax shift are, because that is what it is really about for a normal family, he is a nurse, she is a teacher? Order size is good, it doesn't have to go up to the euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u95	In this budget there is the impetus to actually do something for those people, that is clear. There is the beginning of the abolition of this special social security contribution, but there is also the measure relating to childcare. Mr Francken was slim about the one euro. Count it out for the family you just mentioned, with two children in child care. This increase of one euro means that they go from 11.20 to 14 euros. If these children go to the shelter and the tax relief is applied, it is more than EUR 500 extra net for those families. You can narrow it down, but saving more than EUR 500 a year is an important measure in itself. It's only about child care. Furthermore, the indexing mechanism is important for the middle class. The energy standard is also being addressed so that energy prices can be further improved. There's the fact that more people get to work, because that's good for everyone. In the longer term, and this impetus is being given here with a number of smaller measures this year, there is, of course, the major fiscal reform. As far as we are concerned, but I think for many here, lowering labour burdens must be the most important item. Then take what happens in Flanders, by the Flemish government, and they have a package that effectively stimulates people to get to work. But we will have to go even further in that. This has also been made clear by the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u96	So you're saying you need to move on. That will then be the subject of the debate on the budget for resources and expenditure, 2023, but let us look at the incentive for today's middle class. It remains a well-kept secret what that means in concrete terms. After all, you say that it is already something and that we need to go further, but what exactly is it? What can I tell the couple French and Louise - let's call them that? What's in it for them? What I know is they'll pay more when they get on the plane. I also hope that neither smokes, not only for their health, but also for their financial health. So what's going to happen for them in the tax shift, because that's what's in it, what's in it today? I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u97	It is enough to read the budgets and the legislation is in preparation. That comes out in the next few months, that's what's been said. From April onwards, the tax shift will enter into force, so the concrete measures need to be put in place. However, this amounts to EUR 300 million on an annual basis. And these are important steps towards the activation of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u98	From a CD&Ver it is less surprising than from colleagues from other parties of course that they are playing around with on the one hand and on the other hand. But you're making a big deal out of it, aren't you? We've been sitting on hot coal all day now to hear from the majority that the big tax shift, which we were talking about this morning, is actually made up of and you're godbearing to Flemish measures while we're in the Flemish government together. You have also referred to the need to make efforts to get more people to work, and I fully agree with that. However, I would like to know what attitude CD&V will adopt in future in the federal government, especially when Minister of Work Dermagne puts sticks in the wheels of the Flemish government over and over again. Only a few days ago he spoke very clearly against a measure taken by the Flemish Government, namely the community service. He's certainly not gonna help with that. Of course, this measure is not a miracle solution. He is a bitter necessity, because genuinely thorough labour market reforms at the Vivaldi level are lacking. I come to my question to you. CD&V is very clear in the Flemish government and also takes very brave decisions. As far as we are concerned, the position on the community service has evolved in a good way with the Flemish CD&V. I have a lot of respect for that. But that is in stark contrast to the attitude they adopt in the federal government in that regard. Labour market policy is extremely important. The only thing you can boast about is a tax shift that was symbolically mentioned in Villa Politica a few weeks ago by Mr Lachaert, not least in the purple-green story, even though he was happy about it. Anyway, with pure symbolism, we won't get there, of course. What attitude will CD&V adopt when it comes to thorough labour market reform, reforms that work in this country make a lot more attractive than not working. That's what it's really about: a tax shift is never an end in itself, which is a means to achieve an end, namely to create more prosperity for more people in this country. Well, will you finally be on the line of the Flemish CD&V, or will you, as in the past two years, become federally involved with that purple-green story, which is now starting to turn very red?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u99	Thank you for your intervention. What happens in Flanders happens in Flanders. That is where measures are being taken, indeed. As far as federal policy is concerned, I think it is important to open up asymmetric measures so that labour market policy can be tailored to the needs of each region. That too must be made possible in the future. Then we can combine the two. Then I come to the energy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u100	Mr Matheï, asymmetric labour market policy is indeed in the coalition agreement, but until today that remains dead letter. The N-VA is the only party that has been urging the Minister of Work to do so out of loyalty to the Flemish Government and to the Flemish people over the past two years. You're making sure it's okay or it's gonna be okay. Then tell me what that asymmetric labour market policy consists of for 2022. I haven't heard that from anyone in the last two years, not even from the Minister of Work. Tell me where we find the budgetary impact of this in the budget. So, very concretely, what makes up that asymmetric labour market policy in 2022, whose Flemish would get better? I'm very curious. I do not see it, you seem to see it, so explain it to me and tell us immediately where we will find its budgetary impact in the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u101	Madam President, I do not think it is a good idea to do anything about it, but I think it is an exaggeration. Firstly, Mr De Roover, you have minimized and downplayed a lot of fiscal measures, which strengthen citizens' purchasing power. Secondly, you are acting as if no activating measures are being taken in this country. If you put the Flemish and the federal coalition agreement next to each other, you will find that the ambition is the same. Isn't that right? Are we not doing anything about the long-term incapacity for work? For the first time! Even the previous government didn't. However, this government, which you call the left, does. It is trying to get everyone to work, people with disabilities, the sick and the long-term unemployed. We do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u102	Secondly, you heard the Prime Minister at the State of the Union, or maybe you didn't hear because you went outside. At that time, you could have heard that we are in favour of asymmetric measures. The Flemish Government has asked questions and we have answered them positively. We're going to put that into practice now, too, to get extra people to work. That's a difference. In fact, we are going further than during the previous legislature, with you on board.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u103	Mr Verherstraeten, the excitement you are showing here is not pleasant for Mr Matheï, because you give the impression that he cannot answer. You have, in some respects, rearranged the rules of the debate, because you had not asked him a question. You are actually the first to break the agreement so explicitly this afternoon, although this might help the debate. Your excitement does indicate that a very delicate point has been touched. When I speak of a huge secret, which has not been revealed by anyone, the tax shift, it is 6.25 euros a month less through the so-called solidarity contribution. It will be abolished at around 10%, as some 150 million out of 1.2 billion will be lost. For the couple I have just mentioned, that amounts to an amount of a small euro, an amount that you did not wish to pronounce. When we hear that it is EUR 6.25 a month, I understand that you did not mention that specific amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u104	(...) Mr De Roover, Mr Matheï can answer perfectly and had actually already replied. For a family with two children, the increase in child benefit is EUR 580 per year. The indexation of the farm tax scales will already yield 128 euros on an annual basis this year. In itself these are not huge amounts, but in a sum many little ones make one big one. Above all, you ignore the billions that we have invested in the companies because of the corona crisis, with which we have saved jobs. That's activation, too. Workers and self-employed persons were able to obtain temporary unemployment benefits, which is also a strengthening of purchasing power. As a result, the economy has remained so strong, as Mr Matheï explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u105	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, there is no need to get so excited. It is not because you suddenly start screaming loudly that your words are suddenly more truthful. I simply put a very specific question to Mr Matheï. Mr Verherstraeten, I am glad that you have confirmed that Mr Matheï can answer perfectly. So, Mr Matheï, I ask you the question. Can you explain to me where this major labour market reform, or at least the start, can be found in the 2022 budget? I don't see them, but I looked very hard. Indeed, I am concerned for the very simple reason that in the last two years, the present purple-green government, in which you are quietly carried away with the bumping stream, has done nothing. Labour market reform is nothing more than chattering, because there is actually no reform. We see a sharp increase in living wages and a threefold increase in unemployment benefits. This is in stark contrast to the absence of one truly activating measure. Mr Verherstraeten has shouted about the long-term sick. That's about half a million people who should be activated somehow. The only thing the current federal government is doing is reminding that it can face that challenge by engaging well-known sixty coaches. I wish the coaches every success. However, we have more than two million inactive people working in this country. Mr Verherstraeten has indicated that you can answer me perfectly. So tell me what measures we can find in the 2022 budget that support the labour market reform that we support together in the Flemish government, namely getting more people to work. Together in the Flemish government, we are dragging hard into the cart of training, lifelong learning, closing the existing gap and mismatch in the labour market and the tight labour market. Give me where we find it here in the policy and federal budget. You say that it is included in the budget. Mr Verherstraeten says that you can answer perfectly. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u106	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, I have just referred to the fact that a so-called asymmetric policy must be possible. What could that mean? The regions could be given more scope to contact the temporary unemployed in order to motivate them to take up training. There could be consultations with the regions on the measures to be taken in the field of bottleneck professions, e.g. granting a wider premium to jobseekers undergoing training for a bottleneck profession. More freedom and exemptions could be granted for job search, especially for job seekers who are undergoing training for a bottleneck profession. These are all measures for which I invite you to go into more detail in the thematic debate, because you can stay busy here. I'd like to get on with my story. I had joined the tax and parafiscal measures. I quote: 'In this way, Minister Van Peteghem succeeded in closing down what his predecessors failed to achieve, in particular the structural gap between too high company premia and real personal taxation'. That is a small measure, but it is a measure with effect to reduce to a minimum the so-called public loans, the difference between company tax and the refund of taxes, with a net result in people's pockets. I want to finish the chapter and move on to the energy standard. I have already said a few things about this. So I might be able to start off with just and fair taxation. This is an important battle point for Christian Democrats, because the acceptance of the welfare state requires, of course, a fair contribution from everyone. What's in it? What's coming? The sports clubs and the brokers are an important aspect. What everyone thought was impossible for years is now going to be part realized. There will be restrictions on various issues, including the RSZ, to obtain an advantage and an equalisation so that people who earn more also contribute more. That is not the case at the moment. Measures will also be taken in the area of company withholding tax to justify them more. It is important that this be looked at further. It is also very important that we address the brokers who have been in the news in recent weeks with unfresh practices. We reduce real estate fees and ensure greater transparency. The full football data is subject to the anti-money laundering law. These are important measures to protect football, which is very relevant to society, in part from abuse. I think it's urgent time for more moral standards. The sector itself is involved, but these measures contribute to this. Another matter is the amicable settlement. Over the last few months, we have been faced with the situation that friendly solutions of millions of euros have been concluded through the buy-back law, after which this could be charged as a professional cost by the company. As far as we are concerned, that is not fair at all. Fines and penalties should not be deductible in some kind of income tax. In terms of justice, too, we must tackle fraud. Better controls with additional staff are being used, which is also an important part of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u107	Mr Mathei, you are saying that you are going to fight tax fraud and that you are going to hire staff. What I see is that in the figures that the Minister of Finance has given me, the FPS Finance staff is not increasing. It's shrinking. What is crazy is to see that the decrease in FPS Finance personnel corresponds to the increase in staff hired to track down sick workers. It's pretty obvious. Even if we take, not the whole FPS Finances but the controllers, it decreases. Indeed, the Minister of Finance says that "as many people are hired for the transfer pricing unit" but in total, the number of controllers is decreasing. That's the reality. With regard to bank secrecy, it should be recalled that Belgium is one of the only countries to still have bank secrecy and that you announced – this is reflected in the government agreement – that you will come in September 2021 with a data mining on bank balances that are at the central point of contact at the National Bank. It's December, and there's nothing coming! I'll ask you two questions. Why does Finance staff decrease if you want to fight fraud? Why are the measures relating to bank secrecy not applicable today, whereas in this budget and this programme law they were planned for September 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u108	Mr Van Hees, Minister Van Peteghem has repeatedly answered your question about CAP in committee, and it has been explicitly mentioned in the discussion of the policy paper, namely that a study on data mining is currently being finalised. There will also be additional staff for the fight against fraud. This is not new to you either, because you have already asked the Minister three or four times. Better controls should lead to better tax collection, and FPS Finance continues to work on multinationals and specifically monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u109	Your answer is not acceptable, Mr Mathei. You're telling us that the minister will hire staff. I'm telling you that's not the case. When we look at the evolution of the numbers, the staff does not increase. It's shrinking. You tell me the minister has already answered me. There is precisely a contradiction between what you say – we're going to hire staff – and the numerical answers that the minister gave me. FPS Finance staff are decreasing, they are not increasing. Don't come here to say we're hiring staff! We're liquidating staff to fight fraud. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u110	I have said that there will be additional staff for the fight against fraud. Part of the replacement of staff may be filled by computerization. The age pyramid makes that clear. That is exactly what the Minister has already said to you. A one-to-one replacement is provided for the control functions. Over the past year, there has been the roll-out of the greening of commercial vehicles, the motor of making our mobility more sustainable. There's more to it than that. On the one hand, the tax advantage of diesel is reduced gradually, while at the same time the investment deduction will be increased, so that investments in green mobility become interesting. That is the incentive to be given. The flight tax is also a measure on greening taxation and a first step towards the correct settlement of certain costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u111	I do not know if you are going to address this point, but your Minister of the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, has faced one of the largest social movements in the police. It has even succeeded in bringing together all the police unions together against it! The police are calling for an increase in staff and a wage increase – which has not taken place in 20 years. After several weeks, the minister made a proposal that was denied because it was largely insufficient. The police will continue their actions until they are satisfied. At the police level, 4,800 officers are missing. In the policy notes of the government and Ms. Verlinden, it was anticipated that 1,600 police officers would be hired annually. But there are 1,400 people who retire a year. The net is therefore 200 more agents while 4,800 are missing. When will the frame be completed? In addition, among the first victims of this staff shortage are the Federal Judicial Police, which conducts investigations into organized crime, child crime, drug trafficking and financial crime. How do you want to fight against financial crime with a small staff and a judicial police that is virtually bankrupt today and that does not have the means to carry out this fight? My colleague Van Hees spoke of the FPS Finances, which is seeing its staff cut down to fight tax fraud. Here, in order to combat financial crime, the officers are not there and there is no concrete plan for a judicial police capable of carrying out these investigations. So what concrete measures do you propose in your majority for police officers and to strengthen the judicial police in order to combat financial crime? This is an aspect that does not appear specifically in the budget that you are proposing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u112	To answer the various questions, I can briefly say the following. Of course, negotiations are currently under way between the trade unions and the minister. I think it is important for a solution to be found there, because the police are important, both federal and local. There are a number of issues such as the impact of the negotiations on local authorities. These are all matters to be taken into account by the Minister in the negotiations. I propose that these negotiations be given further opportunities so that they can be concluded. You talked about dealing with financial crime. On the one hand, there is an effort in the coalition agreement for extra policemen, on the other hand, financial crime must be dealt with in a certain way and in a chain story. If we really want to get away from financial crime, we must ensure that the relay stick is passed on. On the one hand, we need a good anti-money-laundering door, with supervisors and subject entities, to report any money laundering to the CFI, and then to move on to the Justice Department. There should be a common approach to the chain. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in that chain, you indicate that this is seen at a fairly high level, and that is another very important element, namely the local authorities with the administrative approach to financial crime. We see in the field that financial crime is emerging in small, local initiatives. You can do that through the classic car washes, but that also goes to sports clubs, among other things. That is important and Minister Verlinden has taken a very important initiative in this area. I can be a bit chauvinistic here: the ARIEC in Limburg can be an example for the whole country. This is going to work specifically on the undermining of crime, along with the local authorities. What was first a pilot project was anchored by Minister Verlinden. You have to take these things with you in the story, but you reduce the story to personnel, staff, staff. It's a common approach, it's a relay, it's a chain approach from high to low, from left to right, to local government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u113	Mr. Mathey, you're referring you to the local police. In fact, one of Ms. Verlinden's manoeuvres, in response to the police's action in terms of pay increases, was to call on the local police to participate in this wage increase. Sending the bullet back to the local police doesn't go to the police. This must not defy the minister's responsibility. The Federal Judicial Police is under the Minister's jurisdiction. That's where the bastard hurts. When judges explain that they are not investigating financial crime because they do not have the police to do so, it is not the responsibility of the local police but of the Minister of the Interior. And that's what I'm asking you about. What is the Minister of the Interior doing to increase staff? Indeed, if judges do not find police officers to conduct the investigation, there is a lack of staff. That's what my question is about. What answer can you give us? There is nothing concrete in the documents we have received. Neither the budget nor the policy note reflects this increase in staff. She doesn't even talk about it. I asked the question precisely enough to get the details, but these details are not repeated. How do you want to fight financial crime if you don't even have the agents to conduct the investigation? You talked about the different links in the chain. I agree with the fact that there are things to be done in the area of justice and on the whole route, but the most important link is the investigators. They're the ones at the beginning of the chain. But there is not enough. It's the judges who say it. Minister, what are you doing in practice to improve this? I have not seen anything in the proposals we have received until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u114	Mr Boukili, I would like to refer once again, as I have just said, to the funds allocated and the negotiations that are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u115	I would like to intervene because I find Mr Boukili's question interesting. It's about the police, the police strikes and so on. I notice, Mr Matheï, that you are simply referring to the budgets that have been allocated. If we look at the budget for Home Affairs, we will see that next year will be lower than last year. If we look specifically at the federal police budget, it will be lower next year than last year. So something went wrong in the budget discussions. I can only conclude that, for example, in the areas of security and justice, Open Vld receives huge additional budgets. I can only say that Green is getting huge extra money for its gas plants. When I look at the red parties, they appear to be getting money everywhere, but specifically for development cooperation, a billion euros will be added from the foreign affairs budget in two years. But if we then look specifically at the budgets for your party, CD&V, it turns out to be falling. Apparently, something went wrong in the budget negotiations. I think that deserves a serious answer. What happened there? Didn't you ask for budgets? Why do all these other departments, managed by other parties, receive money, and does Mrs Verlinden have to send the police the message that she has to do it with her own budget of Home Affairs? That is a very serious question that you cannot simply get rid of by saying: the negotiations are in progress. In the documents we are about to vote on, the budget is falling. And that is what Mrs Verlinden has to say, because apparently the other parties have been treated more lovingly in the budgetary negotiations. If you have any other explanation, I would very much like to hear it, but this question deserves a real answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u116	Madam President, the problem is much wider than Mr Loones has outlined. I have waited until the end of your speech, Mr Matheï, because normally you always go over the achievements of your ministers and also the budgets they bring in. I'll go over your ministers. For example, on page 69 of the Court of Auditors' report, Sammy Mahdi says: "The funds in the general budget for Fedasil are therefore not yet fully quantified in the budget. As a result, the Court of Auditors cannot assess whether the resources from the general interdepartmental commission will be sufficient to offset a possible increase in volume effects. 'Strengthening the volume effects' is bureaucratic language for the massive influx of migrants in this country. For the record, my party wants less influx and more outflux. However, the Court of Auditors' report shows that there is no extra budget for Fedasil, that there is no extra budget for Sammy Mahdi and that there is no extra budget for increasing the return and the outflow from this country. Minister Van Peteghem does not get far with his broad fiscal reform. The abolition or extinction of special social security contributions should not be placed on the government table until the Greens have first approved the flight tax proposal. The reverse clicking system, a pure cheek area, was announced in Parliament, but the proposal was ultimately not put on the government table. The conclusion is that Minister Van Peteghem did not receive any significant budgets either. Mrs Verlinden has also been struggling with the unions for weeks. During the budget negotiations, her department didn't take any money out of the fire. Your three ministers have not raised any significant budgets. My question is quite clear: what is the added value of CD&V in this government, apart from occupying a number of ministerial posts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u117	My speech concerns the same subject as Mr Mathei's reply. As far as the police are concerned, we have had the opportunity to table amendments in committee, and it is true that there is something surprising about how this budget is arranged. The first surprising thing – and I think the most significant – is the fact that the minister has often told us that additional resources are provided for the police budget. We have also stressed this positive effect. It was, of course, a request that we had made with others for a number of years, but on this point, we can see very quickly that this envelope is denied by linear cuts across all the departments of the State, including the police. This point remains a huge question mark for us. Why give with one hand and take back so quickly from the other? Is it for the purpose of lure? The second very surprising thing is the absence, at this stage, of sufficient budget to compensate for the end-of-career regime (NAPAP). It is the Court of Auditors that says: for 2022, there is a shortage of around four to five million euros for the federal police. As far as the local police are concerned, it's in order. When asked about this missing amount, the minister replied that the federal police had only to look for their active police budgets. This means, therefore, that this is once again a complementary saving on the police. The third point which is the subject of the amendment is the discussion on cross-sectoral agreements under way at the police level. This budget, estimated by the unions at 220 million euros, is intended to raise the basic salaries of the police, which have not been so since the reform of the police, and to make some adjustments in other salaries. It is therefore an important budget. I know Mr. Piedboeuf would tell us that everyone is asking and everyone wants – it's true that there are many demands on this – but I can't understand how the government, which says it's a security priority – you will notice that I didn't intervene on justice, I intervene on the police – is making linear cuts on its department by saying that it's the same for everyone and that everyone is at the same rate. That is not to prioritize, in fact. This is not a priority by showing that supplementary budgets are being put in place and that linear savings are not being made because it is considered important. This blurs the message terribly, especially at a time when police officers are particularly irritated. They are also because, at the end of the budget conclave, there is no definitive and lasting solution to the NAPAP issue. It's the drop of water that makes the vase overflow. I would like you to explain why your government's words that police are a priority are not reflected in budget items.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u118	Madam President, my speech has shown that there are many areas of work not only in the short term but also in the long term. To start with Minister Van Peteghem, a game changer, no one can deny that the sustainability of mobility has been deployed. Over the past few weeks, the newspapers have read that the transition to electric driving has indeed started. Minister Van Peteghem has put his shoulders on this last year. This sustainability is even more important, not only in terms of fiscal reform, but also in terms of the huge investments that are under way to green up public buildings. Under the authority of Minister Van Peteghem, the FPIM has prepared a huge investment plan that will be implemented via PPP formulas. Like the sustainability of mobility, this will also be a major change. The claim that there would be no possibilities is a bit short. As far as the powers of Secretary of State Mahdi are concerned, he is faced with a lot of problems and is committed to resolving them day in and day out. There are additional staff on the other side. I will end with the powers of Minister Verlinden. Negotiations are under way to find a solution. We are confident that she will and can bring it to a successful conclusion, especially if we take into account the time when the agreements made will make their impact felt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u119	Mr Matheï, of course you are not a minister, nor do I expect you to make commitments on behalf of the government. You are an excellent Member of Parliament, but the question remains very serious where does the budget come from to meet the on-going federal police. There is nothing in the tables. I understand that as a Member of Parliament you may not be able to give a detailed answer to that. We are fortunate that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the Budget are also present in the Chamber. They may be able to answer the question. At present, we see that in the 2022 budget, the resources for the police and Home Affairs will be lower next year than last year. We hear from all sides that negotiations are under way, but that the line is very clear: if the police want to settle something, they will have to do so within their own budgets, while all the other parties in the government receive money. They all receive money: the socialists, the ecologists and the liberals. The Christian Democrats do not, however, get that, which is why they asked for extra money for the police during the budget talks. If CD&V has asked, why has it been decided not to go into that? Is there room for extra funding for the police in 2022? Does the government itself come forward with proposals on this matter and when will it do so? Secretary of State De Bleeker said there will be an adaptation magazine at the beginning of 2022. Can that perspective be given to the police forces? In any case, Home Affairs is now getting less, while other budgets are increasing considerably. Maybe the government can shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u120	Mr Mathei, I will try to be a little clearer and more precise. Through their movement, the police demand a wage increase. I'm not teaching you. According to their demands, the wage increase amounts to EUR 200 million. This EUR 200 million is not on the table. You say negotiations are under way, but the money is not on the table. Ms. Verlinden states that she will give a part of it - first agreement that was refused. She returns with this saying that the second part, to complete, will come in 2024. In 2024, I think there are elections. I do not believe that this promise will be fulfilled. Besides, it's for this reason that the police don't let go of the case. A second aspect of this story is that the same Mrs Verlinden, Minister of the Interior, announces that she will inject 50 million euros a year for uniforms. The last time we did this, this process took six years. The budget for uniforms can therefore be rounded to EUR 300 million. The police are asking for 200 million pay increases. Your majority partner, Mr.Bouchez of the MR, had stated in a television interview that he was in favour of prioritizing the increase in police salaries rather than uniforms. These are the words of a majority partner. What is wrong with your majority, which prevents you from responding to demands for salary increases for police officers rather than injecting $50 million a year into uniforms? That is a specific question. You're referring me to the negotiations, but there's no money on the table for these negotiations! If Ms. Verlinden wants to negotiate with the police, she must at least have a budget to do so. But she doesn't have one! What is the purpose of these negotiations if the budget is not available? What are you going to do in practice to raise salaries and, above all, to increase the number of judicial police personnel needed to combat financial crime? I come with specific questions but the answers remain unclear!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u121	Madam President, I would like to take the floor with the permission of my fellow Members. Apart from the fact that I understood that the growth path for the federal integrated police increased by EUR 50 million last year and will increase by EUR 70, 90 and 100 million in 2022, 2023 and 2024 respectively, very concrete, important and interesting questions have been raised regarding the ongoing negotiations. You will not blame us as Members of this House for not negotiating with us. That is what the Minister is doing, and at the moment she is doing so with full commitment. In the coming hours, she will be debating with you here in the Chamber, specifically the Department of the Interior and the police in particular. At that moment, you can ask her perfect questions about those negotiations. Let us be clear, these negotiations must be given every opportunity and, of course, the Minister of the Interior will discuss this with the government. We will see what these negotiations are about, but we dare to hope that they can be concluded in a positive way. My suggestion would be to ask those questions to the person most likely to do so at the moment, namely the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Verherstraeten. I certainly don't want to repeat myself. Of course, we will ask those questions to Mrs Verlinden when it is time for the thematic debate. The problem is, however, that we can already estimate at this stage that it will probably not be able to respond, or will not be able to respond, because it needs a broader commitment than just its own. She needs to know if she is also supported by the budget. Now it is a coincidence that we are in a general discussion and there is someone here who is responsible for the exercise as a whole, namely the Prime Minister. We even have the luxury of having the Secretary of State for the Budget here. Of course, we will interply with Mrs Verlinden, but we would like to give her a gift. We want to be able to tell her, "We helped you. In the general discussion we had the debate, the opposition made some very good suggestions and we heard here that you finally have the support of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the Budget, which you apparently did not have at the time when the budget was drawn up." After all, the Minister didn't get anything extra today. Yes, it is therefore a question for the thematic discussion, but it is also a political question that belongs in this debate. I still hope that there will be an answer from the government banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u123	I'm rounding up. The last political year was dedicated to corona, floods and now also a fourth and fifth corona wave. We must act quickly in the coming year to combat the crisis. At the same time, it must also be a year in which we can achieve reforms and investments in a credible and realistic budgetary framework. They are needed to safeguard our prosperity, to ensure our health care and to keep our rule of law functioning at a high level. We must ensure that as many people as possible have a job, a good income and a decent pension, that they can stay healthy as long as possible and live together in safety. Ladies and gentlemen, because we find that in what is ahead, our group will support this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u124	Madam President, I would like the report to state very clearly that a number of times the government was asked to give its support to the police and to make it financially firm, but that both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the Budget decided not to answer that question and pay tribute in silence. I find that particularly remarkable and regrettable. Mr Prime Minister, when you spoke just now about some of the challenges of the ecologists, you did take the floor, and also when it came to a number of questions from the Socialists, but when it comes to the issue of the Christian Democrats and our police, we do not seem to get an answer. That's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u125	Colleagues, nothing will be the same as before the crisis of the Covid-19. At least that's the awareness we were hoping for in 2020. One might have thought that with this crisis, as well as with the flood crisis, the government would have become aware of the importance of public services and social security, for example - public services are the only effective relief buoy in our society. But it's obviously nothing of it. By 2022, the government added austerity to the one that had already been decided for 2021. This government believes that austerity can be added because the recovery is there. However, the Court of Auditors itself makes this remark: the government acts as if the health crisis had passed. In the same way that this government is following a policy of yo-yo health in the face of the pandemic, there are the same shortcomings in fiscal policy. We see a glow of recovery and we release austerity. Instead of declaring economic recovery, you would better take into account the resumption of the pandemic, including from a budgetary point of view. If there is a key sector in this pandemic, it is the health care sector. Today, we need to save this health care sector. We remember those nurses who had turned their backs on former Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès. Today, the danger is that they and they turn their backs on their profession because they and they can't. An ICU nurse says: "In seven years of my career, I saw 29 colleagues leave, only one of whom was in boarding school. The best specialized nurse in my promotion held a year in the hospital, then changed her job. What a waste!" That is the current situation. We already talked about the White Blouses Fund earlier, Mr. Piedboeuf. In October 2019, in this case, the PTB had voted for this famous amendment - a majority had come to pass an amendment of 402 million euros to hire additional staff in health care. At the time, it was true that the MR was against it. The same Mrs Wilmès, then Minister of Budget, shouted loudly. We were called populists. She said: 400 million, but you can imagine how much! Today, with hindsight, we realize that these 400 million were more than necessary, but at the same time totally insufficient. This is obviously insufficient because it is not enough to hire. We said it earlier. There is also a need to upgrade the profession to prevent caregivers from leaving it, to prevent them from leaving it, and to bring back the 19,000 nurses who no longer work in this sector today and have chosen another sector. That's what's at stake. Mr Piedboeuf, sometimes you said: we have to find them, the nurses. But they exist! They exist, but they are no longer in health care. They are elsewhere, and that is the problem. The PTB's plan in relation to this is to complete the White Blouse Fund. Somewhere, we could say that it is the White Flouze Fund that adds to the White Blouse Fund, since it is a question of finding ways to make the profession attractive today. We propose to increase the gross wage by 10%, to grant a 100% premium for night and weekend work, since today we are well below what is done in other sectors; and also to relieve staff at the end of their careers and to come with the right to a pension from 60 years old and recognition as a painful job after 35 years of career. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. We hear that Minister Gilkinet already agrees with our free self-tests. We hope that he will also agree, that Ecolo-Groen will also agree with this idea of injecting the funds needed to have nurses returning to the health care sector. Autotest free, I said: the experts are unanimous. The limits of vaccination, we see them. We're in the third dose. Maybe we'll get to the fifth wave. They are unanimous. Even yesterday, on the RTBF, you heard the infectious scientist Leïla Belkhir say that the government should make a financial gesture to promote public access to the covid self-tests. That is the proposal we are making today. We must avoid a new wave. We need to invest in a preventive testing policy. You have to provide free tests. We propose to provide two self-tests per person for the end-of-year parties; and for next year, to come with regular free tests. In the United Kingdom, it is possible to obtain a free kit with seven self-tests. Testing can also be generalised in schools, as seen in other countries. Positive lessons must be learned from other countries, in Switzerland, Austria and Germany. There are regions that do and others that do not. When you compare, you see that the results are really convincing. We call for a vote in favour of these amendments that we are tabling today, both to expand the White Blouse Fund and to allow free testing. The austerity, I said, this government imposed it since by 2022, variable effort is added to the fixed effort, which makes a total effort of 2.4 billion euros. Within the coalition, obviously, the right imposed this doubling of effort on the left-wing parties of Vivaldi. A Vivaldi who, in the end, is even more Catholic than the pope of austerity. Indeed, for years we have been told that we must follow what the European Commission, our budgetary gendarme, requires because it is in the Treaties. We have to. Yet today, by 2022, the European Commission tells us that we are still in an exceptional procedure and that we are not obliged to apply austerity. This government will, however, continue this austerity policy. What are the main targets of this austerity? The attacks are on public services, since when we look at the largest restrictive budgets, we have for 2024 - we are gradually going - 600 million attacks on the public service and the long-term sick. Indeed, this government has very little to do with the big tax fraudsters, finding that the big problem is the long-term sick. This represents EUR 480 million by 2024. The biggest posts come from there with more than a billion. Meanwhile, the population is suffering a double penalty: austerity and wage freezes since, while applying this austerity, the same government, through the Dermagne decree, blocks wages at 0.4%. It is even a reduction in salary if one takes into account the health index. This affects the indexation of wages. We therefore have a double penalty for the workers and a contrario, a double offering for the employers who get the wage freeze thanks to this 1996 law of the Dehaene-Di Rupo government, reviewed by the Michel government in 2017. Which doesn't come out of their coffers, bosses want to keep it for their dividends. There is a multiplication of tax gifts, wage subsidies including professional discounts. There is therefore austerity except for the bosses and for the war, it must be stressed. When it comes to war, we finance. Indeed, Defence has a large operating credit that is increasing at a rate of 434 million. To do what? To acquire missiles and other ammunition as part of the replacement of air combat capabilities, i.e. for the purchase of F-35s. So, not only do we pay for the latter, but we pay very much for the missiles and other munitions that we are going to equip them with to kill people elsewhere in the world because, as we know, Belgium does not have a defence policy, but a policy of attack by targeting other countries. It is not an army that defends our territory, it is an army that intervenes abroad. As far as investment is concerned, it is well known that, due to austerity policies carried out by previous governments, the level of public investment is dramatically low. One of the tasks this government has set itself is to invest, despite a problematic budgetary framework. It will be recalled that, in accordance with the European Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (TSCG), i.e. the Treaty of European Austerity, debt must be reduced to 60% of GDP by reducing the gap by one twentieth a year, which for Belgium represents 14 billion savings, each year, for twenty years. At the same time, however, this government declares that it will pursue ambitious investment policies. For example, ambitious Mathieu Michel has said in the press that it is necessary to find 5 billion investments over ten years to renovate public buildings. However, when we look at the budget tables, we find that 50 million euros per year are involved. It will not take ten years, but a hundred years to manage the renovation of public buildings. Ambitious Thomas Dermine pleads in the press for an investment plan of 5 000 billion at European level. But the federal government of which he is a member decided that there would be 1 billion investments. So, according to Thomas Dermine, 5 000 billion is a minimum while for the government it is about 1 billion. Of course, this billion comes in addition to the European manna. But when Europe indicated that Belgium would not finally receive 5 000 billion, that this amount would be reduced, Mr Dermine said that Belgium would be content with what was given to it. I was waiting for him to make a proposal to compensate for what Europe was not going to pay for these investments, but he made the choice to continue to accept things as they are without wanting to fundamentally change them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u126	This can also be seen on the rail. If at Mathieu Michel and Thomas Dermine there is a gap between declarations and ambitions in relation to budgetary reality, at the Minister for Mobility Gilkinet, it is even stronger! There was a big gap between what he said he had done and the reality of the budget figures, Mr Gilkinet saying tirelessly that he had obtained 1.5 billion for rail, a figure that had already risen to 1.7 billion in a few weeks. According to the budget tables, we are looking for this billion euro, but we can't find it. I can only thank the Secretary of State for the Budget, who is here today, for giving me a table in the Finance Committee that shows the reality of the figures, since, apart from EUR 250 million of investment, all the amounts are included. Thank you again, Mrs. De Bleeker. What do you see? That in the legislature is not an increase of 1.5 or 1.7 billion, but a decrease of 62 million euros! How can an increase of 1.7 billion be confused with a decrease of 62 million euros? By manipulating the figures a little, there is no other answer, that is, looking at the extra amounts and ignoring the less amounts. That's the reality! This is all the more dramatic as structural endowments decline, which means that after the legislature, endowments will be weaker than before. This is a fundamental problem for rail. I did not receive any explanation either from Mr Gilkinet when I questioned him or from Mr Vanden Burre, who persist in repeating their striped record "yes, we did this and that" but never by confronting these figures with the table that the Secretary of State has given us. This is problematic in a budgetary debate. A budget debate is also a debate on figures. When you come with numbers and the tables show more, you have to be able to confront them. At Ecolo, obviously, we don't like this exercise. This could show the reality of things. The finding is therefore a disinvestment on the rail, and at the same time, this government is creating a big fiscal niche in our country that costs 3.75 billion every year: corporate cars. Finally, this is the government's transport record! The energy bill is also a problem. There's already this wage freeze. As I said, taking into account the health index, i.e. excluding energy products and, in any case, fuel, we do not even have this tiny wage increase of 0.4 per cent; on the contrary, we have a 0.7% reduction in real wages. We were very pleased to hear, here in plenary, the Minister of Finance replying to my colleague, Raoul Hedebouw, that he was going to propose the reverse click to the government, i.e. a reduction in excise duties to alleviate the energy bill on fuel. Today, in the Last Hour, I discover an article that says: "Haut fuel prices. The inverted ratchet is still out of date. However, Minister Van Peteghem had promised that he would plead in his favour." Minister Van Peteghem tells us that he will propose the inverted ratchet to the government but nothing comes out! And when I read the article, I have an additional stupefaction as I learn that the minister has never even defended this idea in the government. I thought the government refused. No, I don't! He didn't even defend her. What is even stronger is the minister's explanation: "I was going to propose it if the price at the pump exceeded 1.70 euro." Today, however, the price at the pump is 1.75 euro. His explanation therefore does not hold the road at all. It's a big mess! Above all, is it normal to pay EUR 1.70? That's 50 cents more than a year ago! Obviously, we won't have that inverted ratchet. At the same time, as a package of consolation, the Minister of Finance proposed a reduction of 1 euro, not per litre but to fill up. But, well, if it's to have 1 euro per full, it's less serious than it would have been if there had been a real drop! For energy standards, it's the same thing. They are only peanuts because the decrease is 8.76 euros per year, or 73 cents per month, to reduce the energy bill of households. It'll put butter in the spinach! Just a little butter! We refuse to hear this proposal supported by tens of thousands of people: the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 6 % on energy. That is why we are resubmitting an amendment on this issue. If you have to find money, you can find some in professional discount exemptions. It is this gift that makes the employer levy the worker's tax to pay it to the tax but can keep part of it for him. This part will amount to €3.7 billion for the year 2022. This government has decided to study to see if it's justified. Finally, the Minister of Finance told us that he did not yet have enough elements. However, there have been studies by the Court of Auditors, the Office of the Plan, the National Bank and the FPS Finances, but the minister tells us that the issue still needs to be studied. How hard it is, ladies and gentlemen, when we have to review the gifts we offer to the bosses! When it comes to attacking long-term patients, measures are laid in a pot-spoon. But when you have to touch the bosses, it's really complicated. Finally, this government decides to block professional discount exemptions, but when we look at the budget, we go from 3.666 billion to 3.736 billion. This decrease is in fact an increase of 60 million euros! I could say the same for tax fraud, for which we are looking hard for measures. There is a decrease in finance staff. At the level of justice, we learn that in Brussels, they throw tax fraud cases in the trash. For the police, tax evasion is no longer a priority. It is a very nice budget for the richest, for the billionaires who are not worried about this tax, for the bosses who will benefit from a wage freeze and unheard of gifts. It is not a budget that is made up of the workers, the sick, the nurses who have to care for them and the whole population. You will understand that we will not be able to support this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u127	Mr President, first of all, you know that I am only a "blue" in politics. Is this a general or thematic debate? I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u128	Mr Leysen, you are going up to the gallery to speak. This is still the general debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u129	Secondly, is compliance with the rules laid down in the Conference of Presidents required and required?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u130	In any case, I note that Mr. Van Hees spoke exactly for twenty minutes and was not interrupted. I must say that, as an entrepreneur, as a 'blue flag' in Parliament, I am still surprised at the way things are handled here. For me, a debate must be something constructive and we must be wiser. It has to be a dialogue that teaches something. But let me come to the essence; I will certainly try to stay within the timeframe. I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the government and in particular that of Secretary of State De Bleeker, in these difficult times. As an entrepreneur, I realize how difficult it is to draw up a budget, a budget that is obsolete the day after it is drawn up. Moreover, it is always a difficult exercise for a company and for the public authorities to find the right balance between inevitable measures or investments and necessary reforms. I also appreciate the desire of the coalition to reconcile by definition many parties, particularly the Secretary of State, with a view to reducing the deficit. The government has had to take a lot of difficult measures in the past year because of the covid pandemic. They protected those who needed it, for example with rights of bridging for self-employed persons and temporary VAT reductions. It also took measures to support the early economic recovery through an investment deduction and a tax shelter for start-ups. In addition, it gave a first modest impetus to major reforms that will strengthen the relance and care of the climate in our economy, including by adapting the rules on the company car fleet. All this had a beneficial effect on our economy and protected the incomes of our people. It has also brought our entrepreneurs and our consumer confidence back to life, although we have to admit that the last quarter is somewhat disappointing, because we are facing a new wave. But we have also noted that, despite all the measures taken, this will not only be the case with us - the uncertainty is increasing and the recovery is also accompanied by a tight labour market, with international supply problems, with increasing inflation and increasing energy prices. It is in that context that we must look at the budget. As I have already said, I believe that it is a valid piece of work in the context outlined. Certainly for my party, it is important that we respect future generations and that we try to regain control of the debt mountain, which has grown substantially. In accordance with the coalition agreement, the first impetus for labour reform, which we continue to put on the agenda, is given here, with the fight against long-term incapacity for work. We are making a step-by-step approach to accountability in all areas of all stakeholders. Even if the phasing out of the special social contribution means only a mini-mini-tax shift, which must also be used to counter the fall, we are sending out a signal with these modest but concrete cuts in charges. We must strike a balance between measures and savings on the one hand and investment in new policies on the other. In this context, we are taking a step in the right direction with the phasing out of aid measures. That's what it takes to keep a swing in the arm when there's a new crisis coming on us. Is there a perfect budget here? No. Had we wanted to do more in a number of areas? Yes. In any case, we are taking important steps forward. With the modesty it deserves, the European Commission has understood that. This does not prevent us from wanting to be calmer soon with our public finances. The road to budgetary balance is long, and the path we have taken, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, must be followed consistently. The sustainability of our public debt remains the most pressing challenge. Finishing is not only essential to restore breathing space for economic shocks, it is also an obligation vis-à-vis future generations. It is important, first and foremost, that we control the spending drive, which exists in many parties. The low interest rates and the temporary suspension of EU budget rules are not a way to throw taxpayers' money through windows and doors. Madam Secretary of State, the spending reviews you introduced are a step in the right direction. They can be generalised and extended more quickly, and they can also be part of a healthy multi-annual plan, so that we can say goodbye to the cheese bowl. A haircut may be good for the hairdresser; on the other hand, we have to keep all the costs under review with a view to a multi-annual analysis of all expenditure. It is also particularly important that everyone, including our partners in the Flemish government, should exercise their full powers. This requires funding. After all, I have to say that the federal government regularly intervenes in respect of expenditure on powers that do not belong to it. This requires first of all greater transparency about who is responsible for what and where the money comes from. I am thinking here of the entanglement of expenditure and responsibilities between federal and regional authorities or of the accumulation of money flows in and around social security. For example, there is now a need to negotiate with the Communities on the distribution of the costs of the vaccination campaign and to discuss plastic contributions with the regions. Anyone who calls for more regional powers must take responsibility and bear the burden of not only the lusts but also the burden of that attitude. With regard to social security, which amounts to more than 100 billion, which is more than the federal government budget, I repeat the need to reform the labour market, health insurance and pensions to ensure the future of social security. These reforms, as agreed in the government agreement, should also be accompanied by a simplification of the cramping of institutions and the transparency of various financial flows. It can only increase the acceptance in Parliament, which is allowed to approve the accounts with a smile every year, and in the eyes of the citizen, who is also entitled to expect responsibility for his solidarity. By way of conclusion, I would like to point out that the pursuit of sounder public finances must be accompanied by a sound and comprehensive fiscal reform. For us, fair taxation is first and foremost a simple tax, which the citizen understands and where exceptions and favour regimes are kept to a minimum and not the rule. Secondly, fair taxation is one to enable the core tasks of the government, but not to overload the government with numerous secondary tasks. Fair taxation allows for the reduction of public debt and for our economy to be manoeuvrable; we must do what the Netherlands can. Finally, I can only repeat that we can only achieve a fair distribution if we do not tax the resources at higher incomes, which would only prevent the initiative to undertake. Only by growing and creating additional prosperity can we free up the means to show solidarity with those who are struggling. Finally, politics is the art of reconciling the desired with the possible. This budget shows what is possible at the moment and where we wish to go, not by blindly preaching the revolution, but along the paths of graduality. Our group will support the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u131	Mr Leysen, I wanted to interrupt you during your speech, but your speech was so short that I will not speak until the end of it. Apparently, you do not have so many words left for the budget. My ears were buzzing, so I'd like to replicate for a while. In October the Liberals, MR and Open Vld together celebrated 175 years of liberalism. What exactly did you have to celebrate on that day? Open Vld is the only Flemish party, which has been in a federal government continuously since July 1999, so for more than twenty years, and still together with the MR. What has been achieved by the Liberals in the meantime of their most important battles, namely a reduction in taxes and a reduction in public expenditure? As far as the tax reduction is concerned, the government has so far introduced EUR 1.5 billion in taxes. The Court of Auditors' report confirms in black and white that a further EUR 1.1 billion will be added next year. Together, this is EUR 2.6 billion in new taxes under your government. With regard to the reduction of public expenditure, Belgian public expenditure is now 55% among the highest in Europe. The gap with neighbouring countries has only grown in the 20 years that the liberals are part of Belgian governments. So what was there to celebrate with 175 years of liberalism? What did the Liberals actually achieve? What are you still trying to achieve in terms of reducing taxes and reducing public expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u132	Mr Leysen, although you have not yet used up half the speaking time - which is not a problem in itself - you have explained a great deal during those nine minutes. Not every speaker has been given that. I listened very carefully when you spoke about the various entities in this country which should bear the burden of their powers and not just the desires. That is a very strong principle, which we would very much like to pay tribute to in this country. The second thing you've been suing is "the tangle of money flowing around social security." We all know that, on balance, this amounts to an annual transfer of billions in social security from Flanders to Wallonia. This is somewhat related to the first point you have made, namely that the different entities in this country must take responsibility for the choices they make. Whoever decides, pays and who pays determines. That's a good principle. Mr Leysen, my question is as follows. What will you do with your party in the government to make it work effectively? After all, there is a minister responsible for Institutional Affairs who does not, however, excel in action in this area. I'm being careful about expressing myself. If this government takes off the ride, we're almost halfway through the current administration period. So what will you and your party do in the current government and the current majority to address both of the very legitimate points you have made?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u133	My message has been clear. For the budget, I refer to the competent representatives in the government, to the extensive documentation. This is becoming the house of repetition, everything is not repeated five times but ten times. For the rest, I have nothing to add, but thank you for the kind words I have thought I can see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u134	I conclude from your reply that you and your party, with your fine words earlier, will not do anything to promote fair social security or the accountability of the entities in this country for the choices they make. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u135	Mr Leysen, a few weeks ago, a good moment came for you in plenary when suddenly an amendment was tabled for the Buildings Regie, for 300 million. You have taken a clear and fundamental position. As an entrepreneur, you simply could not accept that things happen to the budget at the last minute, with such amounts. That's not your style, not your approach. You refused to vote in committee. Nor did you vote in plenary. You were in a rather awkward situation, because you were rapporteur. In essence, you have actually made a special act there. As a majority member of Parliament, you have clearly distanced yourself from a practice of that majority which was simply not correct. Actually, I have a lot of respect for that. I haven't had a chance to say that publicly, so I'm doing it here. Mr Leysen, I would like to ask you the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u136	No, Mr Loones. That's not how it works. Mr Vermeersch has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u137	Mr President, thank you for your accuracy in leading the debate. It's okay to follow up. Mr Leysen, you are a better reporter in our committee than a debateer in the budget debate. It is clear from your answer, or rather from your non-answer, that Open Vld has had to pay a huge price to get Prime Ministership, namely duty of silence on socio-economic and budgetary matters. You are not going to get any further than to list a number of hollow concepts. I expected more from you, Mr. Leysen. In the committee, you are empowered and you insist that our government is efficient. If I ask questions which must be the fond of a liberal, in particular the reduction of taxes and public expenditure, then you refuse to go along with them. You disappoint me in your non-answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u138	Mr Loones, if a member of the House does not want to answer, he does not answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u139	Mr President, an answer is possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u140	Non-response is an answer. You do not agree, it will be included in the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a long debate. It is probably my naivety, but after-conference conference I think we will succeed in keeping to the agreements and organising our work efficiently for a long debate. I think that we in this House are simply unable to do that. It is a disgrace even if we manage to make our point in less than the speaking time allocated. Imagine that! But that aside. Later on in the thematic debates, I hope that we will be able to go into a number of points in detail. I would have liked to have used my intervention to specify what the four main points in this budget are for us. Finally, Mr De Roover said it at the start of this debate, with a budget one decides what one wants to do next year. It is mainly about political choices and preliminaries on policy. I'd like to focus on that, too. I myself am still quite new in this Parliament and for me it is the first time that we can discuss political choices. There have already been debates on a budget in current times, but they have been a little less interesting, let us put it this way. Last year we were in the middle of a second corona wave and a second lockdown period. At that time, the whole budget was overwhelmed by uncertainty, by the aid measures which, by the way, were quite rightly taken. The current situation is somewhat different. Of course, we are still in uncertain times, but important political choices are also being made. I think it is important to stress this, because COOVID-19, which was so present in the last year and a half, should not be an excuse to make any choices or stand still on other fronts in the meantime. There are many other challenges in this society. That is why I would like to explain the four crucial red threads for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. A first important point is investing in jobs. It is an important choice made in this budget, both through a tax shift and through labour market reform. That tax shift is an important point for us, because we choose to increase minimum wages for the first time in eight years. That hasn't happened in eight years. Many people who work hard every day have not been rewarded for this for years with an increase in a minimum wage. It is an important choice that we want to do this differently now, so that those people get what they absolutely deserve. It is not a small increase either, because from 1 April we are talking about EUR 76 per month, and the years after that there is a significant increase, which makes it absolutely possible for these people to make the difference. That is an important choice on minimum wages, but that is not the only choice we make. In terms of wages just above the minimum wage, an effort is being made by adjusting the working bonus. By abolishing the special social contribution, work must return to pay. We have already discussed today that this is a first step, but it is an important step, because it is a turning point in policy. In doing so, we are choosing to redistribute the burden more fairly and we are also ensuring that the burden on labour can be reduced. It is a first step in that direction. Not only is tax shift important, labour market reform is at least as important. A great deal has already been discussed in the committees on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions and for Finance and Budget. It is really time to take some steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u142	Mrs Depraetere, Mr Loones wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u143	Mrs Depraetere, you say in your speech that minimum wages have not risen for eight years. I just googled that and immediately arrive at an article by De Tijd about the impact of the tax shift. I read: "A person with a minimum wage of 1,500 euros will eventually earn 146 euros extra net wages per month." This is a complete analysis of the tax shift, and it shows that, above all, the people with the lowest wages and minimum wage have made the most progress. How do you reconcile that with your statement that minimum wages have not risen for eight years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u144	Thank you, Mr Loones, that was brief and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u145	Mr Loones, you refer to the tax shift carried out under the previous government, which made a clear choice to increase lower wages. I believe that this is an important choice, and it is also the choice that is being made now. However, it is specifically about the category of the lowest wages, the minimum wages, which it has always been said when that decision was taken eight years ago that they rose. This was also cited by the social partners.Now a clear choice is made here for an increase in gross wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u146	Of course, you are free to inform where you can. I don't think it's illogical for you to do that with the unions. However, other reports have also been published, which clearly indicate that minimum wages have seen the strongest rise due to the tax shift. I think it is relevant to reflect that information correctly in a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u147	I note, Mr Loones, that you share the objective of ensuring that those lowest wages are improved. You probably also agree that this need is great, because a lot of people who have a job, sometimes even several jobs, nevertheless end up in poverty. So I suppose you think it is positive that these minimum wages will increase on 1 April next year, but also in the years to come. As far as labour market reform is concerned, apart from the tax shift, it is of course important that we carry out a number of substantial reforms. These choices are also planned for the coming year and should be further addressed. A second important principle for us is fiscal reform. There has been a lot of debate on this today, and earlier on in the State of the Union. A comprehensive tax reform is under way. For us, one principle is very important: a euro is a euro. This should be the case for labour charges but equally for other income. For us, that is the principle with which we want to enter into these debates. This budget represents an important step in the right direction. Less burdens are charged on wages and more on polluters, expats, fraud and so on. So in that we make a number of choices. It's a first step, but as far as we're concerned, it's definitely not the last one. As far as this broad tax reform is concerned, it is important for our group to stress that it must take a very concrete form in the coming year. If recommendations are made, it is only logical that they can be implemented within the time limit of one's own legislature. A third important point is social progress. The change in social progress started last year at the start of this government. Many social measures have been included in the coalition agreement and a number of measures have already been decided upon and implemented. A number of social measures are also being continued in this budget and a number of commitments made last year are being further extended. For example, if we look at the healthcare budget, we can see that the savings made in recent years had already stopped, but that the 2022 budget also provides for additional funding for new initiatives, namely 123.7 million. This is important in a sector where reform is absolutely necessary to upgrade the jobs, but also in order, for example, to ensure, with the next lower maximum invoice, that costs can be better controlled and that there is more transparency about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u148	Mrs Depraetere, I have two questions for you: you have just mentioned labour market reform and social progress. All that's on the table, hunting sick people, is for our social decline. I was very surprised when a kind of offer was just underway between the N-VA and CD&V, where Mr Verherstraeten said with a lot of fury that what Vivaldi did, namely getting the long-term sick back to work, was historic. I was even more surprised when I saw you applauded for that. We know that the N-VA is an antisocial party that hunts down the unemployed and the sick and wants to save them, but you applauded me for that. What is happening here to the long-term sick and what is now on the table is for us a red line that has been crossed. I just wanted to point that out to you. Secondly, social progress. This government has invested a billion euros in the care staff, in social security, in response to the savings, but the corona crisis has added to that. Today, hospitals are closing down and staff are pulling out of the hospitals. The nurses, despite the billion euros, have not returned to the hospitals. Those 19,000 nurses don't work there anymore. Will you support us in our plan to invest EUR 1.9 billion more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u149	Your first question was about the long-term sick. What bothers me a little bit in the discussion is the frame you want to make of that. You want to make a very negative story of that while it is absolutely a positive story for us. You must explain to me what is social about people who are long-term ill but who are asking themselves to get back to work and leave them at home. They want to reintegrate into the labour market, which makes people feel useful again. We may disagree on this, because we consider it absolutely necessary to invest in those people. We want to provide the right guidance for those who can get back to work. That's the essence of the whole plan. I know you're trying to make something different out of this, but we, too, are getting stories from people who are long-term ill. Those people also contact us and let us know that they are happy that at least serious efforts are being made to ensure that they can get back to work. It is not an antisocial measure, it would be if it were to be subject to severe sanctions. However, we do not do that here. We have had this debate before. Of course, everyone is being asked for a certain responsibility, which is the only way to make something work. However, I do not think that the approach you want to give is at all the thrust of this plan. Your second question concerned the care and investment in it, which you consider insufficient. However, there has been an important turnaround. For years we have been saving on our social security, including health care. However, this government does not. The savings have been stopped and we are now investing in our care. As a member of the Health Committee, you have probably also noticed that Minister Frank Vandenbroucke is quite active in the field of health care reform. In that committee one draft law after another is dealt with, often to annoy the opposition. So it's hard to say he's sitting still in that area. It concerns, among other things, the upgrading of the jobs and the reform of hospitals. There's a lot of other things in the pipeline. I have already explained the investments and new initiatives, and they are also reflected in the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u150	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, it is your honour to praise the Minister. However, could you please list what emergency measures Mr Vandenbroucke has taken to ensure that regular care can be guaranteed in a crisis situation? This has not been the case in recent weeks, because the bizarre idea has been assumed that in the event of a crisis such as this one the regular care should be able to cope. During the fourth wave, however, there is even less regular care due to the loss of staff. I therefore wonder at this fourth wave how it is possible that a health minister does not anticipate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u151	Mr De Roover, I am surprised that this question has come from you, especially after I had just noticed that there has been considerable savings in health in recent years. Anyway, you were in the government then, of course. For us, one of the main reasons for joining this government was to ensure that the turnaround could be implemented and that investments would be made back in that area. Apart from that, I think you are insinuating that the Minister of Health must ensure that there are more hands on the bed. I think, however, that you also realise in all honesty that this crisis is of such magnitude that even in countries where care has not been saved in recent years but has invested heavily on the contrary, there is also a shortage of beds. That's the way it is. In addition, the Minister of Health has recently, in committee and on the Walloon TV channels, listed how many additional staff have been added. That was then about the Walloon and Brussels hospitals, but if you would like a list of the Flemish hospitals and the exact numbers there in the thematic discussion, he will be happy to give it to you. At that time, it was clear that in many hospitals, 50 to 100 staff are now working extra. So what exactly is your question? Can it be more? Fortunately, there are a lot of people who have started training in the meantime, but you also understand that these people need to follow training before they can be effectively employed. That is what is being worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u152	Of course, you don't know that that little string of savings is right. There's no saving. There may have been less growth than some might wish. So, of course, that's a bizarre interpretation of saving the word, but okay. I'm talking about the expansion vessel. On the one hand, we must ensure that we have good regular care, but on the other hand, in a crisis, we cannot expect regular care to be sufficient. However, care should not be built on a structural basis for every crisis situation, it is about the buffer. It is understandable that this buffer does not exist at a first stage of contamination, but it can be expected that a fourth stage of contamination will lead to preparations to ensure that the influx can be absorbed without the need for regular care. That didn't happen. That's a manifest failure of your Health Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u153	Mr President, let us be honest. Allow me to respond to those words. Mr De Roover, let us be honest. The current government has decided, together with your party, to make a number of things possible in the Conciliation Committee. Those laws have also been passed here in Parliament. Emergency laws have been drafted. They have been renewed or renewed. The aim is to ensure that as many people as possible can be involved in the current crisis. It is about enabling volunteers to be employed for more hours than usual. It's about how students can be deployed. It's about how pharmacists can take on extra duties just to relieve the doctors. I don't know what your point is, but that nothing happened to the situation is incorrect. On the contrary, it's all hands on deck. This is also apparent from the emergency laws in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u154	Mr President, before Mrs Merckx comes to the floor, I would like to respond very briefly. Mrs Depraetere, the measures you list have been almost every time measures taken by the Minister of Health too late. He was late with the booster shot. He was too late making it possible again for volunteers to participate in the activities in a vaccination centre. He was late at shortening the interval. These are three measures that have had a huge impact on the health of many people. That responsibility of Mr Vandenbroucke will not be able to talk you out of it. He has clearly failed politically in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u155	I would, of course, like to give Mrs Merckx the floor immediately, but I would nevertheless like to respond because I find it hallucinating that this is from you, Mr De Roover. Why do I say that? Firstly, the measures were taken at the time of scientific advice. I think this makes sense. Meanwhile, with our booster shot, we are one of the better countries in Europe. But apart from that, Mr De Roover, in preparation for this debate I went back to the debate at the State of the Union on the second Tuesday of October, i.e. a month or two ago. I have reread a number of comments from your group, which showed that there was not such a sense of urgency for this issue at the time. That was the case in the debate two months ago, when we discussed a great many of the same issues as today. At that time, your group's approach was completely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u156	Mr President, I would like to take a look at what Mrs Depraetere has said and at the debate with Mr Depotere. I remember how it was said here that the CST would never be applied in Flanders, because Corona had long been overcome there. That's what we heard here two months ago. Mrs Depraetere, I would like to return to the discussion of long-term patients. You say it's not social to leave people at home. It is particularly antisocial to punish sick people and to go along as a left-wing party with the story of flexibility in the labour market. A real social answer would make for less sick. What is happening today is that the retirement age is too high, that people cannot go on a bridge pension, the high workload. All that flexibilisation, Vooruit gets all along with that. At the same time, you encourage people to accept poorly paid jobs. We believe that this is a genuine anti-social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u157	I will respond briefly, even though I have the impression that everything is being thrown into a pile. Tomorrow we will discuss the IPA draft which contains a great deal of opportunities for early retirement. It's all provided for, so I don't know where you're going with that. You're talking about a sanction. We have already had the debate here, I have had the debate on this with your party chairman. We are talking about people who want to get to work themselves. They are asked to respond once to a letter, after repeated calls for it. If we want people who want to get to work effectively to be helped, then it makes sense for everyone to be asked for a little responsibility. This applies not only to the worker, but also to the employer, the doctor, the sickness fund and so on. It is a joint responsibility to help people, and that is the essence of the whole story, whatever you are trying to make of it. I referred to the investments foreseen for 2022 on social progress. Health care is one of them. An increase in the minimum pension is also foreseen on 1 January: €1,421 in a pathway to €1,500. Almost EUR 400 million was foreseen for this purpose, as agreed. We are doing that, even though the times are difficult for the budget. This is a clear choice that is being made, as is the increase in other benefits provided for before 1 January or later in 2022. The long list and relevant tables are given in the general explanatory notes. Perhaps the most important point of the budget before us and the choices that are being made is the choice of an investment budget. Everything stands or falls of course with the degree to which one chooses to invest or save. It is important because it is a firm change from what has happened in the past. Ten years ago, after the banking crisis, a massive choice was made to save heavily as a means of rescue to get out of the crisis. This was not only the case in Belgium, but also in other countries in Europe. It has been very clear that this has not worked. The enormous economic growth that was taking place was still not there. Years later we see the consequences of that. We are now clearly making a different choice in times of crisis. We choose to invest. That's an important choice. In other countries in Europe, savings to the bone in care, for example, have really led to tragedies. Fortunately, this has not yet been the case with us. It is absolutely important that a different choice is made now. We are therefore pleased that, wherever this choice is made, both the European Commission and many of our neighbouring countries, such as Germany, traditionally one of the strictest bookkeepers in Europe, but also our country and this federal government choose to invest and apply a different recipe after a huge economic dip due to the corona crisis. These investments are also evident from the budget. The Court of Auditors also recognises that this amounts to a number of very important amounts in 2022, including the 300 million under the Recovery and Resilience Plan, 1 billion for the federal investment plan and 145 million in investments in the Buildings Regie. There are a number of investments listed, including in the Court of Auditors' report. The European Commission was, of course, invited to the Committee on Finance and Budget this time to give their views on the budget. There were certainly a lot of comments, which is obvious. Every year it is. Those comments must certainly be taken into account. Madam Secretary of State also takes these comments to heart. However, the signal was clear. The European Commission has clearly stated that European countries need to invest in a green and digital transition at this time. Those are also the choices that are made here. The representative of the European Commission even indicated in the hearing that it is positive that our country is going one step further and that a number of investments will be added. The Group of the European People's Party certainly supports this and that is what the budget for next year is doing. For these reasons you can count on our support, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u158	A little clarification, colleagues. Kern's in progress. We still have 20 minutes in this debate, with the speeches by Mrs Matz and Mrs Fonck. Then, Mr. De Smet will have ten minutes. When the interventions of Ms. Matz and Ms. Fonck are completed, as well as that of Mr. From Smet, we will have to make a brief suspension of a quarter of an hour for technical reasons. Secondly, we must continue the debate by calling successively the ministers who are not part of the Kern. We will start with: - Minister Clarinval with the intervention of Mrs Houtmeyers; - Minister Lalieux with the interventions of Mr. Van der Donckt, by Mrs Samyn; - Minister Dedonder with the interventions of Mr Buysrogge, Mr Franken and Mrs Ponthier; - Minister Khattabi with the intervention of Mr Wollants and Mr Raskin; - la ministre Verlinden avec l'intervention de M. Loones, M. Metsu et M. Depoorter; - Minister Kitir with the intervention of Mr Depoorter; - Minister Van der Straeten with the intervention of Mr Wollants, Mr. Van Lommel, Mr Ravyts and Mr Warmoes; - Secretary of State Dermine with the intervention of Mr Loones; - Secretary of State Michel is doing well: he has no one; - Secretary of State Schlitz with the intervention of Mr Creyelman; - Secretary of State Mahdi with the intervention of Mr Franken, Mr Loones and Mr M. Van Langenhove; - Secretary of State De Bleeker with the intervention of Mr Loones and Mr Vermeersch. I'm told Mr. Clarinval and Mrs. Verlinden are in Kern. It changes all the time! From then on, we will start with Mrs. Lalieux. I propose that the services display outside the room the order of ministers and intended stakeholders. Ministers will intervene in the original order once the Kern is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u159	Mr President, thank you very much for this practical communication. Just to make a good deal of agreement, do the vice-premiers move in when the core is over, or are they coming all the way to the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u160	I can't tell you, I'm not in Kern. I propose that we move on to the three speeches by Mrs Matz, Mrs Fonck and Mr M. From Smet, after which we will make an interruption of a quarter of an hour. We start without wasting time with Ms. Lalieux, we follow the order and we reject at the end of the intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u161	Mr President, that seems to me to be a good deal. I would like to suggest that I am sorry, Mrs De Bleeker, to retain Mrs De Bleeker as the very last excellence, as she can give a concluding story about the whole budget. If there are further discussions with the relevant ministers, then Secretary of State De Bleeker has the opportunity to go into them. I say this with some hesitation, but I do not think it would be undesirable to conclude the debate in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u162	Mrs. De Bleeker is permanently at the disposal of our assembly. Mrs Matz, before giving you the floor, I would remind you that your party has a 20-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u163	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, from the benches of the opposition we are between memory, regret and hope. The initial budget for the year 2022 is the perfect illustration. First of all, we have the memory of your promises during the formation of the government, few of which are kept and followed by effects. Secondly, we regret that your budgetary policy is neither responsible nor credible nor ambitious. Finally, we have the hope that one day we will have a government that meets the current challenges. This threefold observation raises questions. Do you know where you're taking our country? We are gathered here to provide the federal government with an initial budget for the year 2022. As others have said, this is one of the most important budgets of the legislature because today's choices will affect the lives of the federal government and, therefore, the lives of our fellow citizens for a decade. This budget is essential as it must both repair the past and prepare for the future, under the best conditions for economic growth, social expectations and environmental challenges. So this pivotal budget of 2022, halfway through the legislature, has a crucial responsibility, with the task of reorganizing and controlling public finances for future generations. Yet, as your speeches resonate as a tender melody that invites good budgetary management, accountability and government awareness of the seriousness of the situation, your actions, or rather – I should say – the absence of your actions resonates like a cacophony, which inexorably leads to the debacle of our public finances. Between 2021 and 2022, according to the government's projections, the budget deficit would increase from about $26.9 billion to $16.6 billion. A priori, we could therefore congratulate the government on this improvement of about 10.3 billion. These figures give us the impression that public finances are under control. And yet, it's far from the case. Indeed, if from 2022 to 2024, the nominal balance seems to improve, from 16.6 billion in 2022 to 14.4 billion in 2024, from 2025 onwards, the nominal balance would return to 18.6 billion in 2026. As far as the structural balance is concerned, and it is the one that matters in the long term, of course, it would even start rising again from 2024, almost equaling the nominal balance. And in 2026, along with the nominal balance, it would derail an additional 3 billion compared to the previous year. How, in this context, do we not fear the worst for our public finances in the medium term? And worse, by 2022, the year before us, the government seems to have taken all the most optimistic assumptions, and reduced spending – mainly related to covid – without anticipating any bad news that could unfortunately happen in the coming months, or even those that were predictable, such as the recovery, for example, of the covid epidemic. The government's implicit message is therefore clear: go to the next adjustments to measure the reality of the 2022 deficit, which will only worsen the reality of the debacle of our public finances in the medium term. Failure, once again, to anticipate, you will be forced to correct in haste what you have done wrong. But beyond this non-anticipation of expenditures, let us also note overestimations of revenues, uncertain revenues, or underestimation of certain expenditures, regardless of the resumption of the pandemic. The Court of Auditors, having pointed out them and mentioned them, and myself in the Finance Committee, I will not come back to that, for fear that there will be a desire against me to blacken an already extremely dark picture. As an example, therefore, I will simply pin the EUR 527 million in vaccine revenue from federated entities, whereas no cooperation agreement has been concluded between the Federal State and federated entities on the principle and method of allocating this financial partition, with the EUR 140 million having a return effect on the creation of ten thousand new jobs equally divided between tax and social revenues, even though the Court of Auditors estimates these overfeited revenues. Let us remember that some of the parties that are members of the current majority have slammed this subterfuge with a mirific return to the time of the Michel government, but do not hesitate to use it today. Thirdly, the lack of budgetary information on the cost of CRM and the exit of nuclear power, while some argue for a cost of EUR 250 million. Will these amounts be passed on to the consumer and what employment consequences? I will also point out that the CDH is a matter of expenditure, that is to say, the failure to take into account expenditure for sectors that would need it. The police sector – we had the opportunity to discuss it earlier and we have tabled amendments on it – and the health care sector, which are forced to strike in order to try to be heard without you blazing much for them despite the great promises of the governments during the last major crises known to our country, namely the attacks and the covid-19. Heroes one day, left behind the next day. I would also like to stress our great perplexity about your policy of reintegrating workers with disabilities. My colleague Fonck will have the opportunity to come back to this during the discussion of the programme law. It's a little bit "Abracadabra, in good health, you'll be, and at work, you'll go back!" In addition, I will note our greatest perplexity about the status of professional footballers and the increase in the exemption from professional discount by justifying it by a reinvestment in training policy but by signing only 55%. It really doesn't care about training and it means making it look like this policy is going to clean up a sector that we know is particularly delicate. In essence, you are not doing much on this reform, but a very small reform. Debt over that time, unsurprisingly in view of the forecast figures of the growing deficit, continues to rise. Like mercury on the patient's thermometer, entity I's debt does not stabilize during the period 2022-2026 and would increase after the conclave's measurements from 89.1% to 90.9% of GDP, an increase of more than 1.8%. Our public finances are therefore ill and, worrying parallelism, just like the management of the covid crisis and the weekly convening of the Codeco with the taking of measures, the government gives us the impression of a management to the small week of public finances, managed with slips of adjustment for lack of anticipation. We try to hide a problem under the carpet while knowing that it will come back even more important later. So we are seriously afraid of the worst. On the register of missed opportunities, we will point to the lack of responsibility for the ageing of the population, while the situation requires a response to the challenge. According to some studies, the share of Belgian citizens over the age of 65 in the total Belgian population will increase from 18% today to almost 26% by 2040. On the other hand, the share of the working-age population, currently close to 60 per cent of the population, will be reduced to 53 per cent by 2040. That year, there will be approximately two potential workers per person aged 65 or over. The proportion of assets in relation to dependent persons will continue to decline in the years to come. As a result of this ageing, revenue from entity I will fall while health care spending for older people will explode. A double mechanical effect will lead to the explosion of the Belgian public finance debt rate and, once again, the government does not anticipate this problem in its fiscal policy. Future generations can drink, with, moreover, a debt ratio that will have exploded in the meantime. But the biggest unknown which makes the revenue and expenditure forecasts currently on Parliament's table obsolete at the outset is obviously the health crisis of the Covid-19 and its economic consequences. As already mentioned, the government has considered the epidemic and its consequences to be virtually complete in its budget. Indeed, it appears that very few resources have been anticipated with regard to the crisis of the covid. The forecast for this purpose in Section 6 of the budget has been zeroed, while on the side of the Public Health FPS, only EUR 120 million has been provided. To put it another way, most of the measures currently in place to help our economic fabric and our workers will only apply until 31 December 2021: no more temporary unemployment or a bridge in 2022! However, the covid is far from over. And already, the government has announced the extension of certain measures that will have costs in 2022, when nothing has been budgeted. Therefore, we will see ourselves in a future adjustment that will put on the table the actual expenditure figures for Budget 2022. The deficit announced by the government at EUR 16.6 billion has already been revised upwards and is likely to be increased several times over the course of future adjustment slips. Do we think that the government is responsible for the deterioration of public finances linked to the short-term economic situation largely caused by the covid crisis? Of course not! Do we think that the government should not intervene to support the economy in this extremely difficult environment? On the contrary, we believe that he must do so. What we condemn the government is its inability to anticipate, predict and budget expenditures. In the meantime, moreover, the government is unable to contain the other current expenditure of the federal state, or even worse, it uses the crisis via the general derogation clause in order to lead a great train, without thinking about the disastrous consequences of its choices for future generations. At present, it is crucial to consider each public euro spent. Is it a well spent euro, preferably invested to relieve future generations? Would it not be better used elsewhere? Recall the federal government's investment agreement. The target was a return to a public investment rate of 3.5% by 2024 and 4% by 2030. And according to the absolute figures set out by the Secretary of State for Recovery in his general policy note, there is also a need for the cumulation of federal public investment to reach at least EUR 11.6 billion over the period 2021-2024. In 2021, however, the recovery plan was implemented to the tune of only two million euros. In short, where are this government's productive investments? How will we reach the 11.6 billion euros that Secretary of State Dermine has repeatedly announced to us? How can this be achieved? We will therefore see, in fact, whether this ambitious target is achieved by 2024, but it will be all the more difficult to achieve since, as already stated, the European budget should gradually tighten from 2023 onwards, thus limiting the room for manoeuvre of the Member States. We are therefore seriously concerned that this is still an unfulfilled promise from the government. However, let us not be fooled: promises only bind those who listen to them, as French President Jacques Chirac once said. In conclusion, do we feel that the government has grasped the seriousness of the budgetary situation and the effects to be produced in the medium to long term? Clearly, no! That is why we will not support the government's proposed budget. I will conclude this speech, which is just as constructive as it is alarmist, and which emphasises your lack of ambition and political and budgetary responsibility, with a brief personal feeling at the dawn of these end-of-year celebrations. Between people who have lost part of their lives as a result of the floods, between those who have lost their trade, their employment, their source of income or even a loved one as a result of the health crisis, between those who are also struggling to make ends meet at each end of the month, between the middle class delivered to itself and between the forgotten future generation, you are proposing a budget that I would call outdated. It is overtaken by events, overtaken by the challenges to be met, overtaken by an artificial sprinkle of semi-politics, thus plunging the whole country into an overwhelming blur. But is it not the whole government that is out of date? We will meet again in early January 2022 with the hope that Vivaldi will have made the right resolution to mobilize. It's time to act, it's probably not too late. Wake up!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u164	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want me to say about this budget again? It is the image of the Vivaldi, that is, without many surprises, without much relief, with some recipes that seem to be built on moving sands. Few projects, few visions and a list of long-term abandonments, which explains the festival of interventions, interruptions to which we have been entitled for a year whenever there is a budget or a general discussion. I'm going to develop some aspects of these renunciations. With regard to the fight against major tax fraud, I would remind you that Vivaldi had set a rather ambitious timetable: the famous €200 million in 2021, the €400 million in 2022, 700 million in 2023 and the famous billion in 2024. These overall budgetary objectives were confirmed in this budget, but it does not provide a precise breakdown between the various measures to obtain these revenues. In the absence of a precise calculation of the expected performance of tax measures and their state of implementation, Parliament is still unable to objectively judge the relevance of the government's estimates for revenue from the fight against tax evasion. Again, we fear that this struggle is absolutely not the government's priority and serves only as a variable for fiscal adjustment, as has been the case so many times for other governments in the past. I will not recall last week's episode, during which we saw six parliamentarians of the majority experiencing and relaying the same fears about the national security plan. This does not encourage optimism. In addition to the fixed effort referred to above, the government agreement provides that an additional variable effort can be made. According to the general budget statement, the measures taken in the context of the variable effort in 2022 should make it possible to clean up the public finances of EUR 1.5 billion, distributed among 25 measures. Of course everyone can adhere to the goal. We're not gonna let the public deficit go. But I wonder what tax revenue estimates are expected to achieve this. I'll give you an example. The government plans a revenue of 430 million euros a year following the famous tax on securities accounts, which some call, perhaps for electoral purposes, a real tax on millionaires. I would remind you that this tax is not a first. It already existed in another shape under the previous government and as under the previous legislature, unfortunately, its real performance remains very unclear. While it is true that anti-abuse measures exist to avoid possible attempts to evade the tax, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to underestimate the imagination of certain advice, allowing some clever little ones to escape the scope of the tax. We wonder about the very future of this tax, on the understanding that seven applications for annulment were filed in the year 2021 before the Constitutional Court. We are therefore concerned that the variable effort will depend on overestimated tax revenues and that there is therefore a significant risk that the consolidation of the public deficit will not occur. With regard to the budget estimates of expected revenues, one aspect that deserves particular attention is the return-to-work plan and the reintegration of workers with incapacity for work. Irrespective of the objective of this measure, budgetary estimates of expected tax revenues raise questions. Indeed, according to the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the basis of the information provided, it appears that the economy which could be made by the Government on the compensation component could be overvalued and that ultimately the impact on social contributions and tax revenues would be undervalued. In other words, there is a significant likelihood that the amount of over $65 million will simply not be reached. Another point on excise tax revenues, it should be stressed that this government is not the first, and certainly not the last, to find in these excise revenues a financial reserve for the closure of a budget. Vivaldi forecasts an increase of 10.4 per cent, an increase of 975 million over 2021. This reflects the conversion of federal gas and electricity levies into excise duties, the increase in excise duties on tobacco, and the reduction in the refund on professional diesel. It should be regretted, as too often in the past, that the government seems to minimize changes in taxpayers' behaviour as a result of rising prices. Indeed, according to the budget estimates, a revenue of EUR 50 million is expected following the reduction of the reimbursement on professional diesel. DéFI shares the objective of reducing the number of thermal vehicles on the roads, but, let's be clear, there is a high risk that a large number of professionals will be filling up abroad, inevitably reducing the expected tax revenues. The SPF Finance points out in its opinion that the net revenue in the event of a decrease in the volume of diesel sales of retrospectively 1.5 and 5% per year would be only EUR 41.4 and 3.9 million instead of EUR 50 million. In other words, the decrease in repayment would ultimately have a negative impact on revenues 2024. On the response to the new waves of the epidemic, it is true that the government has not taken any new covid-19 measures in recent months, but has extended a number of existing measures. With increased contamination and the emergence of the Omicron variant, there is a reasonable expectation that these measures will also be extended in 2022. The Court of Auditors recommends in this respect that the impact of the covid-19 measures should be re-evaluated in the context of budgetary control 2022. We fully support it. One point I would like to stress is the famous reimbursement of vaccines by the Communities and the exceptional revenue of almost 530 million euros. It is true that the Communities have been carrying out prevention for several years, but it seems to me that this debate re-examines the relevance of a division in our country between the authority that manages care and the authority that manages prevention. In a survey conducted at the end of 2020 in 62 hospitals across the country, it was shown that 86% of the Belgian directors-general and medical officers surveyed wanted health care to be re-federalized. I would also like to return to the aspect of international solidarity. This kind of issue has been too little addressed today, particularly on the binding growth path for official development assistance to reach the famous 0.7% of GDP by 2030. The Minister for Development Cooperation stated in this regard that "a concrete step would be taken in 2022 but that it will not be possible to take important steps because the coronavirus crisis, floods and the energy crisis already confront the government with difficult choices". While I welcome the government's decision to increase development aid for 2022 by EUR 12.5 million, I would like to point out that Belgium is still below the European average in this area and that all our direct neighbours are already spending 0.7% or more of their gross national income on development aid. My group therefore regrets the glaring lack of ambition in terms of development aid, even though the government agreement foresees that this path of growth would be defined and implemented by 2021. This budget is therefore not exempt from the rule. Development cooperation continues to remain – and the Minister's comments prove this – an adjustment variable that leaves the doubt as to the government's willingness to actually reach the 0.7 per cent national income target for development assistance. In conclusion, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, courageous colleagues, you will understand that the too many areas of blur and uncertainty surrounding this draft budget for the year 2022 reasonably prevent our group from supporting it. I think the majority will survive, the deficit maybe not!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip150x.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, we will be interrupting work for about 15 minutes. We will begin with the interventions addressed to Minister Lalieux. I recall the decision that has been made. Each group has 10 minutes to share with its stakeholders. If I can afford to say that, in the dark, it will be two and a half hours of debate, not to mention the reply, for ministers who do not attend the Kern and three hours for those who attend it. If we start at 8:20 p.m., do the count! The House's budget and the CREG budget will then be discussed. I am told that we must find a minister who will replace Mrs Wilmès, who is unable to join the assembly for personal reasons. I have just given you all the information that has been transmitted to me as it stands. Enjoy the few minutes of break that are granted! The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 21, 2021 at 8.20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 21 December 2021 at 8.20 p.m.
