ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u1	Question No 55017694C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did indeed go to Verviers, among other things, to take stock of the work and the case of the Verviers courthouse. Today, a conditional permit has been granted to the Régie and phases 1 and 2 of the project are well acquired. Phases 3 and 4 remain. Phase 3 is essential in the project and has been approved by the Walloon Region. On the other hand, the Régie decided to bring an action for phase 4. In the demolition phase will remain only the front classified facade, the floor slab and several structural elements essential for the current and future stability of the building. So we are in a process that I can call "renovation-reconstruction". It should be noted that this work concerns only the Janson wing and has no impact, says the Régie des Bâtiments on the rest of the courthouse. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments is still awaiting a strategic decision by the SPF Justice regarding the services to be hosted on Verviers. Upon receipt of the decision on the judicial services maintained on Verviers, the Régie will be able to analyse the needs of Justice and plan the study of the renovations itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answers I have been waiting for a long time. They are clear about the future of the Janson Wing. It is absolutely necessary to find the necessary agreements with the Region in order to allow the renovation of this magnificent building. It has major architectural importance and is located in the heart of the city. It is necessary to find him new assignments. I will ask your colleague from the Department of Justice to know what is the situation with regard to the programs of the needs of the judicial services that are still established in Verviers, in order to make a useful contribution to the Régie will need these data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u4	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u5	The Government of the Buildings no longer has any commitment to the part of the building previously used by the FPS Finance since the friendly settlement of the lease with the owner was terminated on 29 June 2020. The Regie and I have no further information on its future use. In the context of this termination, a flat-rate friendly termination fee was granted to the landlord as of 1 January 2020 of 809.000 euros. It shall be paid one month after the signature of the contract and by 31 July 2020 at the latest. For the other part where the peace court was housed, a notification was made on 14 December 2020. The peace court will move to the new location by 27 December 2021 at the latest. This is the state of play of the administrative centre in Tienen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u6	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u7	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask my question because I have asked them several times and there is no progress on the Luxembourg College in Leuven. There is relatively little vacancy in the buildings of the Directorate of Buildings in my region, but one of the persistent examples remains the Luxembourg College. In a reply last year, you said that your department Flanders Region East would check whether an extension of the Leuven Justice Palace is possible. If this extension is possible, it would be preferable to achieve it within the current Justice Palace. Contacts with the magistrates show that there is a clear need for enlargement, hence my question. How far is the study of the operational service Flanders Region East? Has there been any consultation with the FPS Justice Department? What is the situation with regard to the monitoring of capacity utilisation by the Government of the Buildings? Has it been examined whether a further renovation of the Luxembourg College is needed to refurbished the Leuven services? As I said, the services themselves indicate that there is a great need for enlargement. If enlargement is not possible or necessary according to the studies that would have happened, what strategy will you use to give a new destination to the building?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, two elements are important here. First of all, a validated programme of needs is required for the FPS Justice Buildings. However, that has not yet been done. Secondly, the Regie will explore the possibilities to expand the usable space that the Justice Palace at the Smoldersplein still has to offer, including the attic space that is currently empty. In concrete terms, several proposals were examined and the advice of the fire department and the Onroerend Erfgoed (Onroerend Erfgoed) was sought. Both the fire department and the Real Estate Service of the city of Leuven are in favour of the use of the attic space. Depending on the function, an extra area of 420 to 850 square meters can be created. The FPS Justice is currently analysing the re-destination of the premises in order to reach a conclusion on the additional space that needs to be created. It is not known when the results of this analysis will be available. The study was fully managed by our architects and engineers and its results are known. The Government of the Buildings today stresses that it wants to use the space in a responsible manner and that it therefore wants to optimise the space in the existing Justice Palace. So she wants to make full use of the available space before resorting to an additional building. But before a project starts, the necessity must of course be demonstrated. If it is concluded that the existing Justice Palace and the Villerscollege provide sufficient space for the current and future needs of the FPS Justice in Leuven and that there is no additional need for the National Archives or other FPS, the valorisation of the Luxembourg College will be organised. The Government of the Buildings and the City of Leuven have already had contact with the future of the Luxembourg College. Finally, the Regie stresses that in 2018 and 2019 both the Justice Palace and the Villers College were monitored for their occupation. The general conclusion was that the accommodation of the services largely exceeded the occupancy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. It is also clear that there is absolutely still work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that the Government of the Buildings has done its job. Before she has the need program, she has already started to see how much space is still available for relocalization. I hear you list a number of square meters, but that is of course the cart for the horse. After all, we need to know exactly what is needed. I regret that this has been going on for so long, and I have been asking for this for years. You can't help it. You're doing your job. Apparently, the knot is within the FPS Justice Department and in coordination with the local courts. There I hear clear sounds that there are a lot of needs and that the current number of square meters is not enough, not even with the numbers you just mentioned. So to be continued, and I will continue to question your colleague from the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u12	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u13	In most urban areas, prisons are historically located in the city centre. Such a location has certain advantages, such as better accessibility or close proximity to the court, which reduces the risk of transferring detainees. As part of the Master Plan III: Detention and internment in human conditions of November 2016, it was decided to maintain the secondary prison in Leuven. In recent years, the Buildings Regie has invested considerable sums in that prison. At present, the low voltage system is being completely renewed in order to improve security. Moreover, given the density of the region's population, it must not be forgotten that it is very difficult to find a new place to build a new prison without having a major impact on the area and inciting resistance from local residents and even politicians. The resulting legal proceedings are not only time-consuming but also very expensive. For the above reasons, no investigation has yet been carried out into possible alternative locations for Leuven's secondary prison. Taking into account the urban context, such as parking needs, buffer capacity, etc., and without a specific programme of needs, we can estimate the area needed for a prison with 150 inmates on at least 3.5 to 4 hectares. The Master Plan III identified priorities within a certain budgetary framework. However, the dense urban context of Leuven and its surroundings should not prevent us from considering all the possibilities and optimising the use of available resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u14	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. The prices for houses in Leuven are the highest of all center cities. So that plot could certainly be used for a project for affordable living. You indicate better accessibility in the city and there are fewer risks involved. It would be hard to find a new place. These are matters for which a solution could be found. Of course, the number of properties in a city cannot be easily expanded. In the long term, affordable living in the city may be an even greater problem than finding a place for a prison for some 150 prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u15	Mr President, as a member of the Chamber, at the moment I am not aware of negotiations, but on the basis of the information provided by the Government of the Buildings, Flanders currently pays EUR 250,000 a year, as compensation for the right to use the building. In terms of price, given the unique and strategic nature of the site, it is difficult to determine a market price for this building. PricewaterhouseCoopers has valued the building according to the depreciation method for a total of 3,583.000 euros. In the case of sales, a thorough analysis is undoubtedly needed to determine a market price that is as close to reality as possible. However, a sale is not envisaged for the time being. Together with my colleague, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, who is responsible for science policy, we want to return the Dynasty Palace to its full tourist and cultural potential, as a window for the wealth of our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u16	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, this government has clearly opted for the energy transition. For example, the important decision was taken to make tax deductible only commercial vehicles that do not emit greenhouse gases, such as electric cars, from 2026 onwards. So it is moving in the right direction, but the citizens and businesses of course also expect the federal government to set a good example and thus to electrify its fleet at a rapid rate. Of course, this can only be done under the condition that the parking facilities of the federal buildings are sufficiently equipped with full loading infrastructure and that there are therefore sufficient loading posts to charge the electric cars. I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give an overview of the current loading infrastructure per federal building under the control of the Government of the Buildings, both in terms of number and capacity? That is a question which may also be answered in writing. Secondly, can you indicate the plans of the Government of the Buildings regarding the installation of loading posts in federal buildings? Thirdly, can you tell us what challenges the Buildings Regie provides for the accelerated implementation of efficient charging infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u18	The initial objective is to achieve a number of charging points equal to 10% of the number of parking spaces for new construction and renovation projects. In order to carry out this transformation, the demand for feasibility arises today from both a technical and a safety point of view. After all, the electrical infrastructure of our buildings will have to be gradually adapted if we are to achieve our main objective, namely the future installation of a number of charging stations equal to 25% of the number of parking spaces in all public buildings managed by the Government of the Buildings. However, the evolution of the reflection on the fire safety of the charging points in underground car parks suggests that additional investments or even non-opportunity will come to light and that some buildings cannot be equipped in a satisfactory way and at a reasonable cost. In addition, underground car parks are advised by the fire department to ensure insurance coverage. This opinion is not only evolutionary, but has not yet been fully formulated in the form of a standard or good practice, as the system is relatively new. In addition to the technical and security aspects, consideration should also be given to a unified centralised management system allowing interoperability of charging stations and flexibility in billing or re-invoicing of electricity consumption to consumers, enabling the provision of all types of profiles, such as commercial cars, private cars of employees and visitors, and compatible with the other charging services available on the territory. The planned charging stations will be able to be used for both commercial vehicles and private vehicles of workers and visitors to the buildings. It will also be necessary to coordinate the actions of the various actors, such as residents, the Buildings Management, the FOD BOSA and the FPS Finance, in particular with regard to procurement policies for electric vehicles. I am aware of the numerous obstacles raised, but I also continue to support the strengthening of our electric charging station park and the extension of that service to the various customers of the Buildings Regie, provided that the safety of residents and buildings is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I had submitted my question at the beginning of June. That was three months ago. I have heard you say that it is really the intention to gradually provide the number of parking spaces, especially in the case of new construction and renovation, with charging posts. I also hear you say that there are technical obstacles and that good practice needs to be taken into account. Of course, there is also an investment on the other side. Since we also expect our companies to use electric cars, it is of course very important that the government thinks about it and is innovative. The government can set a good example and develop good practice on a piece by piece. For example, if investments are made by the Buildings Regie, these loading posts may also be used by local residents to charge their car. I therefore believe that it is very important that it is done quickly, because the challenge is very great. It is also important to consult the Minister of Civil Service on this issue, as public staff will initially use these loading posts. I will also put my question as a written question and continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u20	Secretary of State, last March, I asked you about the buildings of the Federal Police in Vottem. Their state of old age makes them unusable for certain aspects and the solutions you mentioned in the answer seem distant, if not hypothetical. That's why I'm coming back to you with three questions. In the short term, Vottem's two shooting stands are currently out of service. What is the agenda for putting them back into operation? When will the ventilation system be back in operation? Can you confirm that the bullet trap at the small stand, which was due to be re-established last June, has been re-established? In the medium term, to alleviate the discomfort of our police officers and staff, you referred to the move of services to Jemeppe-sur-Meuse. What is the status of this possibility and, above all, when can the services actually move into these buildings? In the long term, when can phase 2 of the master plan be implemented and, above all, finalized? The commitments of the previous Minister of the Interior were that the work would be completed by 2025. Today, I remember that it would be in 2032, more than ten years from now. Between the first decisions to modernize the site and their finalization, fifteen years will have passed. It's an eternity, as you imagine. Should we not fear that this tool will be obsolete as soon as it is inaugurated, which would obviously be regrettable? Thank you for your answers, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u21	Member of the European Parliament, good news, since your question was tabled in August 2021, the two Vottem shooting stands are back in operation and the bullet trap has been installed. With regard to the move, the Régie informs me that following the provision of premises for the National Police Academy (ANPA) in Building 85 of the Saint-Gilles site for the benefit of the Directorate of Security (DAB) and following the constraint induced by the prior destruction work on the site of Vottem with a view to the execution of phase 2, an opportunity was presented to group the ANPA on the same site. This will be a provision of premises within a property of the public intercommunal real estate, the building Agilis, sis rue des Rhieux, 1 to 4101 Jemeppe. The Régie des Bâtiments is exempt from rent for these premises but the federal police will have to intervene in rental charges (energy costs, maintenance, maintenance). This aspect will be covered by an occupation agreement ratified between the federal police and the intercommunal after validation by the Finance Inspectorate. The work of the first installation will be provided by the intercommunal but will have to be reimbursed over the duration of occupation. The concrete modalities at this level will need to be agreed more precisely. The timing will depend on the execution of the work by the intercommunal, which itself will depend on the ratification of the Convention, which determines the arrangements for reimbursement of the work carried out. With regard to phase 2 of the masterplan, the file has been at the Finance Inspectorate since 26 July 2021. After approval by the Inspectorate of Finance and subject to a quick decision by the Council of Ministers, I shall therefore communicate to you a long-term plan: a publication identified in November 2021, a selection decision in April 2022, a publication for an allocation guide in August 2022, an allocation in April 2023, studies and permits between May 2023 and May 2024 and finally, the completion of the first works between 2024 and 2026. Given that there will be two conditional instalments, the completion of the work is likely to carry us back to 2033 if we consider that the first intermediate instalments would have been completed. Finally, with regard to compliance with the current needs of the Federal Police and in order to avoid the provision of obsolete buildings, the Régie des Bâtiments draws up its technical performance specifications on the basis of the standards and performance in force and on the basis of the latest recommendations of the Federal Police on infrastructure. These will therefore be up to date on the date of publication of the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you first of all for these two reassuring news regarding the shooting stand and the solution with the Jemeppe-sur-Meuse site. Thank you also for the third information. This extremely long timetable is indeed a problem, and I hope that we will be able to speed up and, pending that, we will ensure the quality of the infrastructure available to our police personnel, who are in dire need of it to provide optimal service. Thank you for your answers and will not fail to follow the file, as you can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u23	In fact, this is one question, Mr. Chairman, but it has been written twice. This is a specific question for my city of Waremmes. I was informed that a delegation composed of representatives of the Régie des Bâtiments but also of the Office for Foreigners visited Waremmes several months ago to visit the apartments of the former gendarmerie rue du Tram. Three of the four apartments are currently occupied; tenants have shown some concern. They wonder what the outcome of these visits will be and what the future of this building is. This has significant consequences for their future and their accommodation. What are the intentions of the Régie des Bâtiments about this building, Mr. Secretary of State? Does it consider renting it for purposes other than housing? Is she considering putting it on sale? Is there a plan to make available to the Aliens Office? If so, what is this project? Finally, as I said earlier, my first concern concerns tenants. Are they regularly informed of the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u24	Mr President, honourable Member, the original destination of the apartments in question was indeed the sale. Meanwhile, the Régie des Bâtiments has received an application from the Office des Aliens, i.e. accommodation for families as an alternative to detention in a closed centre. The site was visited in this way. The Régie des Bâtiments awaits today the return of the Office of Foreigners. In the event that the settlement could meet the needs expressed by the Aliens Office, the allocation of the property would remain the dwelling and the four housing units would be taken into account. Currently, housing is partially occupied under precarious tenure agreements, but it appears that there are no longer any beneficiaries. In this context, the occupants are well aware of their precarious status. On the other hand, they are not yet officially informed of the discussions with the Aliens Office because there is not yet a formal decision to that effect. However, they have been made aware that their occupation can be terminated, either as part of a sale, as originally planned, or as part of another destination of the complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u26	On 31 December 2020 there were 109 cases for which a financial provision was made. By the end of August 2021, 100 cases were still active. In the nine closed cases a final result has been achieved, with an impact of 231,000 euros on the supply. For the other cases, it is currently impossible to predict the exact impact. These are cases that have been dragging on for many years as a result of lengthy judicial proceedings or as a result of seeking a settlement, but which are difficult for the parties to reach agreement. It is therefore impossible to estimate which cases will be dealt with in the short term and what the financial consequences will be. Finally, I cannot answer your question about the extent of the financial risk because the negotiating position of the Buildings Control in the cases in question is being damaged. The counterparties will be able to determine the chances of success or defeat. This could encourage the willingness to proceed with proceedings. In general, the cases concern claims for damages in the execution of public contracts, invoicing disputes, rental damages and damages, e.g. water damage to adjacent buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u28	I refer again to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u29	The Government of the Buildings informs me that the analysis of outstanding debts has shown that a large proportion of these long-term debts are difficult to recover. The solution to the problem is currently part of a thorough review of debtor management. This revision also includes the recruitment of the staff needed to implement an effective debt management system. However, despite numerous efforts, the Authority is struggling to carry out the necessary sustainable recruitment. The process introduced for the management of claims includes the following aspects. On the one hand, there is a practical check at the level of transactions and accounts by identifying the persons responsible according to the nature of the claims. On the other hand, there is a systematic review of the recent claim in order to avoid the emergence of new dubious regulations. Since my arrival I have put particular energy into the development of this process. For example, at the beginning of 2021, the Buildings Control introduced a new accounting application. It has revised several processes in order to ensure proper follow-up of debtors. A more centralised follow-up of debtors is therefore planned to ensure a uniform and systematic follow-up. In the context of the implementation of the FAS, the Financial Advisory Services, and the new accounting application, all accounting processes are reviewed in collaboration with an external consultant to improve and adapt them to the legislative framework and application.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u30	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u31	Minister, I refer again to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u32	Mr President, the Government of the Buildings has indeed provided an explanation. But it has not been uploaded in the application called e-BMC in which the various elements of the official financial statements have to be uploaded. The reason for this is that the heading 'rights and off-balance-sheet liabilities', in which the Directors of the Buildings wished to upload its explanatory notes, does not allow for the possibility of adding comments. However, the explanatory notes were provided to the Court of Auditors in the context of the audit. In order to follow up on this remark in the future, the Buildings Regie will add this explanation to the heading 'various elements' that affect the familiar image. The Court of Auditors' observations are currently being examined by the external consultant and discussions are being held with the Court of Auditors on the possibilities of including the rented buildings in the accounts in accordance with the principles of general and budgetary accounting. Ultimately, the valuation of the land and buildings concerned will be reviewed and the necessary accounting operations will be recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u33	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, the autonomous port of Charleroi carries a plan to create a marina in the centre of Charleroi. This project will transform the first Walloon metropolis. It will also impact the inhabitants of the area as it will be necessary to demolish the tower of the Regional Finance Directorate, Monnet Street, commonly known as Tour des Finances. Mr Secretary of State, does this project appear on the agenda and according to what timetable? Has an application for a demolition permit been submitted? How much do you estimate the cost of this project? How many people do they currently work in the building? Does the Régie des Bâtiments intend to acquire or lease property to install the FPS Finance staff during the construction? In that case, what would be the timing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the Régie des Bâtiments and I have been informed of this autonomous port project which is an important project in the development policy of the city of Charleroi. I had the opportunity to take a personal tour with the mayor. This is a lot of ambition for the city and it's a very good thing. The Jean Monnet administrative center is actually located on the site intended for the future marina. The Régie des Bâtiments, the City of Charleroi, the intercommunal IGRETEC and the SPF Finances meet regularly to take stock of the progress made by each of the parties. In this case, the IGRETEC intercommunal body is in charge of coordinating the various projects to be developed on the site. Since the analysis of the projects is still under way within IGRETEC, it is inappropriate at this stage and difficult to specify further the future demolition as well as the probable costs of the project, especially since this marina project is not part of the Régie des Bâtiments. Currently, 430 civil servants work in the building. The Régie des Bâtiments has launched a promotion contract to relocate the FPS Finance services installed on the Jean Monnet site to a new location. According to the latest schedule, the move to the new site could be planned for 2024 with a lease until December 31, 2031. The tenders received are being analysed and the Régie des Bâtiments awaits the granting of town planning permits to the bidders in order to request their best and final offer and award the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u36	Of course, I'm still a little hungry because I would like more information on timing, timing and cost of the project. However, I will be attentive to the development of this project because it has a very important impact for Charleroi. I will follow this file closely and will obviously ask you about the development of the project. You're saying you made a call to put the FPS Finance staff back in 2024. I therefore assume that the demolition of the building must take place in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u37	Question No 55018952C by Mr Senesael is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u38	I refer to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u39	Mr Troosters, the amendment concerns the additional expenditure on projects relating to the restoration of the State's architectural heritage, the amount of which was passed on to the National Lottery in 2020. The accounting documents shall be forwarded to the Court of Auditors in the framework of regular consultations on the audit work of the accounts. Article 2 of the Royal Decree determining the distribution plan for the grants of the National Lottery provides that the grants of category c are payable on presentation of paid invoices. The Regie provides the National Lottery with an annual invoice for the amount of the invoices it pays. The amount for which it did not have an invoice was logically not yet invoiced to the National Lottery either. Each year, a KB is first published laying down the provisional distribution plan for the grants of the National Lottery. At the end of the year, the final distribution plan will then be published in a Royal Decree. For example, the provisional allocation plan for 2020 was announced in a Royal Decree of 16 July 2020, published on 10 August 2020. The final distribution plan was established in a Royal Decree dated 31 March 2021, published on 2 April 2021. In these KB's, the subsidy for the Regie is always included. For the grants of 2019, the Government of the Buildings has delivered the National Lottery with an invoice containing accounts. An electronic version of the documents was sent on 24 November 2020. The accounting documents for the financial year 2020 were also delivered to the National Lottery. The Court of Auditors claims that the Regie is entitled to the full amount of the grant, but the Regie considers that it can only claim the grant on the basis of due invoices which it can submit and which meet the criteria for claiming the grant. Consultations will be held with the State Secretary in charge of the National Lottery and the National Lottery to optimise the administrative and accounting processing of the National Lottery grant to the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u40	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for this answer and all the previous answers. These were all technical questions, aimed at the accounting and administration of the Buildings Regie, which result from the report of the Court of Auditors that we received recently. It seems to me that the verdict for the Government of the Buildings is pretty harsh. I would therefore like to hear you say that you are working hard to correct this situation. New accounting software was put into use at the beginning of this year. That was necessary, because until then there was almost medieval and very archaic work. I'm curious about evolution. I also put forward other written questions on this subject, including in order to get a closer look at the apparently difficult situation regarding personnel policy. Those questions have not been answered. So we're gonna keep following it. The whole looks quite pain-licking and amateurish at the moment, but the Flemish Interest is eagerly looking forward to the way in which you will put your house in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u41	Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament, you are asking for the work to be carried out in order to adapt the ten burning sites of the Royal Domain of Laeken and the connection of the Royal Domain to the heating network of the combustion plant of Lower Over-Heembeek. The work for the installation of the network took place at the Royal Domain between January and June 2020. Over a distance of two kilometers, slots were dug to build the 4,500 meter pipes of the heating grid and thus connect the heating sites of the Royal Domain to the incinerator. The Government of the Buildings was responsible for the adaptation of the combustion sites and their hydraulic connection to the heat exchangers, while Brussels-Energy was responsible for the installation of the heat grid and the installation of the heat exchangers. From June 2020 the rest of the installation works for the heat grid took place outside the Royal Domain under the Van Praetbrug and the Vilvoordsesteenweg. In early 2021, a series of tests and connections were carried out before the network was put into operation. The new grid will thus be connected directly to the combustion plant of Lower Over Heembeek and will recover part of its residual heat and thus heat the buildings of the Royal Domain of Laeken, including the royal greenhouses. This project will reduce CO2 emissions from the Royal Domain of Laeken by around 2,300 tonnes per year and should cover almost all the heating needs of the domain. The cost of the preparatory work shall be EUR 242 000, broken down as follows: 50% to be borne by the Government of the Buildings and 50% to be borne by the Royal Gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u43	"Mr. Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u44	Thank you for your question, Congressman. The budgets related to urgent safeguard and restoration work are well planned in the investment plan, and a study office has been working with us on the Chinese pavilion for several years now. However, before additional budgets are committed, the future function of these buildings should be clearly identified. On this point, I started a discussion with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, Thomas Dermine. In the current context, museum functions tend to be grouped on the same site. Both the Japanese tower and the Chinese pavilion are important witnesses to our history, but should their functions be museum? We are therefore trying, together with Mr. Dermine, to identify the functions that will make it possible to make the access of these buildings to the public as soon as possible. In this context, a public-private partnership is not excluded. Finally, in order to assess the stakes surrounding these buildings, I have recently been making a visit on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u45	Thank you, Secretary of State. My view is that these institutions must remain museum, and I will continue to argue in this regard by following up on this issue with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Intérieure have placed the construction of the new police building in Eupen which will bring together the services of the Federal Police and those of the police zone Vesdre-Göhl in a single building, perfectly adapted to the needs, in priority 1 with regard to the forthcoming government discussions concerning the additional appropriations allocated to the Régie des Bâtiments for new urgent investments to be made. You are aware that the current federal police building is completely inadequate, being dangerous to officers due to fire safety problems. You are also aware that the patience of both the federal police officers and the Vesdre-Göhl area is being put to the test since they have been waiting for this file to progress for over 14 years, respectively. Although notices of strike have been regularly filed, the sense of state and duty has, in spite of everything, always been awarded to the agents of my region. However, you will easily understand that this dossier, which is the subject of a study within the competent departments of the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Intérieure, on the one hand, and the mayors and head of the zone, on the other, for more than three years now, can no longer be delayed. Needless to say, a formula that brings together federal and local police services is ultimately the least costly solution for public money. Moreover, the purchase of land in Eupen by the Régie des Bâtiments and the police zone Vesdre is imminent. Secretary of State, is the federal government aware of the absolute urgency of this matter? I assure you, I have already addressed a question to your colleague in charge of the Interior. Has this prioritization also been approved by the government? If not, when can we wait for priority to be defined? What budget will then be allocated to him? Will additional resources be provided? How high and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u47	Madam Member, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to stress that my colleague the Minister of the Interior and I are well aware of the urgency that you are referring to in this case and of the exasperation of police personnel who, like you, fulfil their duty with self-denial. However, I am compelled to ask you for a little more patience in view of the evolution of the case. First of all, as you mentioned, there is the forthcoming acquisition of the land that will host the future buildings and then the project's inclusion in the multi-year investment plan by 2024. Indeed, the multiannual investment plan provides for an amount of EUR 12 million. The only downside is the fact that this plan has still not been validated by the government, but I guarantee that I will do everything possible so that it can be approved as soon as possible, and I am confident that it will go very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u48	Thank you, Secretary of State, neither do I doubt your persuasion. It goes without saying that, as I have just supported it with arguments, we too look forward to, but I will be patient if you ask me, so that we can continue the preparations for this dossier, which, I repeat, is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u49	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Government of the Buildings plays an important role in our society. Of course, managing such a large real estate portfolio requires a lot of knowledge and skills. This must be translated into a sound staffing policy and the staffing framework must be constantly complemented by the best profiles. In the past, we have found that there were too few financial resources and a rather negative working environment, which made it difficult to supplement the frameworks, with all the consequences. Since 2007, we have seen a serious decrease in the workforce. There were 1,800 employees at work back then. How many are there today? Are there sufficient employees to perform all the tasks properly? Where's the big drop we've seen in the last ten years? Who's responsible? How many vacancies are open today? What profiles are we talking about? Does the Regie find enough candidates? How many 65-plussers does the Regie work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u50	Ms Vindevoghel, on 1 September 2021, had 843 staff. I would like to emphasise an important point. The number is independent of efficiency. It might be good to underline and emphasize the work of the Regie. Nothing is perfect, but the Buildings Management is meeting the demands of its customers as well as possible today. My strategy is to deal better with the available resources. However, the workload associated with the daily reality of the Regie must not be neglected. To meet this, the Regie is currently looking for 106 new profiles, mainly technical experts and engineers, but also administrative profiles. Unfortunately, these often technical profiles that the Regie needs are much sought after in the labour market and therefore difficult to find. However, the Regie remains attractive because it has already been able to recruit a hundred people this year, including in the bottlenecks professions, such as technical experts and engineers. As for your last question, there are currently 4 staff over 65 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u51	We have had discussions about this with your predecessor before. At that time, too, it was often said that competition with the private sector did not allow people to be found. The discussion is often also about a good working environment. It is important to people too, but there are also problems with that. If we want to attract people, we must also ensure that the working environment and working conditions are good. People can be found for those socially engaged jobs. Engineers, for example, could now be at the service of the people affected by the flood problem in Wallonia. I asked the question about the 65-plussers because the PVDA says that working longer than 65 years is too much for everyone, so also for these people. At 65 years, you've worked enough and you want to retire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u52	On October 1st, the exhibition will start in the United Arab Emirates under the name Expo 2020. It only ends in March 2022 and had been tested since the first day. The Government of the Buildings is responsible for the Belgian pavilion. Through corona, this world exhibition starts with a year delay. Last Thursday, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling, among other things, for the European Member States to boycott this world exhibition in order to send a strong signal that we do not agree with the repeated human rights violations in the United Arab Emirates. This resolution was adopted by almost all parties. It has been established that the Kafala system was used during the construction of the pavilions. Under that system, all unskilled migrant workers must have a sponsor, usually their employer. This employer is responsible for the host worker and the host workers themselves have hardly any rights. Workers were obliged to sign untranslated contracts, identification papers were seized, workers had to work up to 16 hours a day in unsafe conditions and were offered inhuman housing. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Have you been informed of the vote of the EU resolution calling for the World Exhibition to be boycotted by staying absent? Will Belgium respond to this question from the European Parliament? How did the construction of the Belgian pavilion go? Who finally built the pavilion and at what cost? What nationalities did the construction workers who worked on our construction site had under the umbrella of the Government of the Buildings? Under what working conditions did the construction workers have to work? Will you visit the Belgian pavilion in Dubai as Secretary of State? Will a member of the Belgian government visit the World Exhibition Expo 2020 in Dubai? What will happen to the Belgian pavilion after March 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u53	I am aware of the European resolution on the case of the human rights defender Ahmed Mansour in the United Arab Emirates and the invitation to the Member States not to participate in the world exhibition. My predecessor already answered a similar question you asked him. The public contract was awarded in 2019 to the consortium BEMOB-2020 led by the Belgian company BESIX for an amount of 7.9 million euros including VAT. This company has its own subsidiary in Dubai, Six Construct, which is responsible for carrying out and supervising the activities carried out by subcontractors. In addition, the successful tenderer shall, as indicated in the contract documents, "In addition to the obligations and rules applicable on the spot at the place where the contract is carried out, and in particular the rules, special regulations, guidelines, guidelines and guides issued by the organisers of the exhibition, the successful tenderer shall be obliged to comply with the rules and ensure that they are complied with by all persons who, at any stage and whatever their share or place in the supply chain, act as subcontractors, and by any person making staff available for the performance of the contract. All applicable obligations in the fields of environment, social and labour law are laid down in the international provisions contained in the various conventions of the international work organisation." The application of these provisions to the Belgian site is monitored by the BESIX Personnel Service and is regularly and strictly controlled by the organisers of Expo 2020. So there's a double check. Today the pavilion is ready. For me, a world exhibition is an opportunity to build bridges and improve humanity through innovation. At this stage, however, I have no plans to go, but the delegations will soon be presented by the Minister responsible for the Expo, Mr Dermagne, at his press conference. For the future of the pavilion, I invite you to address your question to Mr Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u54	I already asked the question, and you gave me about the same answer as you did back then. Is that an island within that entire world expo? Will Belgium succeed in getting working and wage conditions in order? I have a lot of questions about that. According to the European Commission, everything is not right there. I do not think that everything is going well there, if even the European Commission criticises it very much. Only BESIX would then ensure that working conditions are in order, while we all know that there is a great deal of social exploitation there and that it is not good for the people who work there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have all seen that the floods have hit the country very hard. Apparently, the government was not able to adequately protect the citizens. There were 41 fatalities and many houses collapsed. Twenty thousand people ran out of electricity and gas. The drinking water was contaminated. Fortunately, we also saw a great wave of solidarity. I myself have been to the affected areas a few times, to help the people there. It was heartwarming to see how much solidarity also went from Flanders to our colleagues in Wallonia. Mr Secretary of State, my questions to you are as follows. What damage has been caused to the buildings and the furniture of the Buildings Regie? What buildings have been damaged? For example, we are thinking of archives for the furniture. Have any archives been lost? How much damage is the flood of the Buildings Regie budgeted? Are the buildings of the Government of the Buildings adequately insured against water and other damage? What actions has the Government of the Buildings taken to help the affected population? For example, has the Regie made vacant buildings, rooms or offices available to citizens or aid organisations? If so, how many buildings are we talking about exactly? How many people has the government been able to temporarily relocate in this way? The Government of the Buildings has a lot of engineering knowledge on board, such as engineers. Were they also deployed after the floods, to provide help? If so, how did that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u56	Following the flooding and flooding in July 2021, the Buildings Regie took immediate action to measure the damage in the wetlands affected and to recover as soon as possible. Water damage was found in a few dozen buildings under the management of the Government of the Buildings. The cost of this is estimated at around EUR 500,000. The peace court in the municipality of Limbourg, rue Victor David, and the archive hall of Justice in Verviers, rue Xhavée, have suffered the most damage. Together with the National Archives and the FPS Justice, everything was done to save archives. The flooded and rescued archives are kept in freezers pending their restoration. The technical installations "electricity', HVAC "electricity' in the affected buildings were checked and re-activated where it was safe. Some installations will be repaired and replaced as soon as possible. In addition, the thorough cleaning of the affected buildings was also helped. The federal government mainly acts as its own insurer. In the case of repairs resulting from damage cases, the own donation is called upon. A list of empty houses and buildings in our real estate portfolio has been drawn up that can provide shelter and/or logistical support for the victims of the disaster and emergency services. These are, for example, service homes of former government guards who are vacant in anticipation of sale. Six vacant houses in the municipalities of Engis, Montegnée, Flémalle-Haute, Seraing and Herstal have been made available to the federal police for the affected federal and local policemen whose private residence is no longer habitable. The federal police and the Government of the Buildings are working together to set up these vacant houses as soon as possible. The departments of the Government of the Buildings are currently working together to provide the complete lists of available buildings in the provinces of Namur, Liège and Luxembourg. These lists will be transferred to the Walloon Region, which will be responsible for contacts with the governors concerned. In many homes, however, specific facilities are still needed before they can be made available to the affected inhabitants. The former courthouse in Eupen would soon be made available to the German-speaking Community to house their affected administrative services. The still usable, but written-off office furniture of the Regie der Bouwken (Regie of Buildings) tables, chairs, closets and cabinets will be immediately transferred to Fin Shop of the federal government (FOD) Finance, which will distribute the furniture across the affected provinces. Finally, the Government of the Buildings shares its expertise on prefabricated units with the Federal Support Cell in order to re-house the administrative services of some of the affected municipalities in container units in the short term. In addition, the technical staff of the Government of the Buildings has made a full effort in the affected regions to solve the problems caused by the floods in the buildings managed by the Regie.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, your very comprehensive answer has taught me a little bit about support. I myself believe that public authorities should be at the service of society, as was the case in part, if something serious happens that has a huge impact on the population. So I hope that people can be helped, because the problem has not yet been solved for a lot of people and I think that will take a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic570x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament 555559C by Mrs Ingels and Mr Verduyckt, and 55020827C by Mr Verduyckt, were postponed.
