ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the end of this debate, we have a brief arrangement of the work. Then we will look at what questions are still pending, so that we can draw up an agenda with the schedule after the Easter recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u2	Mr President, representatives of the people, this afternoon's session was scheduled for your question. It was expressed by Mr Wollants, but it is also contained in the resolution adopted by Parliament to discuss the parameters that will determine how much volume we will place in the first auction of the capacity mechanism, which will take place in October 2021. We have already come a long way, including the approval of the CRM law in Parliament. As a result, within the government we have made seven royal decrees implementing the law. Those KBs are currently at the Council of State for advice. Once they are adopted, we will also determine the volume. That ultimate exercise..................................................................................................................... We need to determine capacity as accurately as possible, not too much so we don't have to pay for what we don't need, but also not too little, so that we can guarantee the security of supply of the country for those companies that need every millisecond of electricity, for those companies that need 20 minutes of electricity in the longer term, but also for all families. After all, let us not forget that energy is the lifeblood of the economy, which will also be vital in the context of the economic recovery plans and the energy transition. Last week in this committee we talked about Elia's Summer Outlook, about the challenges of the system when it comes to flexibility. In that broader debate we are having this important exchange of views today. Together with you, I will discuss the following points. We begin with the background to the transparency obligation that we have adopted in the resolution. Point A4 states that the Chamber of Representatives shall be consulted on the determination of the parameters underlying the capacity purchased, and in particular that the Minister for Energy shall consult the Chamber on the optimal choice of security of supply and cost. So I will talk about volume but also about a number of other parameters that have to do with that. I'll tell you when the next slide can be shown. The CRM calendar is well known, but I would like to show you where we are today. We approved the law of 15 March 2021. The trajectory has been going on for much longer than we have approved the law. There is the reference scenario approved by previous ministers and there are the intermediate values that have been approved by myself and which will still be discussed at the present session. There are also three documents that are the subject of the current session, namely the calibration report of Elia of November 2020, the proposal and advice of the CREG that was drawn up and the opinion of Elia and my administration on the volume. All the documents mentioned were delivered to you. This leads to the decision being taken, which has been postponed until 30 April 2021 in accordance with the law. The current exchange means that we are holding the debate on volume about a month before the final decision, which gives us time for a substantive debate. What's next? That is the adoption of the operating rules, the contract and the very important pre-qualification on 15 June 2021, the assessment of the files and the auction on 1 October 2021. Before going into the substance of the matter, I would like to explain the course of the procedure. I shall come back to that because a number of elements have also appeared in the press. As you have read in the report and the two documents of the CREG, the CREG, when it made its proposal, expressed a number of reservations about the content of the Network Manager's report, in particular as to whether the information available to the CREG was sufficient for it to submit the necessary proposals and opinions. You have read with me that the CREG has made its proposal on the basis of the calculations made by Elijah, which are included in the Elia report of 13 November 2020. About two months later, on 18 and 21 January 2021, the CREG asked questions about this. They were answered by Elijah a week later. In its opinion, Elijah also indicated that additional consultations were proposed. Besides, if I am not mistaken, Elijah's answer is included in the opinion of the CREG. I also saw that the quantitative dates were included by Elijah on the same day. In the meantime, following the proposal of the CREG, we are about two months further and it has also been confirmed to me that no further questions have been asked to obtain further information and that no questions have been asked about a meeting. That leads me to conclude that there are no grounds for doubting the process on the one hand and the exchange of data on the other. Which brings me to the next slide on the demand curve. Here you can see a very general graph. Soon we will look at the values that are attached to this, but first we will look at the general theoretical graph, which represents the demand curve in a theoretical way and which is no different from the demand curve used in other countries. You can see the theoretical representation of the demand curve, with the three points A, B and C. The X-axis represents the capacity in megawatts, the Y-axis shows the price in euros per kilowatt. Let's start at point C at the bottom of the curve: point C shows the volume required in the auction, in other words, the volume needed to reach our confidence standard, which is set at three hours. A bit higher is the point B: that shows the volume at a certain expected price, namely the Net CONE, the net cost of the newcomer. I will explain this later. Point A, which is even higher, takes into account the correction factor X and indicates the maximum volume at the maximum price. That is actually about what we are prepared to pay, the volume that we are prepared to contract at the maximum price. Therefore, the volume above is not contracted. The values entered on this demand curve are proposed by the CREG, based on the calculations made by Elia. You know that there are two auctions: the T-4 takes place in October 2021 and the T-1 in 2024, one year before delivery. On this slide you can see that these demand curves look a bit different. We are now in a left-wing situation. Everything we're discussing today is about the T-4 auction. The difference is that in T-4 the correction factor, the flattened line between B and A, is taken into account. Where appropriate, less capacity will be purchased than necessary to achieve the reliability standard, i.e. if it exceeds that price. The reason for this is that there will be a T-1 auction afterwards, to which corrections can still be made. Of course, in T-1 this possibility is no longer available. The delivery takes place the year after. That is where the three points of capacity lie. On this slide you will see the information contained in the CREG proposal, on the basis of which a certain volume is obtained in the T-4 auction. I'll go over the different lines on this slide with you. On the one hand, you can see the point A, the maximum volume we auction at a maximum expected price, taking into account the correction factor. On the other hand we see the volume for points B and C. C is the volume we want to reach, B is the price we expect to reach. How do we determine the volume? First, we're going to look at the average electricity consumption in case of a shortage. On the second line you can see that there is a need for control power added. On the third line we find the average unsupplyed energy in a shortage, the so-called unexpected energy not served (ONES). We're gonna subtract it. So we accept that this capacity is not there, as we take into account the LOLE standard of 3 hours. That's our standard of reliability. We accept that there would be insufficient electricity for three hours in one year. We're gonna subtract the average non-supply of energy in case of a shortage. Then we are going to remove the ineligible capacity from the volume we are going to auction. For the ineligible capacity, there are a number of specific arguments. I'll get back to you on that. On the next line you will see that we reserve capacity for the T-1 auction, according to the law. This is the capacity that has on average less than 200 hours of rotation per year in order to subtract the total peak capacity. This capacity is then deducted. Then there is also a certain volume that we reserve in terms of foreign capacity. Normally, other countries could participate in a T-4 auction, but for the first year this is not yet on track, because European methodologies are still very recent in this respect. This volume is also transferred to the T-1 auction. So we arrive at point A at 8.3 gigawatt and for points B and C at 9.2 gigawatt. I worked out the split between the T-4 auction and the T-1 auction for readability. Questions have already been asked about this in this committee. About 73 % of the volume is for the T-4 auction; 27 % of the volume goes to the T-1 auction. That's the volume we need. Of course, a very large part of this is already existing capacity. Which brings me to the next slide, with two asterisks. The first concerns the ineligible capacity. This ineligible capacity is calculated at 1,088 megawatts. On the one hand, this is about capacity less than 1 megawatt. This is the threshold for participating in the CRM. On the other hand, it concerns the capacity excluded, as it already benefits from production aid. So that's about the cumulation scheme. There is a royal decision on this, one cannot benefit twice from support. The capacity of production aid may participate in the CRM, but subject to the waiver of this production aid. This will only be known after the pre-qualification procedure. Contrary to the calculation currently made, the volume decision on 30 April will include an assessment of this ineligible capacity. This may result in more capacity being considered as ineligible capacity and the volume determined on 30 April is lower. After the pre-qualification, a correction will then be made on the basis of the capacity that abandoned the production aid. Of course, this has no impact on the new capacity that can enter the auction because it concerns existing capacity, which can or cannot be reimbursed under the CRM, because it can or cannot be abandoned from existing production aid. So it's about capacity that's on the market because it's running. It concerns support capacity, that is wind and solar energy, but also cogeneration (CHP). There is a very large volume of CHP. It is available but is only reimbursed in so far as production aid is waived. So that is important, to estimate the amount of that capacity. As far as external capacity is concerned, for the sake of completeness, the Brexit Agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom provides that neither party is obliged to admit capacities from the other Member States to its capacity mechanism. At present, therefore, there is no agreement between the United Kingdom and Belgium and capacity from the United Kingdom is considered ineligible. This means that we do include this capacity in the determination of the volume, but that it is not contracted. It is possible that agreements will be concluded in the coming years and that the situation will change, but this is the situation now. Which brings me to the next slide, the demand curve for T-4, with the values glued in. Once again, you will see the theoretical demand curve I showed some slides ago, but now with the values contained in the CREG proposal. For the sake of clarity, the CREG has expressed a number of reservations. I'll get back to you on that. You will see the points A, B and C completed there. For point A, the correction factor has been applied. So that all the elements for everyone are on the radar properly, I have highlighted the foreign capacity there for a moment. When determining the demand curve, we take into account the maximum access capacity available for participation from abroad. A number of international agreements have yet to be reached. That participation is therefore practically postponed until the T-1 auction. Belgium is a highly interconnected country. We confirm this also in the choice of our CRM and in the choice of the volume in which we use these interconnections for our security of supply. Together, we must be aware that this is an important volume of capacity, which we assume will also be available in our neighbouring countries. One can use the image of a motorway: it is there, but we must of course be able to count on the lorries entering Belgium when we need it. Of course, there are hypotheses behind this with the necessary uncertainties that Belgium does not really have control over. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, there is additional uncertainty as the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the European Union, and the interconnection therefore depends on whether additional agreements are being concluded. On the next slide you will find the CREG's concerns about its own demand curve. The CREG's concerns are not new in themselves. We have already discussed a number of them in detail here, on the basis of specific questions, during the discussion of the law or during the most recent exchange of views with the follow-up committee. That is, firstly, about the use of climate years, that is to say more than 30 climate years. The CREG reiterates that this is not in line with the European methodology. I repeat what I said earlier. All the studies that have been carried out so far have been carried out on the basis of the pan-European climate database. Everyone worked that way. In the adequacy and flexibility study planned for June 2021, Belgium will already apply the new European methodology, while at European level it will not do so until much later. The European methodology leaves three options for taking climate years into account. Following ENTSO-E, Belgium opts for the first option, namely to make a prediction for the future, which is the most robust method. It will therefore be applied for the first time in the adequacy and flexibility study in June 2021. Secondly, the consumption curve. In his modelling, Elijah applies the usual practice. It is looking for the economic optimum use of available resources and thus for the maximization of social welfare. The CREG states that this approach is not dynamic and indicates that the bidding behaviour of demand management and storage operators will focus on maximizing profits and that Elia will use his technology at the time the price is highest. The CREG also indicates that this behaviour will change the consumption curve itself. Elia argues, on the other hand, that withholding demand and storage at certain times will cause problems and that other and more expensive resources will be used in those periods and at those times, and that there will therefore have to be a different techno-economic optimum. There is something to say for both approaches, but, although the angle of view is different between one and the other, they do lead in fine to similar effects that do not give me any substantial difference in determining the demand curve. Thirdly, the use of the reliability standard. This has been discussed here several times. As you know, a new standard of reliability is under way, in line with the new EU ESA methodology, which, of course, starts with the definition of the VOLL, then the definition of the CENE, after which the two values together lead to the establishment of the LOLE. Meanwhile, we're working with the LOLE that's in the law today. That is to say, we are not letting things go, but starting work. We know that there is no other European country where a new standard of reliability has been adopted at the moment in accordance with the methodology that only dates from 2 October 2020. I have said on several occasions that it is not plug & play on all points, but that it needs to be refined further. The current standard of reliability, the LOLE of 3 hours, is in line with the standard in neighbouring countries. The next point concerns the control power, border number 84 of the CREG proposal. Elijah's answer is on page 6 of the opinion. Except for a mistake on my part, the CREG proposes to increase the value of Elia from 155 megawatts. We are still examining that point. Then there is the interpretation of T-1. I am aware that the CREG has a different interpretation of the so-called 200-hour volume. A choice has already been made in the draft KB on the volume methodology, which has been notified to the European Commission. According to Elia's calculations, this amounts to a volume of 1.467 megawatts, which is already considerable, especially compared to other countries with a similar system. I will explain this later. In order to determine the volume, it was first necessary to determine the reference scenario. The choice was made to take into account a sensitivity of 1.7 gigawatt additional unavailability of the French nuclear park. The CREG says that the report of the French RTE is quite positive about the security of supply after 2023. Firstly, I would like to say that taking into account the 1.7 gigawatt additional unavailability reflects the base case of the French TSO itself. RTE recently drew up its new bilan prévisionnel and we read the warning from the French TSO that we should be very vigilant until 2024, given, among other things, the reduced availability of the French nuclear park. From 2024 to 2026 there is then a kind of transition phase, without being comfortable. It is only from 2026-2030 that the situation is expected to improve. Therefore, RTE's bilan prévisionnel does not make me decide that we should already make a more positive assumption in terms of sensitivity. In the next slide I'm talking about the reliability standard, which is legally set at 3 o'clock today. We are now working on a new standard, in line with the methodology. You can see here the LOLE values or reliability standards of the other Member States. Our current standard of reliability is in line with the standard applied in other European countries, with the exception of Ireland. Ireland has a LOLE of 8 hours. This is due to the fact that Ireland is an island, which is dependent on itself and can rely much less on connections with other countries. That explains the higher LOLE. The next slide shows the T-1 volume. A few slides ago you saw on the split of the T-4 compared to the T-1 that we reserve a fairly important volume for T-1. The CREG notes that even more volume should be reserved for T-1. That is why I have made the comparison here: what is involved in other countries with a similar system? The table shows the information from the European Commission's decisions for three other countries: the United Kingdom, Italy and Ireland. There you can see for the split between the two auctions, and especially for T-1, a reserved capacity of 1 to 5 %. Although the exact values in the Belgian system are not yet fixed, we can see that with the reserved capacity based on a volume of 200 hours, a significant part of the volume is already taken. Taking into account the foreign capacity, for which a part will be reserved, we easily come to values around 20 %. This is considerably higher than what is common in other countries. That is the choice we have made in our system. We have chosen to specifically reserve an important part of the volume, in particular demand control and storage, i.e. those capacities with less than 200 hours of rotation, for T-1. This contributes significantly to the fact that we will certainly not allow more thermal capacity than is strictly necessary in the context of the T-4 auction. On the next slide you can see how the CREG suggests in its proposal to make an additional reduction and transfer the volume to T-1 in T-4. The reasons for this are the reservations I have just mentioned. They have either already been answered, for example when it comes to the climate years, or, in the case of new comments, you will find an answer in the advice of the administration, of Elijah or of both. Moreover, as the CREG indicates, this is a rough estimate. But such a drastic reduction of 2,000 megawatts needs to be further substantiated. So far, a very elaborate methodological process has been followed and it seems difficult to justify reducing the volume by 2,000 megawatts on the basis of a rough estimate. That's wet fingering. We also risk undermining the principle of technology neutrality. All CRMs should be open under European rules to all types of capacity on the one hand and to new and existing capacity on the other. In addition to the existing reservation for T-1, which is already very large, another 2,000 megawatts transferred to T-1, there could be, bottomline, almost no new capacity in the T-4. Capacity with a longer lead time would therefore be unjustly excluded from the CRM. We can go one step further. If we added such a volume to the T-1 auction, that means we wouldn't contract more than 5 gigawatts up to one year before the year we needed it. In fact, that would almost amount to the non-replacement of 6 gigawatt nuclear capacity. That is not the policy the government has chosen. Nor has the government chosen to wait until we are almost there to see what will happen, but to take control of things and work on energy security. Those are the slides as far as the volume parameters are concerned. Which now brings me to the maximum price. As far as the maximum price is concerned, I have included the table of the AD Energy on slide 16. For me, that's a handy overview. As I said earlier, the maximum price is designed as the Net CONE or netcost of new entry minus the expected revenue multiplied by the correction factor 1.5. The best newcomer based on the recorded calculations and information is an OCGT. That amounts to a value of EUR 64 per kilowatt. As you recall, a resolution contains a value for the maximum price of EUR 75 per kilowatt. On the basis of the proposals and the subsequent opinions, we come to an amount of EUR 64 per kilowatt, while in our resolution we spoke of a value of EUR 75 per kilowatt. The CREG also has three comments, which you will see on the next slide. The first is the use of the median income. This is a discussion that we have already had here on the P50 and the expected revenue. We have a European methodology on this since 1 October 2020. As I have already said, this European methodology has not been developed up to the level at which we can just start using plug & play, but requires further refinement and alignment with the market players. That process is ongoing. Elia is working with the AD Energy but also with a professor of the ULB to further develop the new method, because they will be applied in the framework of the Adequacy and flexibility study, which we expect in June 2021. I have said several times that the government has made the choice to apply best practices as coherently as possible once the method is ready. Once the method of expected revenue is in place, we will consider the place where we can still apply it in the CRM for the study on security of supply. It concerns the derogation of the IPC, the IPC itself, but also the calculation of the Net CONE. Today we are working with median revenues, but we will switch to expected revenues once the method is ready, expected in June 2021. So here too, Belgium will go faster than many other countries, because at European level it will not be ready until later. However, there is no reason to wait if that is the better method, but we just need to take the right time to apply them properly. The second consideration concerns the choice of correction factor. The correction factor shall be applied to determine the maximum price, the maximum volume at the maximum price or the upper point on the curve. That factor is, of course, intended to cope with various uncertainties that arise during the calibration of the Net CONE. These uncertainties are substantial and, in this respect, a correction factor of 1.5 seems to be a reasonable approach, which is also consistent with the approach of the other European countries. The third comment on the maximum price concerns the choice of scenarios. There the CREG asked questions about the calculation of the marginal interest rates, not for 2025, but for the years 2028 and 2040. That's what Elijah answered in his advice on page 11. In any case, it is important to keep the following in mind. With the current methodology, at least there seems to be no exaggeration of the global maximum price. In the resolution we set it at EUR 75 per kilowatt. When we look at the other European countries with CRMs, we see that the global maximum price is at least EUR 75 per kilowatt, in Italy, and often substantially higher. At present, we are looking at a value of EUR 64 per kilowatt. The CREG proposes to reduce this further, but we are already quite low. Then I have some slides on the other parameters. These are not covered by the transparency obligation that we have included in the resolution, but I think it would be useful to consider this because questions have already been raised here about the IPC and the derating factors. The proposal of these paramaters was made by Elia in the November calibration report. The CREG delivered an opinion on this subject on 1 February. As a reminder, the IPC is the standard that applies to all capacities that are not eligible for a long-term contract, i.e. capacities that do not have or do not have sufficient eligible CAPEX. That always applies anyway. The European Commission indicated in the September opening decision that this is a problem for those players who would be prevented from offering their real missing money. The European Commission has indicated to us in the context of the State aid investigation that it must always be possible for a player to offer against the real missing money. That is why a derogation has been developed, in which we have remained silent for a long time in the context of the discussion of the law. For the value of the IPC, Elia has included two options in the proposal, on the one hand, 21,4 and 28,3 euro. This depends on the expectations of the revenue side: medium or low. The CREG has given an opinion on these values, in particular to opt for €21.4. This value will be fixed on 30 April, after consultation with the Council of Ministers. I am in favour of excluding the value of EUR 28.3 in advance. Why? A derogation is provided for so that parties who have a higher missing money are not excluded. Parties who believe they have a higher missing money may apply for a derogation. Should there also be parties that unjustly do not offer on the basis of their missing money but higher, this will limit the risk that we pay unnecessarily. When we spoke to the follow-up committee, this was one of the points raised. We are in the next situation. The auction comes one year before the year in which delivery is made; capacities are always required to reserve a large amount of capacity for that auction, as I have already mentioned countless times, which can lead to strategic bidding behavior. It is therefore desirable that this IPC should not be too high. This brings me to another subject in which I would like to dwell, namely the reduction factors. All technologies can participate in the CRM, as it is technology neutral, but of course not all technologies contribute equally to the adequacy of the system. Windmills, solar panels, thermal power stations, storage and demand control all have different levels of availability. They depend on different elements, such as weather conditions and technical constraints and problems. In order to create a level playing field for the different technologies, the CRM works with a reduction factor per technology category. These percentages are always lower than or equal to 100 % of the nominal reference power. This is therefore a statistical assessment of actual availability at a time of scarcity. This calculation factor indicates the availability of the technology concerned for each category at times of scarcity. These reduction factors shall be determined for each auction according to a method described in the Royal Decree containing the volume. Using simulations, the scarcity moments are recorded. These are the hours when consumption in the Belgian control zone cannot be covered, the energy not served (ENS) or the LOLE of 3 hours, the maximum duration that we consider acceptable for our country to have no electricity. In practice, the shutdown plan may need to be activated at such times. For these simulations, the programmes that are also used to carry out national and European toxicity assessments are used. The methodology aims to achieve the reliability standard by looking at the contribution of each technology at times of scarcity. The entire CRM calibration method is built around a global optimum that ensures that the sum of reduced capacities is sufficient to achieve the desired reliability standard. For thermal installations the historical percentages of forced outage are used. They are very high, between 90% and 96%. For all other technologies, the reduction factors are based on modelling results. The reduction factors per category are determined by dividing the expected average contribution to scarcity moments by the total expected capacity in that category. The reduction factors of weather-dependent technologies range from 4% for solar panels to 15% for offshore wind. At a time of scarcity, we expect to be able to count on offshore winds for 15%. Then we'll get the next slide. I did this because I would like to have a debate on this. It's about the derating factors for demand management and storage. Demand management is divided into service levels, the SLAs. Those are similarities between those who are committed to what they are. They depend on the duration that they can be activated. Their reduction factor goes from 11 % for 1 hour to 65 % for 8 hours and even up to 100 % if they could be activated indefinitely. The category of technologies with limited energy consumption is then related to large battery projects, which have received a reduction factor of 11 %. The pump storage, such as the water basins of Coo and Plate Taille, has received a reduction factor of 19%. So that's low. Those three categories have low reduction factors. Then, of course, the question arises as to why they are so low. We'll see that on the next slide. They actually owe that to themselves, or at least to the hoped-for success of those technologies. If there is little storage and little demand management in the system because there is sufficient thermal capacity, they will only be addressed occasionally. They are then on average widely available at times of scarcity. It's only at those moments that they're actually needed. For example, demand control that can be activated for an hour at a two-hour time of scarcity, then gets a reduction factor of 50 %. We're going to the next slide. If we rely more often on demand management and have only limited capacity available in the system, then demand management and storage will also be used at times other than moments of scarcity. If that were not the case, there would be exactly a shortage at that time. But since one can consider demand control or storage capacity of 1 hour as a pattern that one has then missed, they may not be there anymore at the time of scarcity themselves. Therefore, this greatly reduces their average availability at times of scarcity. The next slide is about using storage. It has the advantage that electricity can be delivered once the electricity price is higher than the price at which it was charged, depending on the efficiency with which it is charged. For batteries, efficiency is around 90%, rather around 75% for pump storage. Simulations show that they will also be used more quickly at times other than those of scarcity. Depending on the electricity price afterwards and the thermal capacity, batteries will also recharge faster than, for example, pumped storage. But those figures, especially for pump storage, are significantly lower than in other countries with CRMs. That was a question from colleague Ben Accour. In the UK and France, we see that pump storage has received other derating factors. This can be explained by the fact that Belgium already has the highest share of demand management and storage compared to those countries and will also increase according to the CRM reference scenario, from 30% in 2025 in Belgium versus less than 10% in France, England or Ireland. Over the past decade, Belgium has created an attractive environment for the development of so-called energy-limited technologies, for example through the possibility of participating in support services or through transfer or energy. Therefore, Belgium today has a relatively high share of these technologies in its system, reinforced by the presence of a large share of pump storage potential, i.e. about 1.3 gigawatts compared to the peak demand around 13 gigawatts. This trend will increase further as additional storage and demand response in the system will be added by 2025. This would mean that Belgium will achieve a penetration of 30% of these technologies. This is three to four times higher than in other countries with CRMs. Some will say that it is perfect foresight, but that is based on the scenarios in the National Energy and Climate Plan, among others. We're not building our CRM in the air. We build our CRM based on scenarios that have also been provided by the Regions. Energy isn't just a federal authority's jurisdiction. The regions also have important powers. Those scenarios, these developments, are known. Some will argue that there is also the reality of our pump storage. That's right. These technologies contribute to security of supply in times of scarcity and also contribute to flexibility. Last week we were talking here about the incompressibility, so the non-competence, following among other things the Summer Outlook. Just the unavailability of the Coo plant ensures that there is little possibility to mitigate. In that situation, therefore, we have to choose between perfect fortune and efficiency, or maximize prosperity and profit. I am aware that I have been thinking about this for a long time, but it really is a very specific element in our system. I certainly wanted to include that in this exercise in order to know your views and comments on it. Finally, I come to the reference price and the exercise price. The payback obligation is about us avoiding excess profits in the system. When the reference price exceeds the exercise price, the payback obligation enters into force. The reference price is the segment of the daily market of a NEMO, active in Belgium for the Belgian control zone. There's no discussion about that. Then it is still important to determine the exercise price. In Elia's proposal, that is EUR 300/MWh and in the proposal of the CREG EUR 245/MWh. In conclusion, I propose to work on the basis of the CREG proposal in terms of volumes, but without taking into account the additional reduction of 2,000 megawatts. Of course, the final decision has not yet been taken. It will be taken after the conciliation in Parliament, but also after the relevant KB on volume and parameters has been adopted and after consultation in the Council of Ministers. We have included checks-and-balances in the CRM Bill, about who can decide what and when. As regards the maximum price, I can confirm that I am not asking for an increase in the value of EUR 75, which is included in the resolution. That would have been a bit tricky, but because I have shown the high maximum prices abroad, there could be confusion. In any case, I will not ask to exceed EUR 75, but the final decision will be taken after this consultation, after the adoption of the relevant KB and after the consultation in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your introduction and, above all, thank you for giving us the floor again. 'Cause that's how fast it is. Let me not call it a coup attempt, but it looks a bit like it. All madness on a stick, now we can have the debate. I will follow the order in which Members of this House have put questions about this. Mr Wollants has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your statement. We do need to look at a number of issues in the process. As the CREG itself stated in this committee, some of the reports have been available for some time. If I am not mistaken, the CREG referred to the fact that the opinion and the draft proposal were forwarded on 28 January and 2 February, but it took a long time before it was forwarded to the committee members. We finally got documents dated 28 January last week. Why did that take so long to get those documents to us? The same applies to the report on which I have put an oral question to you: why is it taking so long? I can understand that you would like to take a few weeks to look into matters more closely, but on certain documents we had clearly stated in the resolution that they should be delivered to Parliament when the Minister receives them. At that point, I would have liked a word of clarification. How is it possible that that's gonna take so long? Of course, we have all been going through things. Of course, it would have been interesting for some of the debates we have had over the last two months if we had had some of the information in advance. I would like to know how that has been done. A second point, you have pointed out how this fits into the entire journey. You have not said much about the discussions with the European Commission today. That was one of my questions, too. What is the exact state of affairs there? How do we proceed with that? In the meantime, do you feel that this is heading in the right direction? When was the last time you discussed this? For us, it is a little unclear how this process continues. It is particularly important within the whole framework to know when and how this is going to go on, because if it does not, this meeting may have been a measure of nothing. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The discussion between Elijah and the CREG has been going on for a long time. In a number of areas one does not get through the same door. I am somewhat surprised that the opinion of the CREG clearly states that it has not been able to do its job sufficiently because of insufficient information. The annex refers to the so-called or real reply of Elijah and the like. I am surprised that no further steps have been taken. Did you yourself, as Minister, ask the CREG whether they have in the meantime received sufficient information to prevent them from having to amend their advice? I can imagine that on the basis of a number of conversations they may have come to a different understanding and, on that basis, have updated what they had delivered, based on incomplete information. I would like to hear from you how it works. You then gave the volumes. The figure is 73 % in T-4 and 27 % in T-1. You briefly referred to the capacity in the United Kingdom. What was not entirely clear to me is how it is that the UK's capacity, which cannot be auctioned to the UK because of the situation you outlined, appears to be in the T-1 auction. The situation is then that on the one hand we have 200 hours, and on the other hand we have the sum of all foreign capacities, including those of the United Kingdom, which you say is not eligible, while still being auctioned in T-1. Can you explain this bizarre course of things a little bit more? Is that T-1 auction one and indivisible? In other words, at the time of the auction, does the distinction that we now see between 200 hours on the one hand and foreign capacity on the other? Or will that distinction remain? I assume that this is a global pot which is now believed to come from abroad, but that does not necessarily have to be the case in the auction itself. Capacity not eligible shall also be taken into account. In the field of cumulation, that is clear. However, for the capacity below the threshold, it is less clear to me. There is a possibility that the capacity remaining below the threshold of 1 megawatt may be aggregated. This means that the estimation of the size of the capacity that is not eligible could be variable. Can you explain exactly how that happened and how we should deal with it? As far as the median income is concerned, please refer to the expected income, as quoted by the CREG. You say that you will apply that methodology to it as soon as possible. We are, of course, in danger of going into a situation where we will only be able to apply the expected revenue for the second year of delivery, not for the first year of delivery. That is important, because of course these revenues will play a part in determining the Net CONE, which in turn determines what the global price limit will be. Will that not then give a distorted picture, because today there will be less revenue than there will be according to the new methodology, so that the maximum price for the first year of delivery may be higher than it should actually be? Then, of course, we will get a difference between the different auctions. This will ensure that bids are launched at the first auction which will actually prove to be higher than necessary if we are to accurately estimate the revenue. You said that the auctions abroad indicate that our price limit is not excessive, but of course it depends on how it was created. In Ireland, for example, there was a large difference between the global price limits over the years: it also fluctuated at some point around EUR 70 per kilowatt, but is now much higher. However, I can imagine that you can confirm that, if necessary, the fact that Ireland is on an island can make a big difference. We have to look at that. As far as the intermediate price limit is concerned, you have indicated that you do not consider the 28 euros in any way. Both Elia and the CREG talk about €21.4. With regard to that intermediate price limit, the resolution asked the government to do the following. If it turns out that it is inevitable to stay at EUR 20, or if the overall cost of the system would be increased, this must be demonstrated to Parliament. You accepted that passage for the 75 euros. You did not go into that passage for the EUR 20. Will you not use the EUR 21.4 in any case, but will you use the EUR 20? Do you intend later this afternoon to show that it is inevitable to go to 21,4 or will you come back for that? It seems important to me that you can demonstrate that. You should certainly be able to obtain the necessary elements from this derogation procedure in order to be able to remain at the EUR 20. At that time, of course, it was written about that aspect of inevitability, when, of course, the derogation was not there yet. The discussion with the European Commission had not yet reached that stage. That's why we have to take that element with us. Then I come to the derating for the different categories, such as pumped storage, market response and so on. You say that the penetration of the pumped storage results in the effect that it has been used in some cases before the scarcity moment occurs, which makes it less interesting. To what extent could a strategic use be made there? In other words, is the operator of such storage capacity, batteries, pumped storage or demand response, not inclined to program it at the moment that the strongest signal comes from the market, so when he can earn the most from it? This could mean that the scarcity peaks and valleys we have seen on the graphs are more'resources', which could make the usability of, for example, the pumped storage more likely to be, percentagely, than that which is now being taken into account. I now have the impression that it is assumed that it will be used in the event of scarcity, so that it can no longer be used in the event of a subsequent shortage peak. I believe that this can be taken into account in the programming process. That could be an element to say that those 11 % on the one hand and that whole set of percentages on the other hand will be used differently than those taken into account. I have the impression that one is thinking more according to a classic model, and perhaps not entirely according to the market model, which I expect intelligent players who are working on the market response can start working on it. That seems to me to be a possibility. When it comes to the general market response, the question is to what extent the current categories cover everything. We are now talking about 1, 2, 4, 6 or 8 hours. But I can imagine that some things will last more than 8 hours, which at that time could have an effect on the reduction factor, and so on what can be avoided in the market, and that sort of thing more. I think we should consider how best to use this. At the same time, it is important that we also give a certain incentive through the CRM to develop that kind of technology. We'll do that part of the time in the 200 hours. But I think there's a little more there. As far as the payback obligation is concerned, we have already had quite a few different figures. There was talk at some point about EUR 350. It was then said that the amount had to be increased towards EUR 500. Now we are somewhere between 230 euros and 300 euros. To what extent does that have an impact on bidding behaviour for you? Does this also have an impact on the maximum price applied, or is it not? In the past, PWC has indicated that it would be and that there is a relationship somewhere. The method we use to calculate the maximum price has no element of exercise price, I think. So there's no link in that. Could you give us a little more explanation to see how that should be done, so that we can look at that as well? I kept the 2,000 megawatts for the last. It remains the two sides of the story. On the one hand, Elijah is looking for a level of certainty. On the other hand, the CREG wants to look at things more dynamically, but this may lead to uncertainty throughout the story. I must admit that it is very difficult to set the right lines here in Parliament. I believe that everyone here in the Chamber would prefer to pay as little capacity as possible, as much capacity as is needed. That's a tough point in the whole story. We are still sitting there with a grid operator and a regulator who thinks very differently. That doesn't really contribute to the comfort position in that area. You're saying you're rejecting the 2,000 megawatts. I can see why you're doing that. Does that mean that you're all on Elia's line as far as the volume is concerned? After all, a shift of 2,000 megawatts may be short, but there is something to say for a smaller share. Now it seems to be a black and white story by Elijah to the CREG, but it is possible to achieve a better situation by shifting several hundred megawatts. Has that option been reviewed? Or should we really choose one of the two calculations? I also had a short question about offshore, which was added to it. I assume you can give me an answer to that. The most important thing for me is that you will take an initiative in good time. The CREG clearly indicated that if we want to avoid EUR 100 million on invoices, we need to take a legal initiative in this area. In the past, you have always stated that you want to draw up a proposal on energy standards and degressivity between September and November. That seems to me extremely close to the end of the year. As soon as there is even the slightest discussion about it, I'm afraid it won't get around. Your proposal must first be submitted to the Council of State and then to Parliament. The 100 million must have been budgeted somehow. That is why it seems strange to me to have that discussion in November. In that case, we in Parliament are already in the process of discussing the budget. Isn't it appropriate to come forward with a proposal before the summer? The CREG already provides input, both in terms of the amount of 100 million and in terms of degressivity. Can you also tell us, in addition to what I said earlier, when you have received the CREG's first report on this matter? In the corridors I thought I heard that it was actually already available in November. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u5	Mr President, Minister, thank you for a very clear statement. Despite the nice weather outside it is a very interesting committee meeting. Both your speech and Mr Wollants' questions give me a quick insight into the very technical subject matter. I'll try to get a few things straight. I am doing this in particular, firstly, to make it clear what is important to us, but secondly, to make sure that I have understood things correctly. Ultimately, the aim of our energy policy is to turn to renewable energy sources. We all agree on that. It fits into a global climate plan with clear ambitions. We know that this will require major investments in renewable energy, in new developments such as hydrogen applications, and in investments in interconnections with countries with renewable energy surpluses. We therefore need a very stable investment environment. It is important to me that we look at where the CRM fits into that story. It is quite clear that it is about security of supply. I have just said to you that the debate here in committee sometimes sounds incredibly technical. I can imagine that people who log in for the first time might turn to abbreviations such as T-4 auction, T-1 auction and that's more. We must not forget that this is very important for the ordinary man and woman in the street. It's anything but a far-from-their-bed show. For example, the uncertainty in the winter of 2016, 2017 and 2018 caused unrest. As a representative of the people, I am very pleased that the government is working on a reserve system and on some kind of insurance in the form of the CRM. A few weeks ago, we passed a law on this subject, which ensures that we move forward. We put energy into making plans and finding solutions. Today, you are also ensuring transparency. I think it is good that Parliament should continue to draw attention to this transparency. The way in which you have explained this makes it clear to me as a representative of the people who will take part in this process which parameters are chosen to determine volume and price. I'm glad there's transparency. For our group, an affordable energy bill is also an important point of attention. The government agreement also included that an affordable energy bill is important. Everything that has been said here today gives me the assurance that this is being done. That is perhaps the most important thing in the speech you have made today. It has also become clear to me today that this CRM system also provides incentives to meet the renewable energy targets. In order to green our energy system and to keep it available and affordable, I believe that cooperation between the federal level and the regional levels will be necessary. After all, the more renewable energy is rolled out throughout our country, the less alternatives and the less flexibility the CRM will need. I have a very important question for you, Madam Secretary. You referred to this at the end of your speech. I assume that your calculations are based on the National Energy and Climate Plan and that the contributions of the regions are essential in these calculations. Is that right? Is that what you're assuming in your calculations? Are you also assuming that these regions achieve their objectives? I asked a question this morning to our federal climate minister on the climate issue, saying in my reply that cooperation is a key word in the plans we have when it comes to our climate ambitions. Of course, our energy policy is a very important factor, as well. That is why the key to cooperation lies with me. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for your clear statement. I'm definitely gonna go over everything again to make sure I'm all along. I will also listen carefully to the answers to colleagues' questions in a moment, so that I can be even more involved in this CRM story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u6	Mr President, Minister, today's way of working leads me to shorten my question, which was initially quite extensive. Some of my colleagues might like that. Madam Minister, you have answered not only a number of oral questions tabled in writing, but also the opinion of the CREG, the draft proposal of the CREG and the opinions of Elia and even the AD Energy, which we have not mentioned here. First of all, I want to talk about transparency, and then I am indeed in the waters of Mr Warmoes, who caused some fuss in De Standaard. I'll take you back to February 9th. I was at home in winter conditions. You said the following in connection with the CRM follow-up committee, the meeting of which was strongly dominated by the Haulology study and the debate on it. You confirmed that there would still be opinions from Elia and AD Energy on the documents of the CREG of 28 January and 2 February 2021. You said at that meeting that you had received those documents, but that you were still studying them. I quote from a draft report on the opinions of Elia and AD Energy which, in accordance with the preliminary draft royal decree, had to be delivered by 1 March: "Once she has received those opinions, the Minister will take a decision in the Council of Ministers. She proposed that Parliament be consulted in the meantime." With regard to the CREG proposal on parameters on the quantity of capacity to be purchased, I also note that it concerns a draft proposal. You've already had an audience on the fraternity between the CREG and Elijah. The CREG says, I quote: "Without obtaining the necessary additional information to evaluate the information contained in the network manager's report, the CREG cannot exercise its power of proposal and cannot therefore convert the current draft proposal into a formal proposal." I'm assuming this is still the situation today, I don't have any other documents. Then I come to the advice of AD Energy and of Elia. Last Friday, a few days ago, we got these pieces in our mailbox, for which we thanked. That's actually exactly a month later than the date they were handed over to you. These documents state the date of 26 February. The crazy thing is that Elia's opinion on the CREG's draft proposal on the parameters for determining the quantity of capacity to be purchased for T-4 actually opens with the comment of the CREG, of course from their proposal of one month earlier, that the preliminary draft of KB on volume methodology can still be changed. What are we doing here? It may be a bit difficult to follow the chronology, but in the meantime we have had a federal ministerial council on 12 March, on which the QB on volume methodology was accepted, I thought. I will switch to De Standaard last week and to Mr Warmoes' concerns. I must say that I share his concerns, on second thought. The CREG's opinions or proposals of 28 January 2021 and 2 February 2021 were indeed published on the CREG website, which is correct. So we didn't need your transmission last Friday for the CREG documents anymore. However, the question is when they were published. After 9 February, I consulted the website of the CREG very regularly, and I never saw it there. Unless I'm starting to see ghosts. Mr Warmoes spoke in the article in De Standaard of 23 March about 'end last week'. It can therefore be no different than Friday 19 March, one week after the Federal Council of Ministers of 12 March 2021. The CREG therefore published its draft proposal and its opinion after the Federal Council of Ministers. That is very peculiar, because it says in its opinion, in addition to a lot of criticism of the methodology, that the methodology can still be changed. We, the Members of Parliament, did not get anything in the interim period. So we are constantly behind the facts. As far as transparency is concerned, I must therefore support my colleague in the PVDA. You will undoubtedly say later that it is up to the committee to insist. Didn't we? I myself left the work to Mr Wollants because I thought that as co-author of the resolution and as an established value in this committee, he could just add a little more proverbial weight to the scale. He's been pushing me for the last few weeks. During the speeches on the CRM law in this committee at the beginning of this month, transparency was also addressed. In fact, you have repeated yourself that we should be meeting around mid-March, but it has now become 30 March. I find that all very strange. Next, I would like to comment on the content of the apparently persistent differences between the regulator and the network operator. Because of the way you work today, because you've already made your choices and you've already given your replies, we can't help but repeat ourselves a little bit. Of course, you can list some comments, objections from the CREG on a PowerPoint, but of course it is still different when you quote literally from the texts of the CREG. There are a number of qualifications that are quite clear and directional and perhaps offer the benefit of clarity over your very technical answers that underpin your choices. The CREG considers the network operator's report of 13 November to be insufficient, with a view to making a proposal by the regulator. The Network Manager's report shall contain only the highest necessary figures in order to produce a single proposal of demand curve. This ensures that the CREG is pushed in one direction and cannot therefore make an independent proposal. She is forced to make a proposal that is in fact determined by Elijah. I'm not saying that, the CREG says that. It is a pity that the CREG in its opinion on the auction parameters, i.e. the document of 2 February, on page 21, says in black and white that it simply does not like the methodology in the preliminary draft KB volume methodology. I quote: "That must be examined whether it is appropriate and reasonable. An adjustment should not be excluded." It is strange that we did not hear anything about this during the discussion with the follow-up committee on 9 February. Of course, we did not have the texts. Then there is the criticism of the CREG of the climate years used, the calibration of the reference scenario, the reduction factors per technology, the non-correct simulation of the behaviour of energy players with energy-limited technologies, etc. Perhaps to the relief of my fellow Members, I am not going to go into that in detail anymore. Why not? Because earlier, Madam Secretary, you had very technical reasons for all your choices for 45 minutes to one hour. It may be a bit short, but I have the feeling that you are largely taking over the reply of the network manager on 26 February to the criticism of the CREG. I admit that this discussion has been going on for six months to ten months. It doesn't make any sense to repeat the whole story 'winter iscoming'. That is one of Mr Warmoes' specialities, by the way. Maybe he'll want to do it again sometime. I know that you said in January that ACER methodology only dates from 2 October 2020. The ENTSO-E has proposed a roadmap and it will be unfolded in the following years, until even in 2025. I already know your answer, and that is an answer to the CREG on the issue of methodology. My translation of the case is that it seems as if there is still a fight going on between the CREG and Elijah on the discrimination of technologies. I would like to comment on the CREG's proposal to carry 2,000 megawatts over. According to Elia, introducing a T-1 volume that is unreasonably high means that certain technologies are excluded and that even in T-4 no new capacity is contracted. According to Elia, following the CREG in their increase in volume for the T-1 would even create a security of supply risk and higher total costs. Mr Wollants said:I rest my case. But it's not unimportant. Elia concludes that the CREG's proposals on the volume parameters and the re-execution of simulations are not to be followed. To sum up politically, you have said that you want to take over the issue and opt for energy security, a bit of a free reading of Elijah's position, and as far as the CREG is concerned, not to wait until the last. Then there is the issue of the offshore payment, the regularisation of some EUR 100 million for next year, which represents the shortage of revenue received as a result of the decline in 2020. Mr Wollants has already mentioned this. Madam Minister, this EUR 100 million is only a first challenge. In its proposal of 28 January, the CREG proposes that the total cost of offshore surcharge should be borne by the federal level by 2025 at the latest. I assume, and I have to contradict Mr Wollants, that the document from the CREG of 28 January, which has been on the website for a long time, is the updated study you have already discussed during various answers to oral questions. So I expect you to take this into account in your holistic approach to the whole issue of the threat of additional costs for the electricity bill that, like your policy paper, the resolution and the government agreement, should be averted and that you are working on it. I look forward to that. That brings me to my last point, my second oral question. I suppose I can explain it very briefly here. The CRM is also about - new - gas plants. As you know, there is always a great deal of press coverage of regional conditions in these environmental permits. You said that the Federal Relance Plan provides EUR 50 million for a project proposal on the development and integration of new technologies to reduce CO2 emissions from new gas-fired power plants. I know that Belgium has submitted 130 percent of its proposals and that the European Commission has already made an initial assessment of them. There is an exercise in the government's lap to carry out the full federal list of investments, drawing on national budget resources. Has the European Commission commented on the project on the development and integration of new technologies to reduce CO2 emissions from gas plants? Could you give us some more information on the state of play on this matter? How do you view and assess the current state of affairs and reporting on the imposed regional conditions for the environmental permits of some new gas plants in the light of the T-4 auction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u7	Mr President, I will keep it to the point, unlike previous colleagues, such as Mr Ravyts, who spoke very extensively about transparency. I think it is important to talk about the content. Madam Minister, it is a good thing that the debate is taking place here, because we should not be talking about the pot. There is, however, some criticism in the CREG note. You clearly explain how you look at that, but that does not mean that I feel completely comfortable with it. After all, there are several warnings in the note. As Mr Buyst says, it is generally about rather technical discussions and so it is sometimes difficult to estimate the extent to which the warnings will have an impact, but there are some. I'm gonna go over them for a little while. I understand your explanation of the climate years and the fact that Elijah says that ACER's implementing decisions are not yet in place today, but it remains for a piece of acid testing, just because it concerns the climate warming aspect and also because everyone knows that the T-4 auction might be the first auction auction. The impact of the methodology of the first auction on the second auction will therefore be considerable. The discussion about the consumption curve and the cost assessment is not new either. This is the subject of heavy words in the CREG memo. I read the word 'unacceptable', which I find rather firm. The third point concerns the standard of reliability. We know that we do nothing wrong if we stick to the current standard of reliability. However, strategic choices could be made. After all, we know that there may be a relaxation. That is a third warning contained in it. A fourth warning, which I think is very important, concerns the exercise price or the payback obligations. Elia and the CREG are diametrically opposed to each other in this respect. That's the common thread in the whole story. A certain possibility is offered between EUR 243 and EUR 300. One chooses the lowest amount, the other chooses the highest. I can only observe that the Haulology study refers to EUR 1.5 million in payback to a total amount of EUR 245 million. That doesn't sound like much to me. I hope you'll take that kind of money into account in your decision. After all, it is not possible to make substantial profits on other people's costs. A fifth point concerns the derating factors on storage and demand management. I found that a very difficult point to understand, but your explanation was very clear. It remains to be seen that the difference with foreign projects is very large. The more storage and demand management, the lower the percentage. I understand that, but I do not feel that our production market is dominated by such factors. Percentages from 11 to 19 % I keep finding on the low side, especially because it has an impact on the volume to auction. The sixth point concerns the correction standard. That is a decision that has already been taken. The CREG also says that the standard is higher than what the committee wanted. Also on T-1 versus T-4 the positions are far apart. Elia says that if 2 gigawatts are pushed forward, the production capacity in T-4 is discriminated against. After all, it will be almost impossible to reach another threshold in T-4. The CREG says exactly the opposite: if T-4 is overloaded, it is to the detriment of T-1. Madam Minister, I do not know what the best solution is either, but I do know that there is a huge budget involved. I therefore feel very uncomfortable with these kind of statements. All I can do now is urge you to take the many warnings to heart and take them into account in your decisions. Finally, I had three questions. The adequacy and flexibility study of June 2021 falls at a time when the auction has actually started. So I'm assuming there can't be an impact on T-4 anymore, unlike on T-1. Is that right? How do you estimate these opinions from the CREG and Elijah? What is their impact on the European assessment of the dossier or is there no impact? Mr Wollants already stated that there are a number of extremes concerning the exercise price. Is it indeed your intention to choose one extreme or the other extreme or will the choice lie somewhere in between?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u8	I have not been able to record the last three specific points correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u9	My first question was about the impact of the adequacy and flexibility study. The impact on T-4 is no longer there, because the decision will be made in May. In June, the next adequacy and flexibility study will be carried out partly according to the ACER methodology. Does this have an impact on the T-1? To what extent do the opinions and working papers of the CREG and Elia we have now seen have an impact on the European assessment of the complete dossier? A number of choices need to be made. Is it your intention to choose an extreme or will your choices, such as the exercise price or the rating, lie somewhere in the middle? How am I supposed to estimate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u10	My speech is relatively long. You did not really go into the CREG proposal on the provision of volume and its advice on the network operators' report. That was downright devastating. That's not about details. The report was already available at the end of January, but you did not release it until the amendment of the CRM law had been approved by this Parliament. That is unacceptable. You always promise maximum transparency in this dossier, but over and over again we have to say that "maximum" is relatively low for you. You will not release information until the decision has been taken. I will not repeat the chronology that Mr Ravyts has already given. But it is also the case today. The KBs have been approved in the ministerial wheel and they're already at the Council of State. In fact, the decisions have already been made, and you are here today to defend them. This is, of course, different from consulting this committee, as stated in the CRM resolution. Consulting means first exchanging views, entering into discussions and then deciding. You may have formally said that you are consulting us, but in reality the decisions have already been taken, unless you will change those KBs on the basis of today's discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u11	Mr Warmoes, it is about the ministerial decision, not about the KBs. It's about the ministerial decision that will follow from the KBs. This is the subject of the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u12	I suggest that you do not interrupt me, because I am going to say more things today that you will not like. You'll have to answer in your reply. With regard to transparency, I note that the draft CREG proposal has no annexes, not on the website, nor on the copy sent to us. However, reference is made to Annex 1 with the questions of the CREG, which you have also referred to. Why aren't those attachments there? For us, they would have been interesting. In its opinion, the CREG clearly reveals all the concerns of the CRM dossier. They have been discussed here on several occasions, but your predecessor and yourself have always refused to do anything about it. So you're just gonna pick up where Mrs. Marghem left off, without any change of direction. You, too, and your records follow Elijah blindly. Whether we hear you or Elijah, that remains the same. You even use the same slides. I must admit that you are much more pedagogic, but you do have that merit. Today it has become clear that you have simply translated Elijah's position. That means that you have a great responsibility in this dossier. The CREG is right to be harsh in its analysis. She formally refuses to deliver a proposal and states that she is de facto put on the block. Due to a serious lack of transparency of Elijah and the lack of detailed results of her simulations, the CREG is forced to make a proposal that is actually determined by Elijah. She can only add or subtract the few figures that Elijah releases in the network manager's report. Her role is limited to that. Mr Ravyts has already said it, but I would like to quote the CREG, because I thought those words were rather punishing. Literally, the CREG says: "This does not allow the CREG to make an independent proposal, but forces the CREG to make a proposal that is in fact determined by Elijah." Furthermore: "This means that the CREG cannot exercise its power of proposal and cannot therefore convert the current draft proposal into a formal proposal." Furthermore: "As the KB volume methodology is fundamentally different from the CREG proposal, the CREG considers that its power of proposal, which was granted to it by the European Electricity Regulation, is not recognised." Those are very punitive terms, aren't they? The CREG also reiterates its criticism that the network operator report is in breach of European rules. So she's asking for new calculations. The criticism of the CREG, of course, has one thread: the need for replacement capacity and the need for subsidies are greatly overestimated. The volume is overestimated and the revenues of the capacity holders are underestimated. I am still surprised that the more time goes on, both you, Madam Secretary, and Elia and the AD Energy continue to ignore any well-founded criticism of the CREG without any serious argument. We naturally support the CREG's request for new calculations. If they had been made a long time ago, they would probably have been available today. The current approach is clearly set out: building as many gas plants as possible to channel as many subsidies as possible to the large energy multinationals. We've been wondering for a while why you're so stubborn about that scenario. The more we dig, the more the whole thing seems suspicious to us. It now appears that the profits of the energy multinationals are falling. In fact, we can almost think that the CRM is designed, not to guarantee security of supply, but to maintain the declining profits of the energy multinationals. The CRM is, of course, an expression of the imminent market failure caused by the energy transition. As there is more renewable energy, the number of rotation hours of conventional power stations is decreasing. This, of course, threatens the business model of the energy multinationals and reduces their profits. As renewable energy becomes more dominant and increases to 60% or 70% of the energy mix, that 'problem', which is their problem but not our problem, will become even greater. There will need to be more and more subsidies for less and less energy produced by conventional power stations, just to maintain private companies' profits. By leaving the energy transition to the market, the citizens are therefore paying for the greater costs, and unnecessary subsidies are being awarded instead of tax money being used much more efficiently and effectively. However, the solution is simple. We have repeated it several times. Take that energy transition in public for God's sake, so that the profit appetite is no longer a brake on the transition and its returns flow back to the community. Now the citizens pay the price to keep up the profits of the energy multinationals. I don't know if you realize that, but the citizens aren't that stupid, the transition will cost them a lot of money. You and your party will probably have to pay the price sooner or later. If no new calculations are made, the CREG indeed proposes to reserve 2 extra gigawatts for the T-1 auction in 2023 and thus to reduce the auction volume for the T-4 auction in October by 2 gigawatts. In other words, according to the CREG, no new gas plant should be built, as there is already more than 7.2 gigawatt capacity on the market. This seems to us to be a wise and cautious decision, given the many doubts and the fact that Elijah's new adequacy and flexibility study, which will be available from June, will take into account a number of aspects of climate change. One will be too late. It is therefore wise to wait for this, as well as for the further implementation of the European methodology. I do not go into the critical comments made by the CREG. They are already known, even though the majority continue to ignore them. I would like to comment on Elijah's opinion on the CREG proposal and on your position on a number of notable statements made by Elijah, Madam Minister. Elia states in the opinion that the European methodology drawn up by ACER should not be used in determining the CRM parameters. Do you think that the European methodology should not be used to dimension the CRM? Do you agree to Elijah's position? Elia says we shouldn't take climate change into account during the auction. That is, of course, hypocritical, because Elia intends to do so in the next supply security study, which will take place by June, and the next CRM auctions will be based on the European methodology. Why not do that before the first auction in October? Madam Minister, you will probably reply that the ACER methodology is not plug and play and that many additional steps need to be taken before the new methodology can be applied. You have repeated that a few times. You will say that we cannot therefore now take climate change into account. However, that is not right. You can easily reduce the number of climate years used. This does not require complicated modelling. You have chosen option 1 to predict the future using modelling, but in anticipation we can limit the number of climate years. The proof that this is not complicated is that Elijah has already done so, at the request of the CREG. Actually, you're using an argument that doesn't cut wood. So there is a pertinent unwillingness with Elijah and with you to apply this. You will now of course say that this cherrypicking is also a fashion word if we limit ourselves to most recent 30 climate years. That's not true either, because what the CREG is asking is not a cherrypicking. The CREG asks for the European methodology to be applied and it proposes several options. It is one of the valiable options and it is easy to implement. If the other options, such as modelling, are not yet operational, why not apply this option? It's perfect. The only possible conclusion I can draw from this is that you are refusing to take climate change into account, at least for this first auction, and that you are doing everything you can to channel as many subsidies as possible to the energy multinationals for the construction of new polluting gas plants. Madam Secretary, I think it is a punishment for you not to take climate change into account. The second point concerns a remarkable statement by Elijah. Elia argues that the European ACER methodology should not be used for dimensioning but for assessing the adequacy of electricity supply. Do you consider that the ACER methodologies of the ESAA have been followed in determining the need for a CRM? This may be a rhetorical question. Elia admits that up to now there has been no European assessment of the adequacy of electricity supply. I have asked you several times, and you have never replied. According to Article 21 (4) of the European Electricity Regulation, a CRM mechanism can only be approved if a security of supply problem is identified in the European Resource Adequacy Assessment (ERAA) and in the National Resource Adequacy Assessment (NRAA). In other words, no CRM can be implemented before there is a problem or a shortage in both studies. To date, there is no European study showing that there is a security of supply problem in Belgium. Do you consider that, according to that regulation, the ERAA is necessary to approve the need for the CRM or not? The Belgian supply security study, which demonstrates the so-called need for a Belgian CRM, dates back to June 2019. It is quite clear that the European methodology was not followed at the time, one could almost say, in temporary non-suspecto. The same can also be said for the reference scenario currently being applied, MAF 2019, with some adjustments. This too does not meet the European methodology. Then it is remarkable that Elia himself states that the European methodology must be followed to demonstrate the need for a CRM, but has not done so. Can you refer to a study that follows both the European methodology and demonstrates the need for CRM? Of course you can't. That's a big problem, because here you actually do cherrypicking yourself. It can't be much bigger than that. Elia herself says that the European methodology must be followed and then does not do it herself. That's kind of special, isn't it? In all this discussion, we are still starting from the prevailing, very strict standards of reliability. By the way, you have made a comparison with other countries. You also know that European rules require Belgium to adopt a new standard based on a study of the parameter (VoLL), the cost of the power cut. In its opinion, the CREG points out that the current standard of reliability, i.e. the LOLE of 3 hours, is most likely too strict. This means that it is crucial that we set a more accurate standard of reliability as soon as possible, a less stringent standard in line with the European methodology. This will ensure that the need for replacement capacity will be even smaller than what is currently being calculated. By the way, the new CRM Act provides that the reliability standard applicable on 15 September will apply to the following CRM auctions. It is therefore important that the new standard of reliability be adopted before 15 September 2021. Can you guarantee that this new standard will be there before 15 September? AD Energy and Elia blame the CREG for not giving any quantitative or technical support to its proposal to move 2 gigawatts from T-4 to T-1. Of course it doesn't, because it doesn't have the resources and even less the models to calculate that. The CREG initially asks for a recalculation. It's not the first time she's asked. You are going to say, of course, that there is no time for that, but you have actually refused to change that since your arrival. Your predecessor has always refused to do so. We haven't forgotten that. On behalf of the MR, Mrs Marghem is now able to express her concern about consumer costs, but of course she is also responsible for overestimating and changing all the comments and suggestions to reduce costs. The fact that you, as a green minister, refuse to do so and simply go along with what the energy lobby dictates, is something that I find particularly disconcerting. In his opinion, Elia also portrays the CREG's proposal as unrealistic by tearing it out of context, with a calculation of the necessary capacity to manage demand in the T-1 auction. That is intellectually unfair, because of course that is not what the CREG is proposing. That the CREG proposes to transfer 2 gigawatts to T-1, of course, is because you and Elia have no choice but to take the European methodology into account in 2023. Elijah will be forced, whether he likes it or not, to take into account climate change and to correctly assess revenues, based on the correct standards of reliability. All these adjustments will significantly reduce the need for additional volume. In this way, sustainable alternatives to new gas plants will also be given more opportunities. An overestimate of the volume now will result afterwards in a correction of the volume that is still auctioned in T-1. Then there will be hardly any volume left, with the result that all subsidies will then go to the gas plants and not to more sustainable alternatives, such as demand management or storage. You say you're following the CREG proposal without shifting 2 gigawatts from T-4 to T-1. That's actually Elijah's proposal, let's be clear about that. That's a volume of 9.2 gigawatts, but that's a derated volume. So the question is how much the volume of existing capacity is today derated. If we know that, of course we also know how much volume of new capacity you are aiming at. Ladies and gentlemen, before we talk about the reduction factors and the exercisable price, I would like to refer to a passage from Elia's opinion, which makes it clear what we are talking about here. You almost verbatim repeated it, Madam Minister: "Elia wishes to point out that such a change" - moving 2 gigawatts to T-1 - "risks that no new capacity will be contracted in T-4." Elia then concludes that the CREG proposal excludes certain technologies and therefore runs counter to the principle of technology neutrality. I would like the members of the majority and opposition to take this into account. Elia therefore departs a priori from the construction of new gas plants. That's the conclusion. The CREG proposal does not allow this. Therefore, of course, Elijah is not happy with the advice of the CREG, if I may use those soft terms. If its calculations show that the new gas plants are not necessary, the point is, of course, that they are in breach of technology neutrality. That's the world upside down. Madam Secretary, I actually know what you think of Elijah's reasoning. You indicated this almost with the same words in your presentation. It is difficult to find a better illustration of the way in which the energy lobby is pushing for subsidies to new gas plants. Finally, I would like to touch on a number of other aspects of the opinion of the CREG. In view of the importance of the reference price, I should like to begin by referring in particular to the exercise price. In my opinion, you have not spoken of this, unless I have missed myself. The CREG states that the exercise price is very high. Elia sets that price at 300 euros per megawatt hour. The CREG proposes a lower exercise price, i.e. 230 to 245 euros per megawatt hour. This is important, since the exercise price is intended to counter usury profits by producers. You didn't say anything about that. So I would have liked to know from you what exercise price you will apply. The CREG considers intermediate maximum prices to be too low. The correction factor is a matter of urgency. You have shown a graph showing the factor 1.5 that you have chosen. I repeat that the CREG opinion referred to a correction factor of 1.1. You indicate that you have no reason to doubt the factor 1.5. That's your choice, but that makes the cost higher. I mean the subsidy for the winners and the cost to the taxpayer. Finally, the CREG considers that it is impossible to deliver an opinion on the reduction factors, which it considers to be very low, since they are very brief and it proposes to examine whether the methodology is appropriate. It's probably gonna have to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u13	Mr President, I have listened to you from afar, but I have heard you all as well as you are, and I thank you for giving me the floor. Minister, I'd like to talk to everyone on this issue, not just you. I have heard a lot of things and I would like to start by reminding you that this type of case is extremely difficult to know, understand and manage, and for anyone. Anyone who is confronted with it faces the same difficulty. We must try to understand that. That is why it is important to be as transparent as possible. However, I have heard, and I say it kindly, from the parties of the majority speaking on the subject of transparency. I recognize Mr. Verduyckt, whom I think I see there, even if I don't have my glasses. I have heard him say that transparency is of great importance and is precisely a way of eliminating concerns, of taking ownership of the issue and giving it a broad democratic base. That is what is ultimately important. That is why, contrary to what I heard here a few moments ago, I myself had made sure that the follow-up committee was heard very regularly. I will honestly say that it was under the impetus of the opposition, and at its burning demand, that I did so. Your party was also at the time in this opposition and was one of those who called for the greatest transparency and exchange with all the living forces working on this issue. So we must not forget it. Other times, other morals may be, but the file is still the same. He's always so complicated. Under the previous legislature, the general framework was laid down. We gave him birth. Now, the child begins to be fed, to take flesh, and to grow. The legitimate concern of some, which I have also heard in the parties of the majority, is the cost. I hear some voices that go squarely in the opposite direction. It is a speech posture that consists of saying: "For us, CRM is not indispensable. It will only generate additional costs and difficulties. It is ultimately because the minister and her cabinet are under the control of the lobbies of gas and energy lobbies that we continue on a path that will ultimately prove too heavy to support for our system." If I hear what they're saying, it's totally useless. I would nevertheless like to put the church back in the middle of the village and say that we know very well, when we know a little bit about the Belgian energy system, that there are many existing capacities but that they are old, not at current performance standards, and that they need support, which they also enjoy within the perimeter of the strategic reserve. Recently, when the announcements were made under the previous legislature of the possibility of creating a CRM system in our Belgian law, they returned to our market because they regained the appetite to undertake. This concerns the market on the one hand. On the other hand, their flexibility and therefore the performance we expect, which must be the best, also gives us access to the flexibility we need no matter what happens in our system. Indeed, whether we extend nuclear power plants or not - because we are obliged to do so and we have always done so - we need the flexibility of other energy sources. I will take a step further, Madam Minister. Since, as you pointed out at the beginning of the sitting, you will only set volumes in a month, I really ask you to take advantage of this time after the Easter "leave" - because I know you are not going to rest and we may not - to ensure that we can hear the follow-up committee to have all the details and reconnect with all the difficulties and nuances of this file. Second, there is concern about a feeling of withdrawal and opposition that may be ill-placed. Indeed, we have no view of the current state of your discussions with the European Commission. However, it is very important that we know where you are with the European Commission. On many occasions, I have had to answer questions and I have done so because I am quite open and direct in temperament. How many times have I seen the Commission, what I've told it, what I've been told, my appointments with the Parliamentary Commission some time after, my new appointments with the Commission... All of this is therefore possible. I think we have to do it. It is so important to know the path in which we find ourselves and how the Commission will receive some important elements from our case, from the Belgian case. A fundamental element is in this case: cost. There are two fundamental elements in reality, with security of supply. I have no doubt that everyone here is convinced that the security of supply of all Belgians and Belgian companies is fundamental. We certainly cannot save a megawatt on this. We cannot, at some point, be confronted with a plan of relief in a developed country such as ours which is part of Europe, a union of developed states which are precisely trying to pool their efforts so that no one is confronted with a problem of security of supply. There is the problem of principle – it would really be a shame – and there is also the technical problem – it would be a technical disaster with immeasurable damage to the key. The European Commission will take an extremely precise look at this cost issue. This vector is, for her, the most important in her category of reasoning, i.e. whether or not there is State aid compatible with European rules. That is why we need to have a view of your exchange with the European Commission and to know where we are headed. When you have set with the government the volumes, which you will return to us with this information, systematically after the fact – you are in an executive and we are in a parliament, of course – you will explain all this to us. But we will still not know if the European Commission accepts the consequences of the volume of market knowledge and of what it might cost. All the more so since there is something strange, and I would like to ask you a question to that effect. I understand – but it's up to you to say in an extremely sharp way – that for the first year we will use the median revenues. This is a bit surprising as Elia is currently studying the adequacy and flexibility of using the different income parameters of the ACER method, the European method. On the one hand, we will have a study of adequacy and flexibility using an X method, and on the other hand, for the first year, Elia's old method – the one she has used so far – based on the median income whose risk is – this has been said by several speakers and everyone has understood – to evaluate too strongly or to lead to a cost assessment that is raised. For one-year investments, that's no big deal. We'll change later. But for those who are going to run over several years, for the big investors who are going to award their prices for new infrastructure in our territory for more than a year (most of the time for 10 to 15 years), the difficulty will be great. We must not imagine that the European Commission will not see this and will not understand it. If this process is to be managed and carried out successfully, the Belgian State will have to ensure that all this is managed. We need at least one ability to react and anticipate this element. I have already had the opportunity to tell you this in various questions I have asked you about this and the information has appeared in the press. I will not mention the excellent Dutch-speaking newspaper which published an article on gas power plants and their geographical map in our country last week. Here I consider the situation with the Dutch-speaking gaze on Wallonia. Therefore, I cannot be suspected of preaching for or against the presence of gas-fired power plants in my own province. But it turns out that the problem is at this level. In summary, two regional ministers decided to issue extremely drastic conditions in terms of CO2 capture for the application of an operator's licence for the construction of a new gas plant in Hainaut. This was echoed by the excellent Flemish newspaper, whose question. This is in line with the question that I had asked you before, without knowing the decision that would be taken by a member of my party and a member of your own party on the packaging of permits. It must be noted that this is a great difficulty. Of course, your jurisdiction lies at the federal level. When I was a minister, I have been confronted with this kind of situation many times, as is always the case with energy. But we need to have an interview and a continuum of maintenance with the federated entities to secure the creation of these infrastructures on the regional territory because the federal government no longer has territory, except that of the North Sea. You are well placed to know this because you inaugurated a wind farm whose process I had initiated under the previous legislature. It is therefore clear that at the federal level, all you can and must do is to enter into agreements with the federated entities so that the concrete process of the legislative framework that you are feeding and growing can be applied in reality. I am afraid that this operator, who has not obtained a blank permit, will have to set up - perhaps unlike others - under conditions that seem unfeasible to him since the capture of CO2 seems technically impossible at the moment. Of course, we must take this into account and ensure that certain operators do not benefit from it compared to others. All conditions must be the same for everyone, even if you are not, as a federal minister, directly responsible for these conditions, which are housed at the regional level. In all truth, I would really like you to be precise about the questions that have been asked to you by everyone, and that I ask again in part, with some personal accents. This is indeed an extremely important element for the future of this country, for its energy security and for the factors of businesses and citizens, and I know that you are as sensitive to it as I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u14	Mr Ben Achour, you are asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u15	Mr President, I would like to apologize because I had to travel between two committees. I was therefore unable to speak in the first round. I have been debriefed of the minister's answers to the questions I had tabled, and I would like to go back to something that I think is important and that concerns me personally. This is the issue of reduction factors. I know that the minister presented Elia's methodology, which resulted in low ratings, a reduction factor of 19%. I would like to return to this point concerning the pumping and turbining stations of Coo and the Water Dam of Hour. It is a highly developed technology in Wallonia, given the more hilly relief of Wallonia. We know that the reduction factor is an essential parameter for our capabilities to offer a competitive price. I would not like to leave it to the fact that there is discrimination against this technology, which is available for security of supply, remote control, efficient and sustainable. This figure of 19% is all the more worrying given that the figures for two neighbouring countries, France and Great Britain, are 80 per cent and 90 per cent respectively. I would therefore like, if possible, to rehearse the minister on this subject and ask her whether, indeed, she considers that there is potentially discrimination against this important technology in Wallonia and in relation to neighbouring countries, which would prevent a real level playing field at European level. On the other hand, does this potential discrimination not pose a risk to the legal soundness of the mechanism? In short, Madam Minister, will you stay at that 19%?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u16	Madam Minister, I would like to raise a number of points which I have already raised in the previous discussion. The timing is very tight. You know that, Madam Secretary. We have passed the law. As a result of this debate, I, like other colleagues, put the emphasis on budgetary costs. A number of elements and possible guarantees may be laid down in the implementing acts. The implementing acts relating to this law are also extremely important. Those implementing decisions have been adopted by the Council of Ministers, but they are still pending before the Council of State. Knowing that the Council of State will suspend its meetings from 24 March to 16 April, is that suspension period of this nature to jeopardise the timing, which is already tight? My second question concerns the European Commission. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. We have said this on several occasions. You must pass through the European Commission. You have given the elements to defend your file there. The purpose of this debate is to get a state of affairs. You can't answer what you don't know yet. You've had those conversations. We are all expecting the Commission's response, whether or not it is happy. Are there any things you can tell us today? The third element is also important, but it is a piece outside your competence. It's about those permit procedures. That is, of course, a matter of regional importance. We all read the excellent newspapers, especially on the Flemish side, about which Mrs Marghem spoke. Things can indeed be imposed from the Regions. It goes without saying that these authorisation procedures must be consistent with the objective we all set ourselves. That's how it's supposed to be in a federal country. However, if one reads some reactions or listens to statements, one can ask questions. Is that what you're worried about? Are you in consultation with these regional authorities? Quid the permit procedures? Finally, there is the cost. What is included in the implementing decisions in this respect? What is the timing of the implementing decisions? I made that comment at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u17	Madam Minister, you may now try to answer the many questions in order to find the line in the dossier. After all, at some point it went a bit all over the place. A good parliamentary debate must be able to lead to a number of positions, so that we can go home enriched.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your detailed questions. Before that, I would like to say that many of you have quoted either the documents of the CREG or that of Elijah. This has been put into a debate here as if one against the other. I don't look at it that way. I have two comments to make on this. First of all, I notice that virtually no one has quoted from the advice of the FOD. The FPS has also given an opinion and until further notice is the competent authority when it comes to security of supply. The whole set of documents before me is important to me to make a decision. It is also logical and right that Elia and the CREG do not always share the same view. What else would we do here? The design can even improve if there is a bandwidth on the points of view and the points of view are challenged, on the one hand and on the other hand, and if there is also a tranche. That is why I would like to say that the advice of the FOD is also interesting to read and quote. Secondly, the last exchange of views with the follow-up committee has shown that the confrontation of positions brings the conclusion closer together. I refer specifically to what has been said about the IPC, the bidding behaviour of the IPC and the impact it has had on the implementing decisions we have prepared and on which I will go into more detail in response to the punctual questions. A number of questions have been asked about the transparency of the reports and about the fact that I have had them for so long. The proof of the pudding is always in the eating . The final point is that we have to take a volume decision on 30 April 2021 and that the resolution states that Parliament must be consulted. Today is March 30, 2021, so a month before the decision. So there is still plenty of time to hold the consultation. She shouldn't be on a trot. The documents are here; they have been studied; there are talks about them at government level and at IKW level and we have that conversation here today. I have also explicitly opened up the request in the resolution, in particular the whole aspect of the reduction or derating factors. I would like to thank the three or four people who have specifically addressed this issue in order to give additional questions and suggestions on it or on its direction. So we have a month before the debate. May I also remind you that during the discussion of the law we had an exchange of views with the follow-up committee? They've been here all day. Questions were first asked, followed by an exchange of views. We ate sandwiches twice, in the afternoon and in the evening. After that, there was a committee meeting. There has been a second reading. There has been a parliamentary debate. We have therefore first held the parliamentary debate on the law, which later at government level led to the work of the royal decisions at first reading. They were sent to the Council of State for advice on 30 days. Mr President, at the moment I have no indication that the Easter holiday will have an impact on that opinion. The hearing officer asks a lot of questions to my team, which makes sense. After all, it is about a lot of text and many technical elements. I have no indication that there would be a kink in the cable. I am sure you will remember that it was my intention and wish to ask for advice on 30 days and no emergency advice on 5 days, given the impact of the texts. The Royal Decree follows the volume decision. It's not the other way around! First, the KB is submitted to the Council of State for its opinion at first reading, followed by the second reading. We do not have any SNCB notification for the main RBs. This means that the most important KBs, in particular the KB around the volume, will be fully re-examined within the government, following adaptation to the opinions of the Council of State. On the basis of these KBs, the decision on the volume is then taken. No, this is not a pro-forma consultation. This is a consultation of Parliament. You can now go two ways: you can come at me with all sorts of accusations about what could have been done faster, or we can also use the time to get rid of a number of points, such as the derating factors and the direction the IPC goes on. The discussions with the European Commission are progressing constructively. There are close contacts between the European Commission and my cabinet, which systematically eliminates outstanding issues raised in the opening decision or in the context of the public consultation. The dialogue is still on track. A decision will hopefully fall around the summer, preferably shortly before, so that the market players can use the summer period to prepare the auction thoroughly. You also asked questions about the capacity in the United Kingdom and the auction in the T-1. The UK owns a CRM. So we can assume that they have their security of supply in order. In addition, there is an interconnection between Belgium and the UK. In other words, at times of scarcity, the price in Belgium may be higher, which will allow imports. We should therefore be able to count on imports from the UK, but I repeat the reservation I expressed earlier: that scenario is, of course, based on a number of hypotheses that we ourselves cannot grasp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u19	Indeed, it is a bit bizarre: it is on the sites, but the situation may change if agreements were still to be concluded with the UK. As regards the ineligible capacity, on the one hand the accumulation and on the other hand the volumes below 1 megawatt that can aggregate, was asked what the estimation is: can it be variable? The network operator's report is based on a derated volume of 205 megawatts for a CHP less than 1 megawatts and the aggregation plays than for the other technologies and can be done at SLA level. With regard to the median and expected revenue, Mr Wollants, you spoke about the first and second year of delivery, about the Net CONE and the discrepancy between it. Other speakers have taken note of this, but perhaps in a less educational way. I would like to say two things about this. Firstly, the methodologies date from 2 October anyway, so we cannot change things from the past retroactively. It is true that a piece will be calculated on the basis of the old data and a piece based on the new data. I can't move faster than the light. It is what it is. Secondly, we must bear in mind that our maximum price is significantly lower: the maximum price of the resolution, as it was set, and the maximum price of EUR 75 or 64 per kilowatt, as shown by the various documents. In itself, therefore, there is no need to worry about the fact that the Net CONE would be higher by underestimating revenue, because the maximum price above which we will not contract is low. We are not here at the level of neighbouring countries. The question about the IPC is justified. Reference is made to EUR 28.30 and to EUR 21.24, but what about the EUR 20, which we have written down? For this I would like to refer to page 77 of the network operator report, where Elia writes: Elia offers 21.4 euros per kW per year as a low intermediate maximum price level. This value is considered to be high but, based on revenue estimates, it is not considered to be an unreasonable intermediate maximum price level. It should be noted that if this value is retained, it does not seem unreasonable to follow the value of the CPI proposed in the Parliamentary Resolution of 16 July 2020 on CRM, i.e. an intermediate maximum price of up to 20 euros per kW per year. I said that the EUR 28 is not on the agenda anyway. I note that the CREG says that EUR 21.4 is okay and that Elia says that the EUR 20 is actually reasonable. To the friends who say we shouldn't necessarily follow Elijah, shouldn't we follow Elijah here? But that's not so neat of me to say. Indeed, the resolution states that the price limit may be higher than the limits set out in the resolution, provided that a higher price limit is unavoidable in the context of security of supply. That's actually the more important part. For the IPC, it is specific if it can be demonstrated that a higher price limit is unavoidable in terms of security of supply or to limit the total cost of the mechanism. At the time we wrote that, we had not even been aware of the opening decision of the European Commission, nor even of the European Commission's comments on reducing the total cost of the mechanism. The derogation is now in play there. When I see what we have written here, and above all how we have meant it, I do not intend to come here today or at any other meeting here to say that it is inevitable to go to a higher value. I am inclined to propose that the price limits be followed as we have laid down in the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u20	As for the pumped storage, the strategic use of the asset is important. We are dealing here with two different points of view. Shall we base ourselves purely on a model, which goes towards maximizing prosperity? Or should we rely more on a market model, which, of course, goes more towards profit maximization? What reality in dispatching can be taken into account? I link up with Mr Malik Ben Achour's questions and remarks on discrimination and level playing field. There is discrimination if similar categories... I'll put it in Dutch. Equal categories must be treated equally and unequal categories must be treated unequally. Otherwise there is discrimination. Similar categories cannot be treated differently. Colleague Ben Achour, as I said in my presentation, there are different rates of reduction in neighbouring countries. They're much higher, while they're really very low at home. Similarly, the context is not the same in neighbouring countries, where penetration rates are much lower than at home. Therefore, the term "discrimination" is a concept that is cumbersome and has implications and consequences. If this term falls, the first question to be asked is "Are these similar cases?" Are we talking about similar cases or are we in a different situation? Before reaching such a consequence, I think that some reflections may still precede it, in particular the level playing field, which is another argument. I find that what was said about the dispatch mode is also different. I agree that the reduction rates are low and that they should be assessed. This is the work we are doing and I welcome the comments and suggestions that have been made in this regard. Mr Verduyckt also mentioned it: if we change the derating factors, of course there is also the interaction with the volume. This is an important context, but it is also about technology. I am thinking of turbining pumping, large batteries, which have great added value and which are key technologies in our CRM since they are reserved for the T-1 in large quantities. I shall go back to Mr Wollants' questions. I wrote to you about DSM and SLA. Not unlimited, then. How should this be used? In the best way. It's also an incentive to develop that kind of technique. I therefore agree with the findings. Hence the need to properly adjust the depreciation factors. We're actually counting on it. It is also the hypotheses as they have been taken over in the NEKP. Then, of course, we must also make it realise. It should not become a case of the chicken or egg. A low derating factor assumes that a large penetration will take place here. It is already big today, but it must also be realised. So we have to make sure that the derating factors also give a push to the technologies that we all perhaps prefer here together. With regard to payback obligation, and the impact on bidding behaviour and the maximum price applied, the payback obligation is important because it avoids overprofits in the system. It's a check-and-balances to avoid overprofits. That must be strict enough, but it must also be fair. If the risks are too great, they will also be priced. There's the trade-off that needs to be made. As for the maximum price, the shift of 2,000 megawatts is a lot and there might be something to say for a smaller share. But when I read in the documents that the CREG is unable to clarify this, that it is a rough assessment and that further calculations are needed, which it cannot carry out, I cannot choose 700 or 800 megawatts? Even though that seems to be a less rough estimate, it remains difficult to work with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u21	There is, by the way, a very clear opinion from my administration on page 14. "In the first instance, this volume of 2,000 megawatts cannot be sufficiently motivated by the regulator. According to the CREG, this is a rough estimate based on their remark. As the competent power security service, the FPS Economy's AD Energy can only oppose a transfer of a volume of 2,000 megawatts to the T-1 auction." I refer to what I said in my slides. This means that we will solve the established security of supply problem almost completely in T-1 by an additional transfer of 2,000 megawatts. I'm not like that. I think it is important to work on energy security and not to wait until a year before 2025 for the possible result. The question about offshore capacity is related, but will need further debate at a later date. Indeed, at the end of November 2020, the CREG shared a first version of the study with us for the first time. The study was intended to answer the questions raised by the former Minister in response to the Resolution on the CRM. We therefore considered it necessary to send the study back to the CREG in order to update it with the latest figures. Indeed, the figures on which the CREG based itself in the first version did not take into account the cost estimate made by the consultant. So if we want to use the study to build up our policy, the data must at least be usable. In the meantime, I have received the new CREG study, which I had accompanied by additional questions to the CREG. The study was also published on the website of the CREG. However, the current version of the study is not enough for me to base our work on the energy standard. In this respect, I have once again asked additional questions to the CREG, because we want to be able to provide for a continuous monitoring of prices, based on current figures. We also need a dashboard that is sufficiently up-to-date and dynamic to be able to base our policy preparation. It is also wrong to say that I will not work on a proposal until September or November 2021. After all, it's just like I want to land. So we have to work on it now. Indeed, I have asked for additional simulations and additional analyses in order to be able to address the challenges now. In the study of 28 January 2021, the CREG identifies the need for regularisation in 2022 in relation to the year 2020, a year particularly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and a significant reduction in electricity reductions. The exceptional circumstances in 2020 have an additional cost of €100.4 million which should in principle be financed by the offshore electricity bill surcharge. It is an increase in the offshore payment for the year 2022 resulting from the old policy. In the current state of affairs, the legislation provides that a deficit in the supplement will be recovered with a delay of two years. This presents an additional challenge, but it does not prevent us from working on a solution in line with the resolution, which is to ensure that the cost component does not increase the federal share. As far as the published study is concerned, I can also say that the degressivity proposal as it now stands does not meet the government agreement and cannot therefore be implemented one by one. Moreover, as far as I am concerned, it is a very scary picture of reality. If we really want to work on the energy bill, we need to open up the discussion. The preparatory work of the CREG is useful, but we stress that these are elements. The energy standard will have to work on more than just the ODV CRM and more than the ODV offshore. For me, therefore, it is necessary to send the CREG back to the drawing board on this point. We need an up-to-date overview of all the cost components, as well as some simulations that do respond to all the challenges we face with the energy standard. So there is still work to be done to come up with proposals by October or November 2021. Mrs Buyst asked questions about the contribution of the regions. Those are indeed essential. There's an agreement. We base ourselves on the document of the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP). The hypotheses and scenarios, such as my questioning, contained in them, are now used in the CRM. If this is not right and the regions believe that they should only do what they have committed themselves to, I am counting on them to come and tell me. A number of consultations can then take place within the framework of ENOVER. I heard that Ms Marghem had suggested entering into agreements with the federated entities, but the agreements exist in the PNEC. Our procedures and procedures for exchanging information also exist, particularly in CONCERE. This does not alter the fact that there is, of course, a need for good consultation and mutual understanding. Then I come to Mr Ravyts' questions. There was a very comprehensive explanation and a reconstruction of the timeline. The CRM Act has been adopted; we have finished the KBs and they are for advice to the Council of State, after which a second reading will take place and then a decision on the volume will be taken by 30 April. We are today March 30th. It's not that exciting. It is what it is. I think we are well in time for a number of things, especially in time for Parliament's suggestions to be included in the decision to be taken. I have already answered the question about the contradictions between the opinions of Elia and the CREG. For me, there is a professional cooperation between the different actors. This was also noted in the previous exchange of views with the various members of the follow-up committee. It is clear that they have different views on a number of issues. The advice of the FOD is also certainly important to take. For the question about the fight between the CREG and Elia I refer to the opinion of the AD Energy on page 14. Those documents were also delivered to the secretariat. I have answered the question about the offshore surcharge in the energy standard. Then there was another question about the CO2 emissions of the new gas plants and the link with the RRF or the relay plan. The environmental permit is a regional competence. I assume that additional restrictions or conditions are considered and that the principles are applied equally to all sectors. I would like to stress that the CRM is being introduced throughout Belgium. It is in the interest of security of supply and the cost to society that there is a level playing field between the regions, so that investments in new production capacity come into the most meaningful places, respecting emission limits that are similar and equivalent across regional borders. Energy policy is such a shared competence but also a shared responsibility. As the Federal Minister for Energy, I am certainly taking up my share, namely to guarantee the supply of energy. I am therefore doing what is necessary to achieve this objective by introducing a CRM. To determine what is needed for this, I therefore assume that the regions will achieve their own climate and energy objectives. The Federal Production Licence does not provide for a requirement for CO2 capture, but it does assess the availability of CO2 capture storage sites and the technical and economic feasibility of CO2 transmission networks and the adaptation of the CO2 capture installation. As regards the environmental permit of the project in Manage, measures have been introduced for the first time by the delegated official. This decision indeed raises the issue of how best to achieve the decarbonisation of gas plants. I think we all agree that decarbonisation is necessary and that we therefore need the most appropriate technologies. CCS is one of the ways to decarbonise certain industries, if there is no other way. This therefore applies to processes which cannot decarbonise in the short term. But there are also other methods, such as the deployment of biogas and hydrogen and other innovative projects such as the pre-combustion CCS. In this sense, your reference to the relay plan is justified, because we are specifically committed to it through the Molecule project for a sum of EUR 50 million. We want to encourage the right technologies and at the same time avoid the possibility of additional costs being placed on the consumer's invoice. I refer to the slide I showed a few meetings ago with the different lines, where the line of sustainability is in the RRF. The European Commission has asked a number of questions about the project on the development and integration of new technologies, as it does about other projects. We are now fully answering those questions. That brings me to Mr Verduyckt's comment. Mr Verduyckt, I follow your uncomfortable feeling about these CRMs. I'd like to turn it around, too. If we didn't do anything, we wouldn't be comfortable. This is the ultimate search for just enough, not too much, not too little, at an acceptable cost. That's why we're looking at those different elements. Doing nothing and closing our thermal capacity would also give us a very uncomfortable feeling. Taking control of the case now, looking ahead, with those different checks-and-balances on the radar, makes sure we get a grip on the case. Then we'll know which way we're going. The payback obligation to which you refer is part of that. That's a guarantee to avoid those excess profits. The derating factors that you found very low are also an element of that. You also pointed to the transfer of 2,000 megawatts and the link to the price. However, let us not forget that the maximum price we have set in our resolution, which is EUR 75, is now lower on the basis of the proposals. This should give us the comfort that we are working here within a framework that we can achieve budgetaryally, at least get to work. In this sense, it is becoming clearer how the various variables will be filled in and how we can and must deal with them in the future. Then there was a question about the impact of the adequacy and flexibility study on the T-1. Volumes shall be recalculated each time. That will indeed have an impact on that. These opinions will not be directly involved in the European assessment, but of course in an indirect way. The first question in the European assessment is whether there is over-procurement. In this sense, of course, we are also updating our information towards the European Commission, with the new elements that are coming towards us. This should enable the European Commission to make a better assessment. So it can only make a positive contribution. I've already given you an insight into the choices. I certainly will not come here to review the values in the resolutions. I'm not inclined to follow the 2,000 megawatts. However, there is an open point that we are still examining further, namely the power of regulation. Mr Warmoes, I am opposed to the argument that the documents will not be delivered until everything has been decided. The volume isn't decided. Derating factors have not been decided. The intermediate value is, but the parameters are not decided. A network manager's report has been made on this. There is a proposal from the CREG. There is an opinion from the CREG. Then there was an opinion from my administration. There was then an opinion from the CREG. He's gonna feed the decision. That decision shall be taken by 30 April at the latest. Saying that the documents come at a time when everything is already decided is wrong. Perhaps we have another frame of reference of how decisions are taken, or another notion of consultation or pushing decisions. This exchange of views takes place when the law is passed, that is correct. That is a democratic process. It is also true that the royal decrees are before the Council of State for advice. This is a ludicrous situation, in which we await the opinion of the Council of State, just because we have a tight timing, and we are using it to think about how we are going to proceed with the determination of the volume. It would have been of a different order if I had called the President to say that this had to be dealt with quickly. No, we are doing this well in advance, as I said twice myself. In relation to the annex, I have been missed for this, and I would like to apologize for not having that annex. We will see if we can still send that annex back. In Annex 1, the CREG reproduces the questions asked and the answers sent by Elijah in full. I also note that there have been no further questions to exchange information and no further questions to consult. With regard to the question of as many gas plants as possible, I would like to take the compliment that I can explain to you, but apparently not pedagogic enough. I'll try to explain. We reserve a very substantial volume for the T-1 auction. The T-1 auction concerns capacity that can be available within a year and what we do in that context is much higher than in other countries. These are in particular the first checks-and-balances. This has also been a decision of Parliament, which has also been made in the CRM design by Parliament. I was not a Member myself at the time, but that does not change the fact that I do know. A majority in Parliament then chose to do so, and that was actually the first step in building into the system that gas capacity did not, by definition, get a red carpet. There has been talk about Elijah's scenario, Mr Warmoes, but also here: right is right. The scenario proposed is the scenario proposed by the AD Energy and that is not Elia's scenario, not in name, not title, not content. After all, what was Elia's scenario in the 2019 adequacy and flexibility study? That was the HiLo scenario. What scenario was chosen by the previous minister? Not the HiLo scenario, but a scenario based on sensitivities, in particular the unavailability of 1.7 megawatts of the French nuclear park. Here, too, there is an adequacy and flexibility study which follows a number of things, a number of reflections are expressed by the regulator, an opinion is formulated by the AD Energy, which integrates several elements, leading to a decision by the authority responsible for security of supply, and that is still the government until further notice, in particular the minister responsible and the administration. I do not want to minimize the costs, because we are at a high cost and it must be correct. However, we can also turn it around: what is the cost if we do not have enough electricity? This was calculated by the Federal Planning Office in 2014. The total social economic damage is EUR 120 million per hour. The most vulnerable will be the first victim, even if there is no blackout. If we find ourselves in a situation in which we are being cut off, who says that we should do nothing now and later, the fact is that our energy policy is based on a policy of cut-off, the thinst populated municipalities, where the most vulnerable people happen to live, will first be cut off. Is that the security of supply policy we have to pursue in our country? I do not think we should do that. It is certainly not the choice of this government. Moreover, it has already been sufficiently demonstrated in this committee that if one is satisfied about the level of security of supply, in our case the LOLE of 3 hours, this has a mitigating effect on wholesale prices and thus also a mitigating effect on prices. I understand, of course, that if someone's responsibility doesn't go beyond paying the invoices to Facebook, it's harder to look further. I come to the climate aspect. We have already discussed this very extensively. Why can't we do that now? We cannot now change a number of things retroactively, because we have the timing set. If we had four, five or six years left to do a number of things, we could throw everything away; then we could see how we would apply the methodology. But we don't have that time. We do not say:après nous le déluge, we will see later. No, we take it proactively and we introduce it. We will be the first country in Europe to take the climate into account on the basis of a new methodology. As far as the ERAA and the NRAA are concerned, the ERAA will not be there, and you know it. That's not gonna be anywhere. Because there are still a lot of countries that have CRMs in Europe. We're not the only country. It would be very special if we found that we have a security of supply problem, but that we do not need a CRM. That is a conclusion that we have not reached with the government. There are still countries that have CRMs, and those countries have also been confronted with the fact that there is no ERAA. They are also confronted with the implementation plan of ENTSO-E in this area. However, in our next adequacy and flexibility study we will integrate the new methodology as much as possible. We do this proactively. We could very well decide to use the agreed implementation plan of ENTSO-E. Then we wouldn't be working on climate years in the next adequacy and flexibility study, because that's only for later. Then we would not now include the expected revenue, because that is only for later. We will, at least, do those two things. Why? Because we are convinced that they add value and that they are important to do, even because we still have to do our T-1 auction. The reliability standard is too strict according to a speaker. If this is the case, it means that we can increase it perfectly and it is socially acceptable that we will have fewer hours of electricity. So far, that's three hours. I have shown the slide, in line with the different European countries. There's no number stuck here, so I'm not gonna do that either. Those who say that the reliability standard is too strict say that it is socially and socially acceptable to run out of electricity; they think it is acceptable to base our energy policy on a switch-off policy. That's not the choice this government makes. As far as the exercise price is concerned, I have explained that the payback obligation starts to play from the moment one goes above the reference price. In this respect, the values suggested by Elia and the CREG are quite close: EUR 300 and EUR 245. Then I come to the median income and the expected income. In response to Ms Marghem's question, the methodology that will be included in the Adeflex study will then be integrated into all aspects where it should be taken into account. It is therefore not only about the derogation, but also about the CPI itself. The third element is the operation of the Net CONE. On all the elements for which this is the P50 versus verwachte inkomsten, dat wordt hernomen in methodology. So, colleague Ben Achour, thank you for your questions about Coo pump-turbing stations. I think I've answered that, about the discrimination in the level playing field. In conclusion, we must reconsider this point, but I am still mixed, or not yet decided, on the derating factor, of reductiefactor. We must find the right balance between the maximization of welfare and the maximization of profits. Mr Dewael, I do not expect the suspension period of the Council of State to have an impact on timing. I have answered the question about the European Commission. As far as permit procedures are concerned, I assume, and I have no reason to doubt that most people are good. Those procedures create a level playing field. I express myself with caution because I do not want to go to the levels of competence of my colleagues. Energy is a shared competence and a shared responsibility and we must contribute to it, each from within our competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u22	Madam Minister, I think that much has been said, but the last word is always for Parliament. Are there any colleagues who would like to speak for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u23	Madam Secretary, you say that the documents are here now and that we can have the conversation. However, it would be useful to have access to this in the future just a little earlier. That would only make the debate more elegant and allow everyone to study it. You have already said that it is not the simplest matter and that there are a lot of pedagogical skills needed to get all this done. It would be good to have such reports from the CREG in the future, even if it is 'but' a report from the CREG and not yet a decision. This can only give substance to the discussion, especially since we have had a lot of discussions on the same subject in the meantime, where this information had come in handy. It wasn't wise to do that alone today. I welcome the fact that you say in the area of the IPC that we should stay at the 20. There are opportunities for that, too. I think that this is wise and that it is also a clear signal to control the cost. Of course, it continues to look at what the volume eventually becomes, especially in view of the debate on the rating of a number of technologies. That will have an impact on that. Reference was also made to the efforts of the Regions, but the impact of the rating on storage and on the pumping plants will be quite different from fulfilling the objectives in the field of sun and wind. We are now counting on 8,000 MW of solar energy, to be realized across the country. Quite a piece of that has already been realized. However, throughout this exercise, this is only 320 MW of the total over 13,000 MW. Some of that is being deducted, but it is important that we bear that relationship in mind. So I can only recommend that you do the short-term derating exercise. It has already been mentioned here that the first auction will be of enormous importance. In that case, contracts will be drawn up for 15 years. Once these contracts have been concluded, we will not get rid of them. That seems logical to me, with a view to legal certainty. This also means, however, that we must do everything we can to get the figures right. For the more accurate determination of the volume for delivery year 2, one is actually too late, because a number of things have already been done. That is why I would like to call on you to do absolutely nothing about it. We'll have to see how the story's gonna go on. One thing was not clear to me in your explanation of the UK. You say that you are counting on the capacity to be present and you will auction them anyway, even if there is no agreement in T-1. You could also assume that it is there in T-1, even though you do not expect it to be auctioned. If the capacity is not taken into account, it does not need to be auctioned. This also applies to the other non-accounted capacity, below the threshold of 1 MW or accumulated. If you are auctioning and if there is no agreement with the UK, you are actually auctioning additional capacity, while you are de facto not taking the UK into account. I find that a difficult story, perhaps a teaching session should be planned for that. I still see a difference between the explanations we have received and what the figures indicate. Of course, we are looking forward to the steps you will take in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for the very detailed answer. You said that I was talking about the transparency process in detail, and you are suggesting that the whole exercise today is running in the run-up to your final instruction on 30 April, and that it is the only one that counts, since there are still a number of decisions to be taken, including on derating. Madam Minister, this afternoon you began by explaining a number of implicit decisions of yours for an hour and giving a number of substantive responses to a number of documents, which we have not achieved for a long time. I have heard Mrs Marghem between the lines and with some subtlety she can, she is subtle enough to say that it would have been better, should there have been more interim meetings with the follow-up committee here. You won't tell me, after your presentation, that you haven't made any interim decisions? I am referring, of course, to the methodology and transfer of 2,000 megawatts, which you yourself rejected. You note that little has been said about your administration. I read on page 13 in the text that one of the conclusions of AD Energy of 26 February 2021 is that a modification of the parameters, hypotheses and simulations or methodologies threatens to delay the process in such a way that they can compromise security of supply. That's a vision. During the first hour, you clearly demonstrated that you are taking that view. So you have made decisions, not final decisions, of course, but interim appreciation decisions. You have sent a royal decision for advice to the Council of State. I can only say that it is absurd that since those first documents reached you, we had to wait until after mid-March 2021 before we could download and print those documents on the website of the CREG in order to be able to read them. So we did not even get them from the Minister, from the committee secretariat or from the chairman. Madam Minister, let us say that the transparency process is not perfect. I do not go as far as Mr Warmoes, who suggests that it is all intentional and part of a great plot with the grid operator and the major international players on the market because of the arrival of gas power stations and the profits, which are the classic PVDA-PTB story. He does, however, have a point about transparency here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your in-depth explanation. You've worked hard to distil some key information. Nevertheless, I have to make a few observations. Thus, it is not your immediate intention to convene the follow-up committee. Moreover, we do not know much about your discussions with the European Commission. However, it is important to know the position of several sensitive points and the answers given by the Belgian State. That still seems essential to me. On the other hand, I have learned from your explanations that the median price method has been running for some time, although I know that the ACER method has become mandatory since last October, so that it has had to be installed in Elia's software. However, apparently this will only be done after June, at the same time as the new adequacy and flexibility study. In addition, even if you do not say so, it may be appropriate not to delay the preparation of the files of the project offerers by one month - because that is the substance of the case - the time between the establishment of the royal execution orders and the deployment of the new method by Elia, otherwise difficulties in terms of retroactivity arise. And I understand that, because in this case you will be able to forget the legal certainty of public procurement. That is why one of us, who expresses it forcefully, is right to consider that we must play on all the parameters - including in the D-Rating - in order for long-term contracts to cost as little as possible. Having said that, I note your commitment, and it is positive, that you remain at the minimum and maximum prices set out in the resolution. It's already a good thing. However, when we look at the multiplier with megawatts and market prices, we may look at the addition differently. Let us hope that all this will follow its course in a bearable way, not only for security of supply, which is a primary requirement that we share, but also for the cost to be borne by households and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u26	Madam Secretary, history will tell us. We're gonna be able to make up the bill of all this in a few years. I have noted a few points as a reply. It remains curious that the draft proposal and the CREG opinion have been published on 28 January and only ten days ago, but good. You say that we have reserved a very substantial volume for T-1, so not for the gas plants. But you also said that Elia's new adequacy and flexibility study of June 2021 and the subsequent evaluations will be done as far as possible according to the new methodology. The result is, of course, predictable. It is most likely to reduce the need for capacity. So the result will be that you now say that you have reserved a substantial volume for T-1, but in 2023-2024 it will prove that it is no longer necessary, because the gas plants will have completely absorbed the necessary capacity in the meantime. That's my prophecy. You can make another prediction. But like I said, history will tell. This is a serious risk, if it's overrated now. As Mr Wollants said, the first auction is decisive. You can now reserve capacity for T-1, but it will probably not be necessary. I've also read the advice of the AD Energy. You quoted that. I also have some other quotes here. Eventually, it says we'll follow Elijah. It's been noted. Someone who says that the LOLE is too strict actually claims that it is socially and socially acceptable that we are out of electricity for a certain number of hours. First of all, with the 3 o'clock LOLE, that's the same thing. Then it is socially acceptable that it should be at 3 a.m. I am not saying that; it is the CREG that says that the LOLE is most likely too strict. There is a European obligation to establish a new standard. The date of 15 September will be crucial. Shall we have that new standard by September 15th or not? You also accept that there would be a shortage. A three-hour LOLE is not a zero-hour LOLE. The people in rural areas are then the most vulnerable, and then they are switched off. That is your choice, because other choices are also possible. If you simply rely on the market and on the cost, it will be because a normal family where the refrigerator is without electricity does not cost the economy much, but that costs those people a lot. However, if you ask a number of large consumers to reduce their consumption, this may be a larger cost, which can be reimbursed for some of it. That's another choice. The choice of who and where to switch off is a political choice that you then make. Don't put words in my mouth I didn't say. For drinking water, that is a different reasoning. That is where economic logic is not followed. Large-scale users will then be asked to reduce their consumption, and efforts will be made not to put people out of water. You say there are still countries that have CRMs. That's right, but it was approved before the new electricity regulation arrived. You'll have to say the same thing. The Belgian CRM is the first to be approved since the new electricity regulation came into force. That's where the whole difference is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u27	Madam Secretary, you're right that we wouldn't feel comfortable if we didn't do anything. I fully agree with that. When the two documents of Elijah and the CREG are placed side by side, with all due respect for the document of the FOD about which a little too much has just been done, this also says something about the design of the whole procedure. There's no point in worrying about that anymore. Your approach, which can be born out of such a clash of visions, is perhaps beautiful, but it is a procedure that costs hundreds of millions and more, which is why I am concerned. You say that the opinion of the CREG is being sent to Europe because it monitors state aid. For me, this is in stark contrast to the fact that they say that the market-wide application costs us a lot of money. Thank you for your answers. I am very pleased that we were able to have that discussion today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic430x.u28	From the shock of ideas comes the light!
