ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u1	Minister, it has been a while now, but unfortunately such matters remain a little more topical. On 23 March, the Ever Given, a container ship with a mass of 240,000 tonnes, was stuck and blocked the very crucial shipping connection. It soon turned out to be about a very complex breech position. The consequences are now known. A blocked Suez Canal, delays, damage to the maritime related economy and so on. The maritime sector, the engine of our economy, has not only been hit hard by the crisis, it also exposes Achilles heels like this. Hence my questions to you, Minister. When did you come into contact with which direct and indirect agencies, federal, Flemish, local, port authorities, European authorities, global bodies such as the IMO, in the interests of our maritime economy and maritime life in the general sense of the word? What were the results of these contacts, first and foremost in the short term, but also possibly in the longer term? Of course, it is not inconceivable that such incidents may still occur. Do you know how many ships registered under Belgian flag were delayed or stalled? Do you know how many ships flying under another flag had to call at Flemish ports? How many seafarers in possession of Belgian nationality were detained? We have just discussed the term'seafarers' in the legislative section. What initiatives were offered to ensure their well-being on board?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u2	Minister, the images of the blockade of the Suez Canal have shown how fragile the world economy is. A crashed ship blocked 12 percent of world trade. I found that rather hallucinating myself. After a lot of hard work by specialized workers, the Suez Canal was released and the congestion of ships slowly resolved. However, the blockade was a tragedy for humans and animals, because on the ships there are not only sailors, but also live animals. The blockade prevented 320 ships from sailing, including 20 ships with live animals. Those live animals are raised on ships, because it appears that live animals are cheaper to transport than processed meat products, because they do not need to be cooled. This is a result of our capitalist system in which one wants to transport at the lowest cost possible. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What role did your cabinet play during the blockade of the Suez Canal? Have initiatives been taken to improve well-being on board humans and animals? International shipping has been greatly confused by the blockade. Does this also affect shipping in the North Sea today? Is it now more crowded in the North Sea and in our ports because of the blockade? Can our seaports handle the peak of traffic? Are they prepared for this? Will sufficient workers be employed in ports to cope with the peak? Have you any idea of the damage caused to the Belgian economy by the blockade? If so, how much do you estimate the loss?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u3	Colleagues, when did I get in touch with the various services to analyse the situation? As soon as I heard the news of the blockade and it became clear that the blockade could not be resolved immediately, my services and in particular the Maritime DG analysed the situation. It was immediately checked whether Belgian ships had been blocked and whether these ships would then sail the alternative route along Cape de Goede Hoop. You know that taking the alternative route is not without danger, because ships will then have to cross the sensitive area of the Gulf of Guinea, an area sensitive to piracy. The results of these contacts showed that, fortunately, no Belgian ship had to undertake the journey through the Suez Canal during the six days that the incident took place. How many ships were delayed? No vessel under the Belgian flag was delayed. The impact on Belgian ports is not the responsibility of the federal government, but of the regions. My services therefore do not have any figures in this respect. Mrs Vindevoghel, shipping in the North Sea is currently no busier than usual. After all, it is not the case that all the ships that were stuck could sail through the canal at once. The sailors of Belgian nationality are not obliged to report to the Belgian authorities that they are serving on board a ship or ships under foreign flag. That is why I do not have any figures. What initiatives have been taken to improve and ensure well-being on board? According to the Maritime Labour Convention, ships must always have a sufficient reserve of drinks, food and medicines before they embark on the sea voyage. In Belgian ports, foreign ships are checked during inspections on board foreign ships. This is also checked in all other countries. As the incident lasted six days, it will not have been a problem for the vast majority of ships in the queue for the Suez Canal. If a ship in the queue had needed additional supplies, it would not have caused a problem, because the ships were all very close to the coast at anchor. I would also like to say that the Secretary-General of the IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, has meanwhile called for a thorough safety investigation to be launched and for the results to be submitted to the IMO. On the basis of this report, which will only serve to identify the cause and formulate safety recommendations, the IMO Maritime Safety Committee may take initiatives to prevent such accidents in the future. My services will, of course, follow the investigation with due attention. In any case, the incident shows that it is important to keep essential shipping routes, i.e. maritime waterways, open. I recall the Flinterstar accident in 2015. This ship was only on the edge of the sailing route to the ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge. This has clearly shown that take-off routes are particularly vulnerable to incidents. That is why we always take the necessary precautions and have taken the necessary precautions when drawing up the Marine Plan in our country. We provide that Belgian ports can always be reached in two ways. Such double approach routes can prevent most of the blockades at sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your largely enlightening answers. You referred to the Flemish ports, which is of course a Flemish competence and rests with your colleague and party colleague, Mrs Peeters. It has not been so generous in giving figures to a colleague on the spot, but I cannot throw that stone at you, that is entirely for information. I would also like to address Mr Vindevoghel, who rightly points out that a blockade like the Suez Canal exposes the sensitivity of the world economy, and then the capitalist part of it. Let it be the dependence of communist China which is once again being exposed there. But by the way, I don't have to explain that to you. Finally, I would like to mention that I will question your colleague, Mr Wilmès, and perhaps reply that there have been some diplomatic points which were not very clear in communication. You have just given me your word, who am I to say that, according to the services, it was immediately clear that the blockade could last for a long time to a very long time. The competent Egyptian minister said about 24 hours after the crash through various diplomatic channels that the ship had been detached. I have here proof of the specialist press, a magazine from our neighbouring countries. I will ask Minister Wilmès what went wrong there in communication and who may have lied there, for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u6	Minister, with the plan for sustainable shipping, the Belgian Government intends to guide shipowners towards a greener, CO2 free and digital future. Ideally, measures to reduce emissions should also reduce underwater noise. In a study commissioned by the Marine Environment department of the FPS Public Health TNO investigated the possibilities to reduce both the emissions and the underwater noise of the shipping fleet of the Belgian shipping companies. In that separate study, TNO examined the potential of a scenario of slow steaming for the North Sea region, which would limit the maximum speed of ships, with the aim of reducing emissions and underwater noise. Minister, how do you intend to proceed with the findings of the study, in cooperation with the sector, international partners and NGOs? What could be the ambitions and concrete measures for underwater noise? How do you plan to reduce CO2 emissions from the sector by 55% by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u7	Mr Ravyts, you asked, first of all, how we intend to proceed with this. The research to which you refer is a joint initiative of the Marine Environment Service, the Directorate-General for Shipping and the Belgian Redersvereniging. The research was carried out by the TNO study firm and the results were presented to two non-governmental organisations, OceanCare and the International Fund for Animal Welfare. In doing so, I immediately indicate that the results of the study are borne by both industry and NGOs and public authorities. This is therefore an important first step in addressing the problem of underwater noise. It is certainly the intention to create awareness. The organisation of the webinar, in cooperation with Canada, shows that we have not missed our start. There were over 200 participants from all over the world, which proves that the subject is definitely alive. Of course, we will not stop there. Firstly, we have now also submitted the studies to the International Maritime Organisation. Belgium also supports the request to discuss the problem of underwater noise in the Marine Environment Protection Committee, the so-called MEPC 76. This will enable work to be done on the adaptation of the applicable guidelines and to detect further steps to reduce underwater noise at international level. Secondly, we continue to work closely with Canada. Later this year there will also be a Canadian event where we will discuss the issue. Thirdly, our country is part of the Blue Leaders, which aim to protect 30% of the oceans by 2030. In that network we will address the problem of underwater noise. Negotiations are under way on the BBNJ Convention, Biological Diversity of Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction, and we will put that on the table there too. In OSPAR, Belgium will also press for a regional action plan on underwater noise monitoring. This approach is part of our strategy for the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. We will strive at European level to establish a threshold for both continuous and acute (or impulsive) underwater noise. The mooring for a windmill park involves impulsive underwater noise; continuous background noise is caused by ships. You also refer to the plan for sustainable shipping. Of course, we continue to work with the Belgian shipowners to come up with joint solutions that, in addition to reducing emissions, also result in the reduction of underwater noise. You also asked what my ambitions and concrete measures are. It is my ambition to raise awareness among all the actors involved. With the actions I have just outlined, the first steps have already been taken. Once we are aware of this, we must also work on concrete measures. Shipping is an international fact, so we cannot solve the problem alone. However, we can take action against acute and impulsive underwater noise, which is produced mainly by licensed activities. Additional measures to reduce injury will therefore be required in the preparation of the environmental impact assessment. For example, double bubble curtains will be prescribed when mooring poles for the construction of wind farms in order to reduce noise. In addition, I will also consult with Defence under the Marine Strategy Framework Directive in order to see how we can reduce the impact of impulse noise from military activities on marine mammals. It will examine whether the existing measures are adequate or whether we need to take additional measures. As regards your third question on the reduction of CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030, the initial strategy was agreed by the IMO in 2018, which provided for a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 compared to the 2008 values. To this end, measures have already been developed in the short term, such as the introduction of the energy label for ships with categories ranging from A to E, somewhat comparable to the rating of a refrigerator. The aim of the energy labels is to be able to take technical and operational measures to reduce emissions. Ports and other parties will also be better able to assess which ships are better or worse for the environment and adapt to them rather than incentives. It is important, however, that the initial IMO strategy will be reviewed in this legislative period, namely in 2023. Belgium will then plead for an emission reduction of at least 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050 in accordance with the government agreement. The European Commission also wants to be a climate-neutral region with the Green Deal by 2050. For shipping, this translates into a package of measures which are currently being discussed in detail. In any event, Belgium is advocating measures leading to effective emission reductions. However, there is also a segment of ships not covered by that regulation. My services, in particular the Directorate-General for Shipping, have had a study carried out by Transport & Mobility Leuven to see what measures can be taken for these ships to reduce CO2 emissions. The results of the study are expected for the summer. We will publish it. Both Belgian shipowners and Belgian ports have been taking the lead in greening shipping for a long time. An international think tank was already established by Belgian shipowners in 2016 to investigate what technical measures can be taken to effectively reduce ship's emissions. Our shipowners are investing heavily in clean fuels such as LNG, hydrogen and recently ammonia. In the port of Antwerp, the Hydroville, the first passenger ship to operate on hydrogen, has been operating for several years. Work is being done on a towboat on hydrogen. Our ports are also committed to supplying alternative fuels, such as LNG, methanol and hydrogen. They also invest in shore power so that ships at the quay can be supplied with electricity. So, Mr Ravyts, there is a great deal of ambition and also in the field of underwater noise Belgium is taking the lead, as we are doing in other areas for the oceans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. Belgium does indeed play an important role in the various international fora and gremia, including when it comes to underwater noise. For me, this is closely linked to biodiversity in international waters. I am not talking about the acute impulsive underwater noises, and it is a problem worldwide, and it is a good thing that you are doing so. Thank you for your answer on CO2 emissions. A policy in this area will have to take shape at the International Maritime Organisation. I would also like to thank you for the study of Transport & Mobility Leuven. I continue to monitor your activities in relation to the North Sea; I am pleased with your answer, which I can continue to work on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u9	Minister, in a recent joint communication from five UN organisations, including WHO, IMO and ILO, the Member States were called upon to proceed quickly with corona vaccination, in this case of course also for seafarers. In no uncertain terms, Member States were urged to encourage their relevant authorities to adopt a coordinated and, above all, urgent approach. It is clear that seafarers and therefore their health are crucial to get through this crisis. Their work was crucial to this crisis for our economy, but it will certainly be so after this crisis to get through this crisis. Did you take note of this call for urgent vaccination of seafarers? If so, by which channel did you receive this call and when? What action have you taken or will you take and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u10	Minister, seafarers often work in difficult conditions. They don't come home every night and sometimes they're gone for months. Fishermen are also gone for weeks. These people are therefore not easy to plan in a normal vaccination system. It is also people who are used to being vaccinated because otherwise they do not enter certain countries. Not many sailors are reluctant to accept the corona vaccine either. Practically it is not so easy because they cannot just move. It would be an ideal scenario for them to receive Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, requiring only one shot. We have ordered 5 million doses of Johnson and Johnson. How is the vaccination rate of Belgian seafarers today? What is your view on the campaign for seafarers? Will seafarers be given priority in this campaign? If so, when can they be vaccinated on board or should they effectively go to a vaccination centre? Can the Belgian sailors also be vaccinated abroad? Are foreign seafarers welcome in Belgian seaports? Can they also be vaccinated in Belgium? These sailors, of course, have a very unpredictable agenda, hence the idea I just launched. Would it be a good idea to use the Johnson & Johnson vaccine for that group so that they only have to be pricked once, not twice? Organisationally, that is not such an easy thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u11	Mr De Spiegeleer, I have, of course, taken note of the joint call through the Directorate-General for Shipping, which delivered the joint statement to me and my staff after the publication. The fate of seafarers is a constant focus for me too. They play an essential role, and we have just heard it in the debate on the Suez Canal in the supply of our country, often in difficult circumstances, especially now in the corona crisis. My predecessor and I have taken the following actions. We were one of the first countries to have designated seafarers as key workers. This took place on 7 July 2020 and was communicated to the International Maritime Organisation. On 21 September 2020, during the second special session of the Maritime Safety Committee, a resolution was adopted to facilitate crew changes and access to healthcare. That was supported by Belgium. In April 2021, for the Special Tripartite Committee of the Maritime Labour Convention within the International Labour Organisation, we agreed to the priority vaccination of seafarers as key workers. On 23 April, the trade unions and employers of the Member States of the International Labour Organisation adopted a resolution calling for priority vaccination of seafarers. In Belgium, I asked the Directorate-General for Shipping to make the necessary arrangements with all relevant federal and Flemish services and other regional services to facilitate crew changes in our ports. At the same time, guidelines were also drawn up on how to deal with potential corona contamination on board ships calling at our ports. At the beginning of May, the issue of the vaccination of seafarers will also be discussed at the Maritime Safety Committee meeting. The Member States will consult there with a view to adopting a resolution on this matter. These are intentions, but the decisions we make are more important. I can tell you that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health in which I participated is quite exceptional, because a Minister of Justice does not normally participate in this decision on 22 April to vaccinate Belgian seafarers immediately, because they belong to the category of closed collections, similar to a residential care centre, for example. With this decision, Belgium is one of the first and perhaps even the very first countries in Europe to give the green light to the vaccination of seafarers. So we are once again playing a leading role in the protection of seafarers. We hope that many countries will follow us. This call was taken up in the international press in the Financial Times of shipping, in particular TradeWinds. That brings me to your questions, Mrs Vindevoghel. How's the vaccination rate coming? A distinction must be made between seafarers of Belgian nationality sailing on foreign flag vessels and Belgian seafarers registered in the Auxiliaries and Voorzorgskas for Seafarers. These are nationals or persons who are dominated in Belgium or EU nationals employed on board ships flying the Belgian flag. The decision of the IMC relates only to the last category. Your second question, what is the vision? I am, of course, satisfied with the decision that has been given my full support. Navigators are essential for the supply of our country. They often work in very difficult conditions and are subject to restrictions imposed by other countries in the fight against corona. A stay that lasts longer than planned not only causes a psychological and physical burden but can also have an impact on the safety of the ship. It is therefore important for seafarers to be able to go to ports without hindrance in order to achieve crew changes. Thirdly, how will this happen in practice? This week, the Task Force Vaccination, led by Mr Dirk Ramaekers, will give its opinion on the vaccination strategy developed by DG Scheepvaart in collaboration with the Belgian Redersvereniging. The proposal now before us will allow seafarers to be vaccinated in two medical centres for seafarers recognised by our services, in Antwerp and Zeebrugge. Can Belgian seafarers also be vaccinated abroad? Belgian sailors are not supposed to be vaccinated abroad. The foreign seafarers are indeed welcome in our seaports which play an important role in the crew changes. My services have drawn up the necessary guidelines for this in consultation with the federal and Flemish services. Can foreign seafarers be vaccinated here too? No, the vaccination strategy focuses only on Belgian seafarers. You asked a question about Johnson and Johnson. What vaccine the seafarers will be vaccinated with is not yet known. This is the task of the Task Force on Vaccination, under the expert guidance of Mr Ramaekers, to take the necessary decisions in this area. I'm totally relying on him. Finally, you can see that we have not left the seafarers in the cold. You can trust that my services and staff will continue to monitor their health and well-being closely, as they have always done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. You are right to make the comparison with the case of the crew changes in July of last year. This is indeed corona-related. We'll follow up on this. You rightly said that vaccination is important for seafarers and compared them with the elderly in our homes and care centres. For a moment I thought you would compare the seafarers with another important group in your policy area: the detainees. I have not escaped the fact that you and your services do not underestimate the importance of this vaccination and we are following this with hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u13	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that the vaccination of seafarers is being carried out quickly. I would have liked it if the people of foreign shipping could also make use of it. I think that is a question of international solidarity. I have another suggestion regarding Johnson and Johnson. That vaccine will be used in Brussels for people who need to be vaccinated at home, so that only one visit is required. Perhaps that is the easiest thing for seafarers, because it is difficult to plan their vaccination when they are away for months. I certainly welcome the fact that vaccination of these staff is being carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u14	Mr President, Minister, as you repeatedly stated in your policy paper and in your press releases, you had the ambition, and hopefully you still have the ambition, to develop a regulatory framework by the summer of this year to create a level playing field for the innovative industry that is autonomous shipping. There are several Flemish companies that are already investing in this technology, and they are already relatively far away. At the moment, you are giving the tests ad hoc permission, but it is of course important to create a permanent legal framework for this and to give the pioneering role of Flanders and Belgium an extra boost. Hence my questions, or especially my follow-up questions. What's the status? Do you still have the summer of 2021 as a realistic feasibility period? Which other relevant authorities, trade unions or civil society organisations have you already sat at the table on this issue and its objectives? Does such consultation take place on a regular basis? Who's taking the lead in that? Is that from civil society, or is that from yourself, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u15	Mr President, Mr De Spiegeleer, the draft royal decree was drawn up in consultation with the sector, and it was submitted to the Regions for their opinion. On 23 April 2021, a few days ago, the draft royal decree was forwarded to the Council of State for advice. Of course, I still believe that the summer as a planned deadline is feasible. You also asked which other relevant authorities, organisations I was already with. For a detailed arrangement, we have had consultations with both the companies developing unmanned vessels and with the sector organisations to which they are affiliated. I'm thinking Agoria, VOKA and The Blue Cluster. The Koninklijke Belgische Redersvereniging was also involved. We are currently looking at organising a webinar in June 2021, on which we want to highlight both the regulation, for which Belgium is a global leader, but also our Belgian companies. We have framed this in our campaign for the executive elections of the transmaritime organisation. This will therefore be followed internationally. Mr President, I propose that I give an invitation to the committee so that anyone who wishes can register.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u17	Mr Minister, at national level we are continuing to work on the impact of the monitoring of the low emission zone in the North Sea. Since 2015, Belgium has been part of SECA, an area where there are stricter standards for sulphur emissions from ships than in the rest of the world. Since 1 January 2021, we are also part of NECA, a zone in which nitrogen emissions must also be reduced. Belgium, as the only country in the world to which I am proud, uses a sniffer aircraft to monitor this regulation. Shipping accounts for about 3% of CO2 emissions and 18% of sulphur emissions. That is why we now also have a low emission zone in the North Sea, but it is not as strictly controlled as the low emission zones in Ghent and Antwerp. Those who pass in Ghent or Antwerp and are not in order will immediately receive a fine. This is not the case for shipping. Your predecessor, Mr De Backer, wanted to equip the windmills off our coast with sensors to detect polluting ships and thus guarantee the low emission zone in the North Sea. The windmills could, as it were, smell the most polluting ships, so that any violation can be punished. In your policy statement you stated that Belgium is the only country that uses the sniffer plane, which may be good, but in other countries control mechanisms have been developed. For example, the Netherlands has sensors at the windmills in the sea and poles with sensors in the ports to control the ships. Mr Minister, is it true that the sniffer plane performs less flying hours than planned? If so, how much exactly? Has work been done on the project announced by Mr De Backer, and if so, what progress has it made? Will controls on pollution caused by sea-going vessels be increased by means of fixed measuring points at windmills in the sea and in our ports? Can the sniffer aircraft also be used over land, for example to control large industrial installations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u18	Mrs Vindevoghel, in 2020 there was indeed only 158 hours above the North Sea compared to 246, 225 and 222 hours respectively in 2019, 2018 and 2017. The reduction in flight hours is entirely due to the measures taken to combat the corona epidemic. In concrete terms, the corona pandemic allowed only one scientific operator to be present on the plane, while normally two would be needed to carry out that task completely. Thanks to a comprehensive COOVID-19 switching plan, the aircraft managed to perform 75% of the scheduled hours, which was a very good thing. The task package is very diverse, such as maritime surveillance, ship pollution detection, air pollution, deployment in maritime accidents, monitoring missions, fisheries control flights and, in general, wider maritime surveillance within the framework of the Belgian Coast Guard. In 2020, 494 ships were checked. In 2019, of course, there were more, namely 1,241 and 1,139 in 2018. In 2017, it was about 870 ships. In 2021, the priority for compensation shall return to the monitoring of gaseous ship emissions. The initiative announced by my predecessor, which is also included in my policy paper, is indeed being implemented. For example, I recently signed the contract to design and purchase the sensor for the windmills. The assembly will take place in 2021. Installation on the windmills will take place in 2022. The intention is indeed to use the sensor to measure the emissions of ships on their way to Belgian ports. If the project proves successful, I will see if it can also be extended, so that sensors can also be placed in the Princess Elisabeth zone, so that the ships crossing the North Sea can also be controlled. About the sensors that were placed in the Netherlands, I only know about a test project in the port of Rotterdam. The project was apparently terminated prematurely due to meteorological conditions. When the wind was wrong, emissions could not be measured. However, the Netherlands shows strong interest in our sniffer aircraft. I would like to refer to the fact that in 2019 and 2018, on behalf of the Dutch government, the Belgian sniffer aircraft monitored sulphur emissions from ships in Dutch waters for 35 and 25 hours respectively. The contract was extended until 2021, where the MUMM aircraft will again fly 35 sniffer hours over the Dutch North Sea region. As far as your third question is concerned, the use of sniffer aircraft to control industrial organisations on land is, in principle, possible to measure both sulphur and nitrogen emissions from industrial plants. However, such flights will depend on the permission to fly low over the installations, which is not so obvious, less evident than for windmills. Moreover, on or above-country controls are not part of MUMM's tasks. It concerns a competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that you will also develop other systems in addition to the control by the sniffer aircraft. As I said in my introduction, there is still a lot of pollution, so it is good that we continue to work on this. I hope that we can extend the control on land as well. That would not be a bad thing to measure emissions from certain large industrial plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u20	Mr President, Minister, since the corona crisis many people have apparently discovered pleasure sailing as an outdoor activity. The number of people doing pleasure cruises is increasing enormously. As a result, the demand for pleasure boat licences has also increased sharply. In some cases, a licence will be mandatory for recreational craft at sea from 2022 onwards. As a result, there is more demand for these boatmasters' certificates. As a result, the federal examination centres are no longer able to meet the demand and they are already fully booked until July. Can the examination centres for boatmasters still meet the demand? Can the capacity be increased so that anyone who wishes to take an exam can do so within the month? Will anyone who has to obtain a mandatory license for 2022 for private use at sea be able to do so in the course of 2021? Can you guarantee that? Do you know about how many recreational craft there are in Belgium today? At the moment there is rather a shortage of berths for those recreational craft. Do you even have the authority to create berths and moorings for houseboats? After all, there is a great deal of demand for this too. How can we meet this rising demand? Is there a limit on pleasure sailing in Belgium? If so, how high is it? Do our inland waterways have sufficient capacity to meet both an increasing demand for pleasure shipping and an increasing demand for economic inland waterway transport? Doesn't one put the other in danger?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the Maritime DG has four examination centres located in Brussels, Antwerp, Ostend and Namur. Because of the measures taken in the fight against corona, these centres were closed for a while. At the beginning of this year I asked my services to plan extra exam days to get rid of the waiting lists. As a result, 152 test locations were planned in 2021. In 2019 198 days were planned for the whole year. So we've been able to do a serious gear. However, I note that many yachtsmen wish to obtain their licences before 1 July 2021, because they do not have to carry out practical tests in this way. For example, in August there are still free places to take exams. However, the introduction of these practical tests has been known for a long time. It was postponed at the request of the sector from 1 January 2021 to 1 July 2021. We are considering whether it is possible at present to expand the current capacity further. Secondly, it is true that from 1 January 2022 a licence will be required for private use at sea. This obligation is equivalent to inland navigation regulations and applies only to recreational craft, longer than 15 metres or a motor boat capable of sailing more than 20 km/h. It is absolutely intended to allow any pleasure boater covered by the obligation to participate in the examination in 2021. As I said, there are still free places for participation in the test in August. The large influx at the moment is clearly due to the expiry of the transitional regime on 1 July 2021. This transitional arrangement was laid down in a Royal Decree of 28 June 2019 on pleasure boating. Thirdly, there are currently about 30,000 motor boats and 10,000 sailboats registered in our country. However, this does not mean that all these recreational craft are moored in Belgium. My services do not have the number of recreational craft, present in Belgium, registered under foreign flag. I therefore have no idea of any shortage of berths. On your questions four and five, creating additional berths is something that marinas should take on, in consultation with the Flemish government. The capacity on inland waterways is not the responsibility of the North Sea Minister, but also of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic451x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
