ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-03.ana.ud366e104	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The oil price falls from about $110 per barrel in the summer of 2014 to less than $45 per barrel in the summer of 2016. The revenue and revenue of the oil industry and the tax revenue of the country have fallen. This results in lower investment and employment in petroleum-related industries, which in turn slows down the growth of the mainland economy. GDP for mainland Norway increased by 1.1 pst. in 2015. In 2015, the value creation in the petroleum sector amounted to 17 pst. of Norway's GDP, and the country's net cash flow from oil business was 218 billion. kr. The fall in the oil price is hitting South and West hard. The government has supported this activity in the region, including: through means for maintenance and investment. Economic policy is now giving strong impetus to the Norwegian economy. Norway Bank has lowered its interest rate to a high level. At the beginning of September, the Norwegian krona was almost 15 pst. weaker than before the oil price drop. Together with a moderate payroll, it is more competitive. Financial policy is also conducive to increased demand. In the revised national budget 2016, the government provided a use of oil and fund income of 205.6 billion. kr. There's a significant increase from the previous year, which means keeping the growth up for a time that's required. The level is equal to 2.8 pst. by State pension funds abroad at the beginning of 2016 and are thus well below the 4 pst guideline. The unemployment rate, measured by the Labour Force Survey of the Central Bureau of Statistics, AKU, was 5.0 pst. in July, compared with 4.3 pst. in July 2015. The registered unemployment rate has fallen slightly in 2016 and was 2.9 pst. in September, adjusted for seasonal variations. A broad majority of the Stortinget have joined the main features of the government's proposal for tax reform. Tax reform will make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and contribute to sustainable business conditions. The Green Tax Commission presented its statement in December 2015. In line with the 2016 budget deal, there is a cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the follow-up. The Productivity Commission presented its final report in February. The report contains proposals that can increase productivity growth in research and innovation, the labour market and the public sector. The state of the Kingdom is influenced by developments beyond the borders of Norway. Norway is taking an active part in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention of elected extremism. The government has strengthened Norway's efforts in the coalition against ISIL. Military personnel shall operate capacity building of Iraqi security forces and, besides training, advice and operational support to local groups in Syria. Norway has continued its contribution to the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan in 2016. Norway has also increased its contribution to UN peacekeeping operations, including: with a military transport aircraft in Mali. The annexation of the Crimea Peninsula and the conflict in Ukraine still characterise the relationship between Russia and Western countries. At the NATO summit in Warsaw, the Heads of State and Government adopted measures that will strengthen the alliance's capacity for collective defence. Norway has increased its contribution to improve the ability of the alliance to solve its tasks. We don't see any direct military threat in the north. The Government is working to maintain the Arctic as a peaceful and stable region. On 17 June, the government presented a new and ambitious long-term plan for the defence sector which will help strengthen defence capabilities. The government is pursuing an active peace and reconciliation policy and has a number of other policies. It also called for the establishment of a historic peace agreement between the parties in Colombia. In the winter of 2016, Norway contributed to the substitution of Iran’s excess quantities of inflated uranium with natural uranium, enabling the entry into force of the historical nuclear agreement with the country. In 2016, the government increased the total humanitarian effort to nearly 5 billion. kr. Norway took the initiative and co-organised the Syrian donor conference in London, which resulted in a historically high contribution. The new Agreement on the EEA Financial Mechanisms for the period 2014-2021 was signed in May. In order to safeguard central Norwegian interests, the government will follow the process between the EU and the United Kingdom closely after the British referendum. The year 2015 was a turning point for global climate cooperation. The countries of the world are gathering for a new international treaty. The Paris Agreement gives direction to work to prevent dangerous global warming. A dialogue has been launched with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 climate change targets. In 2015, Norway received a total of 31,145 asylum seekers, the highest number ever. Of these, 5,297 were single minors. Several countries introduced border controls and the government introduced temporary border controls in November 2015. Then the number of asylum seekers went down to Norway. The number of asylum seekers who have come to Norway so far in 2016 is the lowest since 1997. In 2015, the police transported 7 800 people without legal delay. The municipalities busied over 11 300 refugees in 2015. This is the highest build-up number ever. The government's integration policy, which was submitted to the Stortinget in May 2016, is based on the rapid entry into operation of those who are rescinded. Each individual must be met with an expectation of high self-sufficiency. Integration is an interaction between many parties – countries, municipalities, employers and businesses and voluntary organisations. The country around has been working to find good solutions for new and stronger municipalities. On 1 October, the government accepted recommendations from the statesmen. The majority has endorsed the government's proposal for a new income system for municipalities from 2017. Overarching objectives of the system is an equivalent service provision across the country. The government has streamlined and simplified legislation on planning and construction axis processes. The government has strengthened its commitment to industrial research and innovation. In addition, the government has presented an ambitious founding plan, which has allowed 400 million. For start-up schemes. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. In 2015, seafood was exported from Norway to a value of 74,5 billion. kr. Simplifications implemented, including: digitisation of public services and new public procurement legislation contribute to saving business. In March, the government presented a report on foster care. The message theme is better monitoring of children, multiple foster homes in close families and networks and better follow-up of foster families. In April, the government presented a family message that brings up the family as the basic unit, the building block and the community's value broker. The government follows up the strategy Children living in poverty, presented in May 2015. Never has there been any further interest in the quality of kindergarten. Quality measures have increased by 120 million. kr. The government follows up the Teacher Lift and spends about 1.2 billion. SEK on further training in 2016. The government is also working to introduce new, five-year master-level elementary school teacher training from 2017. Together with a number of other measures, this gives rise to a rise for the teacher profession. The Government's proposal for changes to the Church Law to transform the Norwegian Church into an independent legal entity is adopted and enters into force on 1 January 2017. Following the accession of Stortinget, an incentive scheme for film and television productions was introduced on 1 January. The scheme shall contribute to increased experience and knowledge, stimulate growth and increase international cooperation in the film industry. The government will equip Norway with an efficient and modern transport system. Work on reforming the road and rail sectors has continued in 2016. Increased road safety is a priority. The government is continuing its work on a more competitive Norwegian agriculture. Agriculturally determined measures have been taken to facilitate increased food production. The government is further working on strengthening and renewing the Norwegian police and implementing the near-police reform. The government has submitted an escalating plan for criminal services. Furthermore, the government has built new prison sites and rented 242 prison sites in the Netherlands to increase capacity. On 1 December 2015, it was noted that the new grid is nationwide and is used in Norway as a whole. This is a great boost to social security. There's a significant stake in health services. In November 2015, for the first time, the Stortinget presented a national plan for the development of hospitals. In 2015, the hospital had a positive result of 2.7 billion. kr, approximately the same as the previous year. About 1.9 million patients received treatment in somatic hospitals in 2015, an increase of 2.5 pst. from the previous year. The government introduced 28 cycle packages for cancer in 2015. The package process provides guidance and security for patients and family members. The current external balance surplus was 270 billion. kr in 2015, at least SEK 76 billion. kr from 2014. The average salary growth from 2014 to 2015 was 2.8 pst. This year's wage settlement points towards lower wage growth. Wages and salaries moderation helps to mitigate the negative effects of lower demand from oil industry on employment and unemployment. Consumer prices were 3.5 pst. higher in January to July this year than in the same period last year. Sickness absence has been relatively stable in recent years, and levels are among the lowest since the IA agreement was concluded. One of the objectives of the IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. from 2001. The sick absence in the fourth quarter of 2014, which is the last comparable observation before a conversion to the statistical basis, was 11.5 pst. lower than in the second quarter of 2001, adjusted for seasonal variations. Other sizes of absenteeism indicate that there have been no significant changes in absenteeism in 2015. In 2016, there is now a slightly lower absence than in the previous year. Government pension funds had a combined market value at the end of the first half of 2016 of SEK 7,376 billion. kr, a reduction of 297 billion. kr from entry to 2016. The fluctuations in financial markets have been significant over this period. The value of the fund may vary greatly in the coming years. Long-term and good management helps to ensure that the revenues from petroleum resources can benefit both current and future generations. The treatment of the State pension fund message shows that there is a broad political deal about the management of our common savings funds. It is important, especially when there is a disturbance in the markets. The population in Norway continued to grow in 2015, but at a lower rate than in the years before. Net immigration went down clearly last year, but still at a high level. In 2015, the population increased by about 48 000 people, and at the lower end of two thirds of the population was caused by net immigration. The strong increase in the instigation of asylum seekers in the second half of the year is largely reflected in numbers, since asylum seekers are only registered as immigrants when they may be given leave of residence. There is still a high growth in housing prices. In August, housing prices were on average 9.1 pst. higher than last year's August. Household liabilities are increasing faster than income. This increases the risk of financial imbalances and setbacks in the Norwegian economy. Last year the government put forward a strategy for the housing market with measures for more sustainable development. According to the Finansinspektoret, residential loans with a loan ratio greater than 85 pst. down from 10 to 7 pst. from autumn 2014 to autumn 2015. The value of the state's direct ownership of Oslo Børs was 523 billion. kr at the end of 2015. At the same time, the value of the state was its part of the book value of non-listed companies in which the state has commercial objectives with ownership, 121 billion. kr. For the 2015 accounting year, the state received about 30 billion. kr in dividends from the companies in which the country has a direct ownership interest, nearly 6 billion. kr less than 2014. The sea is the common denominator of many of Norway's most important industries, measured in value creation. Norway is at the tip of the world in many areas of shipping and maritime industry, petroleum and energy, and fisheries and aquaculture. In 2014, marine industries totaled over 250,000 jobs and contributed about 850 billion. kr in value creation. That equals about 40 pst. of the total value creation in business. The government has been working on a maritime strategy and a strong communication on the role of the sea in foreign and development policy. The sea is becoming increasingly prominent internationally, both as a source of food and value creation and as a result of increasing environmental challenges. During the third Our Ocean Conference, the United States, Norway and a number of other countries presented measures in areas such as resilient fishing, the reduction of sea pollution and the protection of marine areas. Wage settlement in 2016 was a main concern. Contract audits were mainly resolved through negotiations and mediation. The number of conflicts was low. Most people in Norway work under good working conditions, but in some parts of Norwegian working life there are challenges related to social dumping and the crime of working life. The government is continuing to work to make it harder for unprofessional enterprises to operate in the construction industry. With effect from 1 January 2016, strengthened requirements for centrally approved companies were introduced. Undertakings can also make their seriousness visible by voluntarily showing their insurances and so on. The government is working for a serious and decent working life and continues its efforts to combat crime at work through joint authority efforts, cooperation with the social partners and further follow-up to the strategy against crime at work. In the General Communication on Labour and Welfare Management, the Government has proposed to strengthen and further develop the services of employers, job seekers and people with reduced working capacity for more people to come to work. The Nav offices shall have more room for action and be able to choose whether some services should be purchased or go on their own. Greater emphasis shall be placed on the quality and performance of labour market measures than on the number of action areas. The government has submitted to the hearing proposals for changes to social security legislation in view of the high number of asylum seekers in 2015. In addition, the government has sent a hearing proposal for a number of changes to the work clearance money legislation. The aim is to get more people working through a shorter social welfare cycle with closer follow-up and to increase the combination with partial work. A selection of experts is being set up to review the policy on tools. The selection shall deliver its report at the end of 2016/2017. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget decided on 11 December 2015 to increase the basic pension for married and co-operative pensioners. At the same time, the size decided to increase the minimum level of pensions to single-age pensioners. The government prioritises activities that promote work, activity and conversion. As part of the enhanced employment package, the level of labour market measures was strengthened by around 4,000 places. Youth is a priority in the allocation of labour market measures. The level of action was further strengthened in the revised national budget for 2016. Changes were made to the legislation on permitting companies to have a greater chance of holding labour if they are faced with a temporary period of lack of employment. In addition, the government has, among other things, to allow more people to take part in education while they receive daily money, and to increase the possibility that people can receive daily money while they establish their own business. Norway is taking an active part in its efforts to ward off new terrorist attacks. The government has increased cross-border cooperation, making it easier to share important information. UN Security Council Resolution 2249 obliges all Member States to assess whether they can strengthen their efforts in the fight against ISIL in Iraq and Syria. ISIL is under pressure both in Iraq and Syria, and it is crucial that this pressure is sustained and strengthened. Over the past year, Norway has worked actively to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the fight against elected extremism. NATO assumes increased responsibility for stability and capacity building in the vicinity of the alliance. This is crucial to strengthen our own security and to show solidarity with allies threatened by unstable developments in the Middle East and North Africa. The government is based on a long-term perspective in its peace and reconciliation policy and supports local, regional and international measures to create lasting policy solutions. No particular conflict has simple solutions. Alleviation of symptoms is not sufficient. We must also help to change the underlying causes. The government has actively implemented the obligations of the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. Norway has also been actively involved in the fight against nuclear terrorism. In connection with the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, Norway is launching an initiative to phase out the use of high-exploited uranium in the civil sector. Norway’s nuclear security cooperation with both Russia and Ukraine constitutes important non-proliferation measures. The government emphasises respect for human rights as a foreign policy objective and as a means of achieving sustainable development and security. Experience has shown that developments are fading where democracy and human rights are set aside. Norway has been challenging the international community in the last year when it comes to strengthening the position of human rights defenders and protecting them. Here Norway achieved clear pluralities for important decisions both in the UN General Assembly and in the UN Human Rights Council. These must now be started. During the Syrian donor conference in London, Norway announced a contribution of 2.4 billion. SEK in 2016 and for 10 billion. kr over 4 years. With this contribution, Norway is the fifth largest donor country in Syria this year. Assistance is important, but at the same time forms a limited part of international capital flows. It must therefore be better used to trigger another and more significant financing for development purposes. In many traditional co-operation countries, the government supports a transition from assistance to a partnership based on trade, investment and cooperation in technology, research and culture. The assistance has been made more results-oriented and better tools for analysis and risk assessment have been developed. The number of countries accepting Norwegian bilateral funds is reduced. The same applies to the number of active contracts, reduced from 6 118 on 1 June 2015 to 4,483 on 1 August 2016. The Prime Minister is one of the leaders of the UN Secretary-General's propellant group for the Bearer Force Measurements. Norway is working to achieve goals at home and contribute to the common global goals of eradicating extreme poverty and achieving sustainable development. The Global Commission for the Financing of Education, for which Norway has taken the initiative, delivered its recommendations in September. Norway has been a driver of both the Safe Schools initiative and the strengthening of funding for training in crisis and conflict. Together with Germany and Ghana, Norway has taken the initiative to learn the world about the ebola outbreak in West Africa and has taken action to prevent and stop outbreaks early. Norway has been in the forefront when it comes to establishing a new global coalition to develop and produce new vaccines that can prevent future epidemics and pandemics. The Green Climate Fund will be a central channel for financing emissions reductions and climate adaptation in developing countries over the coming years. Norway has announced NOK 1,6 billion for a four-year period and made the first payment in 2015. Norway is a driver of increased international attention and cooperation on north-eastern issues. This is crucial for a good balance between sustainable use and protection in the Arctic. The eight Arctic states created a coastguard cooperation in 2015. The government wants to pursue further cooperation with Russia in the field of mutual bilateral interest. The government secures Norway's long tradition of polarization. She is working to ensure that research and interests in the north are increasingly linked to corresponding interests in the south, both to create synergies and to mark Norway as polarisation with interests in the north and south. The government is working for multilateral trade agreements through the WTO to create a stable framework and a level playing field globally. Through EFTA, we have concluded free trade agreements with Georgia and the Philippines for the last year. Norway is playing an active role in facilitating the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Nairobi in 2015. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, complemented by the EEA and EFTA Free Trade Agreements, constitutes the beneficiary of an offensive free trade policy in line with Norway’s interests. The majority agreed on 13 June to allow Norway to join the EU’s financial supervision through the EEA Agreement. Since the decision constituted a transfer of authority, three-quarters of the majority were required under Grundlova § 115. The current security policy situation has led to closer cooperation between the Nordic countries in the framework of Nordic defence cooperation, NORDEFCO. The Nordic and Baltic countries have launched cooperation on support for defence sector reform in NATO's partner countries, including the United States and Japan. training and training personnel in Georgia. As part of the permanent military activity, it is an extensive training and exercise activity in the north. It's an increasing interest from allies to practice and train in our region. This is in line with Norwegian security policy priorities and encourages the visibility of allied solidarity in our neighbourhoods. In June, the Government-emerging Afghanistan Committee presented the preparation of Norway’s gathering of civil and military efforts in Afghanistan. The government has strengthened its commitment to the personnel and competences of the defence sector. On 1 January 2016, the new military arrangements with the introduction of specialist corps entered into force. In the summer, the first year of schooling, which was subject to protection obligations for both women and men, was called up and started to serve. These are two historical and important reforms that also help to strengthen the operational capability of the Defence. Tropical forest emissions are covered by the new climate regime. The decision strengthens global efforts to reduce forest emissions and confirms what the forest has to say to achieve the climate target. Norwegian efforts through the Climate and Forest Initiative have been an important driving force behind the Paris decision. During the climate summit, the government announced that the rainforest initiative would be extended to 2030. The United Kingdom and Germany are increasing their contribution to reducing emissions from tropical forests, including as a result of cooperation with Norway. In December 2015, the government presented a notice of natural disasters. The lack of nature gives us access to everything from food and medicine to building materials and good experiences. The cancellation message will help us to take care of nature, to the delight of current and future generations. In March 2016, the government issued a big message on a new stock target for wolves and wolvesone. The amendments Stortinget adopted, entered into force in June 2016. In March 2016, the government presented a news report on outdoor life. The message will be processed in the autumn of 2016. Outdoor life is a source of better health and higher quality of life. The government will therefore give priority to outdoor life in the community. The government is working for a more efficient and user-oriented public sector. The removal of time thieves, which may be out-of-date legislation, unnecessary reporting or heavy-duty procedures, is part of this and many measures have been implemented. Report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, Digital Agenda for Norway, presents ICT policy to the government. The Communication is also about how ICT can facilitate innovation and competitiveness in business, and it presents the national electronic communications plan, the Eco-Plan. For the first time, a common document outlines the direction of digital society development and how to ensure the development of the necessary infrastructure for data-based workplaces in Norway. The Digitalisation Council is established from 2016 to help state enterprises succeed in digitisation projects and to learn from each other. From 2016, a new co-financing scheme for State digitisation projects has been established. This is an incentive to increase the rate of digitisation. The public sector publishes 40 million letters each year that can be digitised. This can in the long run save 400 million. kr i porto, better environment and provide greater security. In June 2016, over 960,000 inhabitants had a digital mailbox, and in the first half of 2016 it was sent out approx. 1.3 million letters to digital mailboxes. More than 200 public enterprises are sending mail digitally as of June 2016. In planning and construction processes, digital planning data, application and processing tools and a regulatory framework that supports digitisation lead to increased value creation and productivity, faster building and better quality of what is built. The House Bank digitises the application and processing systems for support, loans and grants. Users get better services, and the House Bank itself saves time. Through the Programme for Better Governance and Leadership in the State, a concrete improvement work has been undertaken, especially directed towards senior managers. The core of the programme is to build a stronger culture of interaction, results and implementation. In 2016, the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, has established a joint purchasing centre for government agencies. Central purchasing agreements shall provide simpler and more efficient purchasing processes and better and more favourable procurement. The majority has decided that a regional reform should be carried out. The government is working on the follow-up. Major populist regions can take a clear responsibility for social development based on their own possibilities and advantages. Major regions provide a basis for better administrative interaction. In rural and regional policy, the government places emphasis on value creation as an important basis for building and development. Better transport solutions and good business development conditions will contribute to a positive development in all regions. A coordinated housing, land and transport policy is important in order to achieve the environmental objectives of the government. Urban environment agreements are being worked on in the four major urban areas, where the state will fund 50 pst. of large public infrastructure projects of national interest. It is important that enough housing is built in the important collective nodes. The government is therefore working on entering into urban development agreements in order to comply with the spatial commitments contained in urban environmental agreements. A programme has been launched to give the whole country more accurate terrain and altitude data. It is of great value for climate adaptation work as a knowledge base for preparedness, race and flood protection, for forest and natural resource management and for safe housing. The cod stock in the Barents Sea is still at a high level. Long-term cooperation between the coastal states of Norway and Russia and good climatic conditions are behind the fact that we have the largest cod population in the world. Other stocks are also well managed. Quotas are generally high. The government emphasises the preservation of Norwegian interests in the negotiations on the distribution of some pelagic stocks. The fight against fishing crime and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a high priority of the government. In the autumn of 2015, the government presented a big message with measures to simplify, increase flexibility and promote interaction in the value chain for seafood production. As part of the follow-up to the message, in May 2016 the government brought down an obligation commission to look at the delivery, manufacture and activity obligations of the fishing industry. The government has put in place development concessions to facilitate the development of new technologies and to realise the vision of significant growth in the farming industry. As part of the government's action package for increased employment, a total of 120 million is allowed. kr for the maintenance and upgrading of research vessels at the Marine Research Institute. In addition, marine research has been strengthened further. The government has launched a series of measures to facilitate innovation and transition in the business world. The permissions of the instrument are strongly strengthened, for example: with 350 million. through the government's action package for increased employment. The framework conditions for the tax FUNN scheme have been improved, and the government was included in the budget for 2016,6 billion. kr in tax deduction. The Governing Council, which started in June 2016, is to verify that the impact on business is adequately addressed when proposals for new laws and regulations are made. Global climate and environmental challenges require conversion to more viable production in business. Systems such as the Eco-Technology Scheme are therefore strengthened, and the instrument will focus on the environment and the sustainability of evaluations of applications. The central statistical agency has analysed the innovation impact of selected innovation policy instruments and concludes that the Research Council, Innovation Norway and SkatteFUNN complement each other in a good way. The government is preparing defence plans for the future decommissioning of the Norwegian nuclear reactors at Kjeller and Halden, for fuel management and a new storage solution for nuclear waste. New legislation on public procurement reduces administrative burdens on both the principals and the business community. There is a call for a follow-up of important societal considerations, such as the reduction of work-life crime and climate and environmental concerns. Travel life is important for Norway and is growing. The travel destination company shall facilitate the provision of a whole range of attractive travel life products for Norwegian travel lives. A five-year project to restructure the travel destination companies will now be terminated. In 2015, oil production increased slightly for the second consecutive year, and on average, 1.95 million barrels were produced per day. Gas production in 2015 was record high, amounting to a total of 115 billion Sm3, an increase of 6 billion Sm3 since 2014. Increases are mainly due to increased demand from Europe. 83 fields are in production, and the further eight fields are under construction. The activity level internationally and on a Norwegian base has decreased significantly in the last two years. Fewer new development projects and lower cost and efficiency measures lead to a lower level of investment. The investment grant for 2016 of more than 135 billion. kr is, however, high in a historical perspective. Access to new, attractive search grounds is a prerequisite for making new significant findings and keeping them in the same way as value creation, employment and government revenue in the long term. In the 23rd concession round, the government granted ten new exploitation rights to 13 companies. Three of the permissions are in the newly opened area of the Barents Sea south-east. In the context of the allocation of exploitation rights in predefined areas, TFO, 2015 56 exploitation rights were granted to 36 companies. The concession round this year in the pre-defined areas, TFO 2016, was launched in March. The Ministry of Oil and Energy approved the 2015 plan for the first construction stage in the Johan Sverdrup field – one of the largest industrial projects in Norway in several decades. The project also ensures significant value creation from the petroleum sector in the future and contributes to employment. The government has significantly boosted research and environmentally friendly technology development for the oil and gas industry by increasing the budget to DEMO2000 by 150 million. kr. 2015 was characterized by large excess power and low prices. Power generation was 145 TWh, about 10 TWh higher than the average over the last 10 years. Despite a record high consumption, there was a net export of 14.6 TWh. The annual system price of power was 18.8 kWh, the lowest since the beginning of the 21st century. In 2015, permission was granted for the expansion of 3.7 TWh new renewable energy production, divided by 2 TWh wind power and 1.7 TWh hydropower. In the spring of 2016, the Stortinge will address the paper on energy policy towards 2030. The main message is that security of supply, climate and industrial development must be seen in a context in order to ensure an efficient and climate-friendly energy supply. In this message the government left the basis for continued efforts through Enova. Climate action will be strengthened. Overarching governance and long-term financing shall remain an important element. In spring 2016, Stortinget closed to the government its proposal for changes to the Law on the Acquisition of Waterfalls, etc. The changes strengthen industry's ability to achieve long-term power availability through power take-offs of its own ownership, in agreement with the majority public shareholders of water power companies. The amendments entered into force on 1 July 2016. Based on legislative proposals from the government of late autumn 2015, the Stortinget endorsed several changes to the energy laws in relation to networked electricity. In December 2015, the extreme value of Synne led to damage in many locations in the South West. The revised national budget for 2016 provided funds to avert and reduce further damage. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, is still working on security measures after the flood in the West in the autumn of 2014. The government has strengthened its efforts to prevent flood and tailoring damage. For 2016, it's allowed above 400 million. kr for the purpose. The most effective measure to avoid natural damage is good spatial planning in municipalities. The government has continued its work on CO2 management. An agreement has been drawn up to extend the investment at the Technology Centre in Mongstad. Children who are subject to care failure are entitled to protection. In November 2015, the government launched a legislative selection to modernise and simplify the child protection law. The committee presented its proposal for a new law on 29 September. In April 2016, the government launched attempts in three municipalities to try to increase municipal responsibility for child protection, including the following: greater responsibility for the provision of foetal home. The government has also sent a hearing proposal for changes in the division of responsibilities between state and local authorities in the field of child protection. The aim is to increase multidisciplinary cooperation, prevention and early efforts towards deferred children and families. In November 2015, the government presented a political declaration against hateful expressions. The declaration obligates efforts to suppress expressions of hatred. In the autumn of 2014, the government brings down a selection to assess measures to ensure that basic rights are granted to people with developmental disabilities. The selection presented its vote on 30 September this year. The government will guarantee lesbian, gay, biphil and transhumance rights, contribute to openness and actively counter discrimination. Thus, an action plan against discrimination was presented on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression in June. In order to ensure that children are brought together with both parents and to mitigate parental conflicts that affect their children, the government will make a proposal in September with proposals for changes in children’s lives. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the best for the child by increasing parental responsibility, by strengthening the relationship between the child and both parents, and by preventing the difficulty of getting together. In the autumn of 2015, the government brings down a selection to go through the way in which the public service provider handles matters in which the child and youth have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault or serious care failure. In these days, Norway delivers its fifth and sixth reports on the implementation of Norway's obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. A child’s own report has been prepared with children and young people’s views on how it is to grow up in Norway. The government has given you more possibilities to go to kindergarten. After treatment in Stortinget, the scheme of free core time for families with low income has been extended from 1 August 2016, so that also three-year-olds are included. From the same date, children born in the period 1 September to 31 October have been entitled to a right from the age of one year. The government has a big message to suggest that school subjects be renewed through a more clear prioritisation, deeper learning and better professional progress for students. A new general part of the curriculum is to be developed, so that the broad education project has a clearer place in school life. The government has submitted proposals to strengthen its efforts to combat bullying. It shall be useful for children and young people to say so. Proposals for the obligation of activity for schools to act quickly and effectively in bullying cases and the possibility of periodic penalty payments if the obligation is not fulfilled have been sent to the hearing. A total of 5,600 teachers have been offered further training from the autumn of 2016. Mathematics, English, Norwegian, Sami and sign languages are priorities, but they are also available in a number of other subjects. The government is continuing its work on better career paths for teachers, including: by testing the function of a teacher specialist. The government also continues to make considerable progress towards various forms of development of competence for students in school. As part of the real science strategy of the government, eleven new municipalities gained status as real science municipalities in the spring of 2016. The government has developed a language, reading and writing strategy for kindergarten and school, Language Loops, which is a national strategy to strengthen Norwegian children and elephants’ skills in language, reading and writing. The government is busy ensuring good recruitment for teacher training. At the same time, quality must be increased. The introduction of a stronger character requirement for admission to teacher training must be seen in the light of this. The Storting has now accepted the government's proposal to give elephants at the further level a freer school choice. An overarching objective for the government is that each individual should acquire skills that provide a basis for a stable and lasting relationship with the labour market. In February, the government announced. St. 16, From Exclusion to New Chance — Coordinated efforts for adult learning. The aim is to provide better access to training for adults and a better basis for cooperation between education, integration and labour market authorities. Together with the social partners, the government is developing a national competence policy strategy, NKPS. The government released Prop in June. 139 L for 2015-2016, Act on the recognition of professional qualifications, Professional Qualifications Act, which regulates the recognition of professionals from the EEA State or Switzerland wishing to pursue a regulated profession in Norway. These changes may make it easier for people from the countries concerned to obtain recognition of their professional qualifications. The same will apply to Norwegian citizens who wish to work in another EEA country. In the 2016 government budget, the long-term research and higher education plan was followed up by approximately 885 million. kr. The plan is the main government priority tool. In total, there's 32.7 billion. SEK to R & D over the state budget in 2016 – a real growth of 4.3 pst. from 2015 onwards and part of GDP of 1,04 pst. From 1 January 2016, twelve state universities and colleges merged into four new institutions. At the same time, there have been combinations of student relationships linked to these institutions. Four private institutions have also chosen to merge. The government has made stricter demands on institutions that will become universities, and has also strengthened the requirements for establishing new masters and doctoral programmes. Law on the European Research Infrastructure Consortium, ERIC Law, entered into force on 1 January 2016. The law provides a legal framework for Norwegian participation in European cooperation on research infrastructures. Cooperation on large-scale research infrastructures is an important part of European research cooperation involving Norway through the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, and the European Research Area, ERA. In view of the fact that the Stortinget deals with a new funding system for universities and higher education institutions, the government has continued its work on detailing and implementing the system. In 2015, the first part of the rehabilitation project for the University Museum in Bergen has been completed. A start-up grant was granted to Phase 2 of the project in the State budget for 2016. The newly restored Urbygningen at NMBU was officially opened in spring 2016, and the work on new buildings for the veterinary environment at NMBU is under way. It is also being worked on designing new buildings for life science and for a new Viking Age Museum at the University of Oslo. In 2016, the government passed on the permissions for the construction of student housing at the same high level as in 2015. Road construction and maintenance activities are high. For the second consecutive year, the maintenance run is reduced. Construction of a number of projects started in progress. Several installations have been opened for traffic, including: E136 Tresfjordbrua, which maps in E136 approximately 13 km, E39 Harangen–Högkjulen, which provides shorter and more traffic-proof roads between Orkanger and Vinjeøra, and Rv. 22 Lillestrøm – Fetsund, which increases road capacity and makes the distance more accessible. The new extension company for road, Nye Veier AS, has been operating since 1 January 2016. The aim of the company is to achieve more holistic, coherent and cost-effective development of the main road network in Norway. Agreements have been concluded between the State and Nye Weier AS on the development of three sections. The toll reform will help to ensure that as much as possible of what is demanded by tolls goes for the purpose and that it is easy for drivers to deal with separately. This does a lot of work. by reducing the number of toll collecting companies from over 50 today to five regional toll companies. In 2015, 117 people died in road traffic. These are very low numbers on a European and global scale. The preliminary accident figures for the first seven months of 2016 are higher than in 2015, but still lower than the average for the last ten years. The permissions of railway destinations have increased in the last few years. A number of measures are in progress to increase the transport capacity of the network and improve the quality of train provision. Increased maintenance effort and a strengthened route offer have contributed to more punctual trains and increased passenger traffic. In the spring of 2016, NSB AS achieved the best result for customer satisfaction as the measurements began. Flytoget AS can also show very good results in customer satisfaction measurements. In 2015, there were 73,8 million passengers on the railways in Norway. For the last five years, passenger growth has been on about 26 p.m., and freight transport has increased by 16 p.m., mainly as a result of increased ore transport on Ofotbanen. A number of activities have been undertaken to implement the rail reform so that the competitive base of the first traffic packages can be laid out in the first half of 2017. In February 2016, the Railway Directorate and the Railway Infrastructure Undertaking SF were established. In June, the government presented Report. St. 35 for 2015-2016, where an up-to-date assessment of the work on preventive maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution is provided. Air quality in Norwegian cities and agglomerations has generally improved in recent years in the case of particulate matter. For nitrogen dioxide, NO2, the status and projections are variable. In Norwegian cities, both limit values and national targets are still exceeded. In order to provide municipalities with a number of tools for local air pollution, a central regulation will be laid down for municipal low-emission zones for cars. Local authorities are also briefed on the existing instruments they themselves are moving towards local air pollution. Maximum levels for particulate matter are increased from 2016. A new and modern postal law entered into force on 1 January 2016. Laws facilitate good postal services throughout the country. There is a competition to distribute newspapers in subscriptions on Saturdays where there is no newspaper bodennet today. Antibiotic resistance is a rapidly increasing threat to global health. Today, 700,000 people die in the world every year of resistant bacteria. By 2050, this number could increase to 10 million if we can't stop development. The challenge can only be solved through a strengthened international work. One of the overriding objectives of the strategy against antibiotic resistance adopted by the government in 2015 is that Norway should be a driver in international efforts to strengthen the responsible use and development of new antibiotics. This has been followed up by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Health and Care, who has this topic at the top of his agenda in various international forums. The government has a big message about growth, value creation and founding that shows the potential to develop products and services based on agricultural resources. The clean-up agreement helps to increase organic yield by stimulating the production and slaughter of pure. As a result of the large influx of refugees and migrants in the autumn of 2015, the government has put forward two legislative proposals with proposals for tightening foreign law. Intensification should enable Norway to meet a situation with a high level of migration pressure, and as a result it will be able to do so. must be more stringent in order to be permanently suspended. The size has decided to impose a ban on the use of children as interpreters. Prohibited debt to all public administrations subject to administrative laws. Through the bill on hidden coercive measures, the government has made sure that the police get better methods in the fight against serious crime. New rules on the organisation of the courts of children and other particularly vulnerable offenders and witnesses in criminal matters entered into force in October 2015. These changes strengthen legal certainty for children and particularly vulnerable adults. In May, the government presented a new message about Svalbard to Stortinget. The message confirms that they override the objectives of svalbard policy. The government will further develop Svalbard by investing in research, travel and other activities. The Ministry of Culture has taken up a report on alternative models for funding the NRK. The report will form the basis for the government’s proposal for the future funding model for the NRK, which will be submitted to the Stortinget before the end of 2016. ESA has approved its proposal on zero VAT for electronic news services. The exemption entered into force on 1 March 2016. Norway is the first country in Europe to introduce VAT exemptions for electronic news media, and a significant obstacle to innovation has been removed. Youth Olympics 2016 were held between 12 and 21. of February. The Ministry of Culture has a budget of about 250 million. kr for the implementation of the event. The National Concerts were reorganized in 2016 to meet national responsibilities The cultural school has for all artistic expressions, and has changed its name to the Cultural Tank – The Cultural School of Norway. It was invested for over 8.3 billion. kr in construction, equipment and ICT in health services. New hospital in Kalnes, Eastfold, was completed and put into service. The hospital cost $6.1 billion. kr and was delivered within the budget and timeframe. On 3 June 2016, the government presented Report. St. 34 for 2015–2016, Values in the Patient’s Health Service – Prioritisation Notice. Here the government proposed the principle of priority which will contribute to fair access to health services and give legitimacy to difficult health professionals’ decisions to take every day. New legal provisions on the obligation to call contact doctors in the specialist hospital entered into force in the fall. The scheme applies to seriously ill patients, who will be given a legal right to be called a contact doctor. The government has put forward proposals to extend the right to free treatment options to include contracted private rehabilitation institutions. This will increase the freedom of choice for patients and the lack of supply In May 2016, the government started trials with government funding for the care services in six municipalities. The experiment shall test whether state funding provides a more appropriate response to needs and increases non-discrimination across municipal borders. The government has presented Demen Plan 2020 with the aim of creating a more dementia-friendly society that takes care of and integrates people with dementia in the community, and to improve service provision for people with dementia and their relatives. The government has put forward a legislative proposal on the right to full-time care and has sent a proposal on the legalisation of competence requirements in the municipal health and care services. The government has proposed the creation of a new municipal patient and user registry to provide better knowledge of municipal health and care services in order to improve the provision of services to users, management, planning, etc. The government has submitted a escalating plan for the Raisinfield as its proposition for Storting. It provides an overview of the main challenges in the drug field and sets out both short-term and long-term strategies to meet them. The government has presented a proposal for changes to the Law on Mental Health Protection. These changes increase self-destination and legal certainty for patients. The government has submitted a proposal for a law amending the legal gender. The law gives MARKER [Cross-Ref] _GoBack every single right to choose legal gender, without medical intervention. The government has put forward a strategy for a more age-friendly society for the elderly. The Government has submitted proposals which open to the sale of beverages with more than 4,7 % by volume of alcohol directly from the producer under certain conditions. As a result, small producers of alcohol can sell these products as a secondary industry. The government has presented legislative proposals on the introduction of standardised tobacco packages and the implementation of the new EU tobacco directives. The proposed measures will help to make tobacco products less attractive and take a step closer to the goal of a tobacco-free generation of young people. The Research and Innovation Strategy Health Care21 was completed in June 2014. The aim of the strategy is to promote targeted and holistic efforts in the value chain from research to innovation and commercialisation. In November 2015, the government presented an action plan with 40 follow-up actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-03.ana.ud366e528	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, co-representatives! Today, we're opening up 161th grand. The elected representatives of the people take a seat again in this Chamber, which for 150 years has the House of Great Britain's negotiations. The solemn opening of the big business is the annual turning point of our people's government. This ceremony reminds us, through its fixed and recognizable frameworks, of the permanence and long lines of our people's rule. The languages of the throne, on its side, bear the message of the uncertainty and unrest that accompany the time of change and conversion. The changes around us are great, they happen quickly, and many of them are difficult, if not impossible, to predict. Economic and technological upheavals are interwoven with climate change and foreign policy tensions. The situation in Europe is demanding. The United Kingdom’s decision to leave the EU, developments in Russia and the dramatic situation in Europe’s neighbourhoods color our political everyday life. During our ageing period, terrorist attacks have rocked European countries at a horrific rate. The attacks are abominable, ruthless and represent a rejection of democracy as we know it. Major global challenges are always reflected in Norwegian policy. Uncertainty in others is also felt in us. The threats are different, but the common human need for security is global. The teacher in Aleppo, the oil engineer in Jären, the industrial worker in Sheffield, the café host in Paris, the shop owner in Kiev, or the minor asylum seeker in Vallermyrene – all of us share with them the desire and need for security, for work, well-being and security. Just meeting more demanding times, it is important to set long-term and overall goals. Our daily parliamentary work is more than a whole series of individual matters. It also stakes out a course. The way to achieve long-term objectives is through the many smaller decisions, as they appear in the parties' group meetings, committee rooms and in this Chamber. Over 202 years, we have built a regime of peoples that shows the ability, on the one hand, to make political differences visible and contribute to the debate that a living democracy requires, but on the other hand also to be solution-oriented and pragmatic in terms of. The solemn opening of greatness is a symbolic reminder of what must be our starting point in meeting an uncertain and troubled world: a balanced and well-designed democratic system that is supported by a predictable and, not least, open political culture. That's where we have our way of working, that's where we're going to agree on the path to continued security and well-being. The 169 representatives in this Chamber are – and must be – among the most accessible parliamentarians in the world. We all focus on visiting our communities and being present where people gather. Our elected representatives share a conversation with the people who have chosen them, build politics from below, and make it recognizable. In this community lies our most important weapon against extremism, populism and irresponsible politics. Today, where «al Power and Power» is literally gathered in this hall, we remember a rough figure in the history of Storting, the 200th anniversary of Johan Sverdrup. Let's end with the words Sverdrup let fall about himself in 1866, when the landfill was brand new: «Neither my abilities, nor my knowledge, nor my power over the people. I am a child of the people; among it is my place and to it I am bound by ties that cannot be torn apart. If I have ever been bad enough to think differently, then it was a passing dream." With these words, and in the assurance that all the elected representatives in this room will do their utmost to solve the many great problems ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-03.ana.ud366e581	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
