ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e127	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vosskensen, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Mazyar Keshvari and Liv Signe Navarsette, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne OdenmarckFor Rogaland County: Per Kåre FossFor Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen The Workers' Group has requested that the granted leave of the representative Gunvor Eldegard be extended until 20 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Are Health, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e174	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e188	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e195	First, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Labour Party for an important initiative, then the Committee on Good Cooperation and broad consensus. Special thanks to the representatives of Stensland and Kjerkol, who have been key players in achieving a good combination of broad consensus and a little impatience for further progress. Think of the microsecond in world history when the oil price rages and the data storage directive is scrapped about simultaneously – and in the years that follow, the world is on its way from seven to nine billion people. This may be the time when it is really worth hitting the door wide open to the world, shouting hip, hip hurrah and seriously assessing whether the time has come for the pink industrial change in Norway. On my way into the hall today, I had to take a turn in the Eidsvolleriet – if not to get a feeling in the spring, I needed some spiritual inspiration from my political ideal Gunnar Knudsen. What would he do at this moment – which can be compared a little to when he and Johan Castberg issued the concession laws a little over 100 years ago and began to buy up waterfalls under state control? As an engineer, shipowner, and industrial builder, Knudsen had a great vision, while being a man of action. It was the electrification of the industry and the nation that was Knudsen's great project. In the next few years, we are facing a genetic revolution where personalised medicine is only going to be a small part of the outcome. At the same time, there will be a large-scale industrial revolution and a large-scale health gain – on the way to the joy of nine billion people, perhaps by 2050. The ball gave me a sharp look and a clear answer: Start! But it must, of course, be with a reservation about a state involvement, a kind of concession. Norway has one of the world’s best health services. We have a lot of progress in research education and doctoral students in health-related subjects. We have received our first Nobel Prize in Medicine with Moser at NTNU. The University of Oslo places great emphasis on life sciences, and Oslo Cancer Cluster is a leading health cluster in an important field of action – cancer research and treatment. In addition, the Center for Cyber and Information Security at NTNU on Gjøvik is building on one of Europe’s leading centres for data security and privacy – and now we’re connected to health there. The position and the time are excellent. But the time window is short for this adventurous opportunity for Norway. The committee was visiting London in winter and got to see how the British rate on Genomics England and welfare technology. Denmark and Sweden also adapt quickly with similar models. It is urgent for Norway to organise us — and to give priority to it. Some of the challenge is that there are many actors: universities, hospitals, the Institute of Public Health, the Research Council, Biobank Norway – many feel they have a share in this. It's most of all good, but our own prestige and right to rule must be sidelined by many actors if we're to add a sustainable model. The state must therefore itself take the lead towards its own actors and create a wise model for public–private cooperation in which the private health industry and researchers from other countries should also have a place. We see a changing pharmaceutical and health industry – from low-cost hunting on production to thinking long-term and sustainable. One of Norway’s major advantages is a stable social structure and, internationally, a relatively moderate level of pay for brain power. Industrial cooperation based on Norwegian biobanks and health records must meet data protection and ethical legislation requirements and can guarantee the safe storage of biological material and results from the analyses. The confidence of the citizens and between the actors is very central to the success of such a commitment. The Data Storage Directive has been drawn – and it is. The EU itself is on the steps with new directives, which are more on the premises of citizens in terms of ownership of data. One of these – Protection of Personal Data – will be implemented in Norway from 2018. So here, too, there's a short time window in terms of alignment and being in the front. In this area, we have good conditions for success: a good health system, excellent research environments, attractive business clusters and unique data from health registers, biobanks and large health surveys. The benefits for patients and society are many. Increased use of precision medicine could revolutionise medical treatment, and healthcare could save a lot of money by avoiding over-treatment without efficacy. In addition to establishing an infrastructure for safe and ethical cooperation between Norwegian public biobanks, health registers and industrial actors – as proposed – we should also establish a strategy on how Norway can succeed in positioning itself as a global knowledge hub for the development of future precision medicine. Norway is one of the few countries that has the ability to develop a model for health clusters. Oslo Cancer Cluster is the exponent of this. But both around Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø we see health clusters in development. We also need to be able to find political contributions to this at a time when Oslo Cancer Cluster is ‘going out to date’ in the Arena programme in 2017. There are many important decisions that await us in the next few years, in view of a pink shift in the Norwegian health industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e225	I would like to join the rapporteur's enthusiasm, in particular that of shouting hip, hip hurrah – perhaps one day in arrears, but I hope you can see a great deal of it, for medical development, better patient treatment and the creation of an increasingly accurate healthcare system does not come about by itself. It requires that we constantly develop new knowledge through better practices and through research. Of course, the Labour Party wants the results of the research to contribute to better public health both in the short and not least in the long term. There are great opportunities in Norway’s uniform health service, in our population studies that have gone over many years, in the biobanks that have been built up, and in health records – opportunities far beyond the borders of the country, on which the case-rapporteur enthusiastically embroidered. A unanimous committee wants to lift this up as a bet, and it makes me happy. I almost feel that I have a birthday today. This is policy at its best. The work on this proposal can best be described as constructive, and I would commend all the parties for a good, open and open treatment. In particular, the government parties have met this initiative from Stortinget offensively and constructively, and it promises well for the continuation. It is a proposal which was also well received by all those who took part in the Committee's hearing. The material from our biobanks, both population-based and clinical biobanks, and the data in our many health records are mainly used for health research at universities, colleges and in healthcare. If the material is also to be used for the development of better diagnostic tests and new and better medicines, research cooperation with industry is necessary. It's because it's the industry that basically develops, produces and sells such products to our healthcare. Many have referred to our biobanks and health records as the new oil. Public authorities, many politicians, researchers and participants in medical studies have pointed out that these are opportunities that Norway as a nation should exploit. For this reason, many have also looked at how such cooperation can be conducted in a good and ethically sound manner. Unfortunately, the framework for achieving this today is a little too low, and it requires a lot of administrative and regulatory research – which is on every individual researcher. We believe that we need to make this data available through a national infrastructure and a law that can be manipulated in an ethically sound and efficient way. The unique material found in Norwegian biobanks is subject to significant interest both from research environments and from industry and industry. In order to ensure the confidence of the population in providing data for research, it is important to have formal correct conditions and full transparency regarding cooperation between researchers at universities and in industry. In order to avoid individual researchers being contacted and starting direct cooperation with commercial enterprises, a coherent national model for that type of cooperation should be developed. When the policy wants to have industry on a stake, there are always two things that are important: one is predictability, and with a unanimous committee, I would say that the Stortinge facilitates predictability today. The second is long-term. I hope the government will follow this up by establishing a uniform model of cooperation with the industry, so that the predictability that is now created also provides long-term enough for the industry to invest in research based on Norwegian biobanks and health records. At the end, I would also like to say hip, hip, hurrah, as the case-in-law rapporteur did.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e236	The previous speaker mentioned that she felt she had almost had a birthday today. As far as I know, she has birthday today – that's what it's said! But it was a good gift to put this matter in place, with such broad consensus. It was not difficult for us in the government parties to agree with the proposers here, because this very well supports our policy. So far, this is a good contribution on the road to achieving much of what is stated in the government statement on these issues. So this is good. At the same time, impatience is also present on our part, for example. on how to implement the measures in healthcare21. I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the proposers for a good process and for a smooth and generous round in the Committee. We could probably need more of that to get the time to go a little bit faster in committee meetings. That being said, it's not that we can just release this. There is a reason why there are currently obstacles to register research and the use of these data. It is privacy – to which the representative Kjeseth was involved – that is central here. It is of great value to Norway that we have such good health records. We can't just give that value away. It is for the sake of our citizens that there should not be too much transparency about the individual's state of health and be easy to dive into it. Therefore, strict compliance with data protection standards remains important for the Right. This is not a release, but we want a cleanup, so that one does not have unnecessary obstacles to getting good commercial projects out of these databases. What distinguishes Norway from many other countries is that we have such good health records. Another thing: another country, the United States, doesn't even have a person number. It is easy for us to find data and anonymise data, but it is quite obvious that the changes we made in the Health Register Act and the Patient Records Act two years ago were not enough to satisfy the requirements for this type of research. So this is an important step forward to facilitate a new development in an important industry for Norway, namely the health industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e251	Norwegian biobanks are important for Norwegian research environments, together with good health records. It is a very comprehensive committee that believes this to be the case, and the Committee is proud that the Norwegian Research Council concludes that several Norwegian research environments are world leaders and that the biobank material currently found in Norwegian biobanks is subject to significant interest from both research environments, industry and industry. The Committee also agrees that we should take advantage of this advantage, and the Minister of Health expressed the same opinion by letter to the Committee of 21 January. There won't be so much debate when the consensus is so big, and there might be a little bit of repetition, but I'm still choosing to comment a little on where we stand. First, we have the research and innovation strategy Health Care21, from research to innovation and commercialisation. In this context, a Council has been set up to work on its follow-up. Here we will have closer cooperation between public and private actors in health and care, where public authorities will be a driver and active user of innovation. In 2015, the government presented the Action Plan for the follow-up to this strategy, including: developing health data as a national priority was one of the points. Furthermore, we have set up the Directorate for e-Health, such as: will provide national governance, coordination and improvement of communication between health actors. Furthermore, there is a major effort to modernise and centralise national health records and national medical quality records. A new Health Register Act entered into force on 1 January 2015, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare is now reviewing the regulations of the law, where further simplifications will be assessed. In addition, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on regulatory regulation of population-based health surveys and medical quality records, which currently have time-limited concessions from the Data Protection Authority. I'm really glad I don't have to have all these things inside my head – I think it's hard and demanding to keep track of everything that's going on. But it shows that we're going one way ahead. The Committee supports the efforts to link biobank material with health records, provided that the privacy of the individual is protected and the need for consent has been clarified. This is a very important point for us in the Progress Party. This area has an unused potential as a commercial policy area. It's worth noting that biobanks and health records are important for the development of personalized medicine, which I hope and believe will be the future way of treating many patients. We've seen in recent years how personalised medicine can change the way we treat a number of diseases, and it's going to be incredibly exciting to follow this development. The innovation perspective has been expressed more clearly in the activities of universities and research institutes, and through clearer political leadership and with a public and national coordinated effort. The Committee would like to see better legislation that facilitates the use of health registers and biobanks more effectively in research, but without lowering the requirement for privacy. It is positive that Norwegian actors are bringing together a common plan, and the Committee therefore calls on the government to take the initiative of a meeting of stakeholders to discuss interest, needs and opportunities. At the same time, it is essential that confidence in health registers and biobanks is not weakened. The Health Care Council21 proposal to assess the establishment of a public biobanking company is followed up by an overall committee, which proposes that the government investigate models and infrastructure for cooperation between Norwegian public biobanks, health registers and industrial actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e287	The Central Party also supports the proposal to set up models and an infrastructure for safe and ethical defence cooperation between Norwegian public biobanks, health registers and industrial actors. Norway has a unique biobank material, and we see that this is also very interesting for both research environment, business and industry. It is today that the health of the Norwegian population can be followed in national registers of both good and internationally recognised quality, and we are some with the proposers that Norway should not only become a passive provider of population-based data from these epidemiological registers and biobanks, but also become an active and highly competent partner, as it says in the proposal. In this setting, the Committee is very consensual, and that is very positive. There's one remark about the Christian People's Party and the Center Party is all about it, and I think I'm sorry, because it would have been possible for the Committee to be clearer about the ethical challenges, and especially since this is actually also mentioned in the proposal. What stands out from a joint committee is that good laws and regulations are important to regulate the use and ownership of biological material, whether it is used for research and/or commercial activity before this area. The central party, together with the Christian People's Party, has focused on the setting, is to show that cooperation between the public funded research environment and the pharmaceutical industry raises important ethical questions about who should own the data and use it, and what the donor himself should know and be able to reserve himself against. We refer to the working group mentioned in the proposal for a representative, which was set up by the Norwegian Research Council in 2008, which precisely eliminates the ethical, legal and political priorities for the development of industry and the commercial exploitation of Norwegian human biobanks. They concluded that it is the person who emits biological material, who is considered to be the owner, and who can make binding decisions as to how the material can be used. The promise is that the recipient of biological material may engage in commercial activity if the material is obtained in an ethically justified and legal manner, and the donor has given the necessary consent. Then we agree with the proposers that the ownership structure of a commercialization company is essential, and that trust is a decisive keyword. It is also important that one has a view of ownership and the right to dispose of biological material that is in line with people's perception of justice. The people of Norway have traditionally shown great willingness to participate in major health studies – an impressive will. It's absolutely crucial to be happy with what we're now deciding, that one can take care of that trust to get a boost for Norwegian biobanks in the future. The aim of biobank law, which the majority would not have a comment on, but which I think is important, says that the collection, storage, processing and destruction of material contained in a biobank should be carried out in an ethically justified way, and that biobanks should be used for the benefit of the individual and society. We also stress in the setting, to what is stated about the purpose of the biobanking law, that collection is to be done in accordance with fundamental privacy considerations, in accordance with the principle of respect for human dignity and personal integrity and without discrimination against people from whom the biological material originates. What I'm saying now is nothing new, it's already the purpose of biobanking law, but as I said, it seems to me that there is a weakness in the vote today that no joint committee could also have been with and underlined this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e306	I am pleased that a unanimous committee is behind this proposal for a representative, and will take the opportunity to congratulate the representative Kjerkol on the day and with a position that I believe the representative is very pleased with. We invest large public resources in biobanks, population surveys and health registers, but it is still possible to get more out of the investment. It concerns the development of better services, quality, knowledge and also industrial development and jobs. I am also pleased that the Committee refers to much of the work already undertaken by the government in this field. The establishment of the eHealth Directorate shall contribute to the development of a common standard, where one also provides national governance and coordination. New Health Register Act entered into force on 1 January 2015. Now we are dealing with new regulations, for example: on population surveys and quality records, which will provide significant simplifications. It's set at $30 million. the establishment of a municipal register of patients and users, and the bill of establishment is now being dealt with in the Stortinget. The government's long-term plan for research and higher education places great emphasis on investment in research infrastructure. In 2015, the Research Council allocated 80 million. to the project Biobank Norway and 36,5 million. kr to the project to make data for health records more accessible for research purposes. Health data should provide us with safe knowledge of the quality and impact of treatment and the health status of the population. However, health data are at the same time sensitive information, which must be treated ethically and in a way that preserves the privacy of individuals. In this context, health data should be used for research, health analysis, statistics, quality work, governance and management, but also contribute to innovation and industrial development. In order for the use of health data to work in practice, the necessary prerequisites must be in place, i.e.: an effective, robust and sound legal framework, integrated technological solutions that meet the requirements of safe storage of health data, efficient organisation and good infrastructure. Here it's still a little bit of a way to go. We know that different technological systems for health data do not communicate well enough. This concerns communication between health registers and biobanks and between health data and other population data. The system is still fragmented. Individually, the conditions for the compilation, supply and prior authorisation of health data are legitimate and necessary, but questions have been raised as to whether the sum of these conditions is unnecessary time and cost-intensive. The Health Care21 strategy, presented in 2014, was developed by the universities, hospitals, municipalities, business, public institutions and users themselves. Health data as national priority and health care as a business policy area were two out of five main priorities of the strategy. In connection with the establishment of the Health Care Council21, a meeting place has been set up in which all actors from the public and private sectors can coordinate their follow-up together. Developing health data as a national priority and health care as a business policy area is central to the government’s strategy follow-up action plan. If health data are to contribute to the development of nutrition, it is necessary that the business community also takes responsibility. The State may not have an industrial function as its central responsibility in the health data field. However, the state clearly has a responsibility to facilitate business development also in the field of health data. It is not clear how far the responsibility of the State should go. Are there new ways of doing things that can tear down barriers to the full exploitation of health data for different purposes, while respecting privacy and other necessary prerequisites? I want to find out more about this. I have submitted a proposal to the government to set up an expert committee to contribute to a better and more efficient system for the treatment of health data for statistics, planning, health analysis, quality improvement, research, innovation and industrial development. The decision of the Enlarged Bureau in this matter will form part of the mandate of this Committee of Experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e337	I would first like to thank the Council of State for its congratulations on the day. I had wanted a commercialization company, but I realize that I might not get it. But I am well pleased with the day anyway. Governments have taken this offensively, and it is consistent with a number of processes that are going on. The Council of State mentions several initiatives that are in the loop, and in particular the Health Care Council21 and the expert group mentioned by the Council of State at the end of its intervention, are becoming important. So if you're going to succeed in this – and it's a unanimous committee that's impatient, more representatives of the Council of State's own party are probably as impatient as I am – I just want to ask the Council of State: how do you imagine following up on this in government? There will be more ministries than the Council of State that have to play on, if we are going to go a step further with a national infrastructure that takes care of what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e346	Work is anchored in the government, and the follow-up to the various strategies is also the government's common policy. The follow-up strategy of the government on Health Care21 was presented by the Prime Minister himself, and is an important part of the basis of the Government's action plan on research and development, for which the Minister of Knowledge is responsible. As far as the Ministry of Food and Fisheries is concerned, we see that the instruments which the government and our cooperation parties have chosen to invest in state budgets are instruments which are now also more widely used for industrial activities aimed at health and care. A significant share of the funds under the various schemes is just going to start-up, start-up and development activities in those areas. So this is a common government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e354	Thanks for the answer. I feel secure, and we're still going to be impatient. The Biobank Norway consortium is very interesting in this context and in its follow-up, as they represent a research network that has the very central actors under its umbrella. Now, in a sense, they are not a separate legal entity, but I imagine – as the Council of State also says in the letter that he responds to the proposal to the committee – that they will be natural to follow. It can be seen that Biobank Norway can also be entrusted with what other countries have invested in, namely more personalised medicine through more gene sequencing and, among other things, what is involved. the rapporteur-in-chief from England? If the government has any thoughts about it, it would be interesting to hear something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e363	We are going to have a discussion on personalised medicine later today, and the Health Directorate will come up with its proposal for a strategy in that area in June. Then we will see what measures the Health Directorate will propose in its final proposal. It is also the case that there are many important actors on the road here. It is in line with the thinking of the health and care strategy, and it is important that the various actors also take a step forward and take the different roles that they can take in this work, through the opportunities that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e370	I thank the Council of State for the article. There is a broad consensus here, but we are bordering on industry here – there are also many of the instrument actors who are putting on funds for development. In that case, the government and the Prime Minister often respond that we in Norway should have business neutrality. I can agree, to this extent, that there should be equality between industries in developing and competing to become Norway's areas of activity. However, in view of what we are talking about now, it is more today at a stage where it is about a division of roles and getting an interaction between many state actors – among others. universities and university hospitals, as an example – to get to the infrastructure we want to bring out the opportunities. Can the Council of State say something about how careful we are to bet on this policy of nutrition, at the stage we are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e379	First of all, I have to say that the Prime Minister is talking about business neutrality. The Prime Minister does not. The term ‘nutritional neutrality’ in a public document of a government in Norway was last used by the Stoltenberg I government, but it has never been used by our government. We don't have industry neutrality, precisely because we have very clear priorities. For example, one of the government's research strategies will see that special areas of activity have been identified. It is also seen in the Research Council's allocations. Among other things, the Ministry of Health and Welfare contributes considerable resources to research and development through specific programmes targeted at those areas, so that we do not have business neutrality. But within the various instruments we have, it is important that the different actors compete, so that we are sure that we spend the money in those areas where we can get the best results, and that we do not politically choose individual projects that mean that we risk spending the money on wrong projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e386	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e402	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e409	The Committee has examined the Left's proposal to raise the alcohol limit for beers sold in grocery stores from 4.7 % by volume to 7 % by volume. The left argues in the proposal that the brewing industry has changed since The Storting decided in 1992 to reduce the limit on the alcoholic strength of beer to be sold together with milk and bread in stores. However, although there were only 15 breweries in Norway at the time, while there is today a wide variety of over 160 Norwegian breweries, it is not that the brewer himself is particularly interested in the Left’s proposal. Rather, the Brewery and Drinking Association do not support such a proposal, and it justifies both nutrition and alcohol policy. The Progress Party supports the Left in this matter. The other parties in the committee are broadly in agreement as to why one does not want stronger beer in Norwegian grocery stores. For the majority, it is essential in this case to refer to the EEA legal basis for maintaining the monopoly of wine in Norway – for public health reasons. The wine monopoly system is in a special position in Europe and the derogation system is an exception to the EU rules on a free and non-discriminatory market. There are limits to how much we can allow ourselves to deviate from the rules that apply to all countries, before the EU withdraws the exemption scheme. Although the Left and the Progressive Party reserve the right to make their proposals without challenging the curious agreement on the wine monopoly, there are also other reasons why the majority does not support the proposal. The fact that the wine monopoly has a high degree of legitimacy among the Norwegian people is important for our alcohol policy. In the last two years, the size has dealt with several issues relating to the position of the Vinmonopoly, such as the possibility of opening up more days of sale per year and ensuring a sufficient number of high-quality sales across the country. The wine monopoly must have a wide range of products and sufficient sales volume. Taking heavy beer out of the range of the Vinmonopole could weaken the business base. The Brewery and Drinking Association believes that the competition for placing in the shelves will be much harder if it is opened for sale of beer in the ordinary store, and that it is the small manufacturers who have the most to lose. They are actually concerned with highlighting that the wine monopoly is a skilled distributor for beer producers and that the polet has much better beer competence than the grocery trade. In addition, small-scale producers are likely to receive the best national coverage through the Vinmonopolet and the highly accessible and good online shop in Poland. We, who make up the majority in this case, have also placed great emphasis on the fact that, for the sake of non-discrimination of products, it will not be possible to open up only beer, but that a change will mean that all alcoholic products up to 7 % vol. must be allowed for sale in grocery stores. The Brewery and Drinking Association is also concerned with the competitive situation of beer in relation to other alcohol products. They believe that beer in the store can undermine the wine monopoly and open up to wine in the store, which could exacerbate the competitive situation of Norwegian beer. Then it is enough that more people in the Right believe the proposal from the Left is a good proposal. There are two things to say: firstly, the Right has concluded a cooperation agreement – between the government parties and the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are fixed. The right-wing group believes that allowing the sale of stronger alcoholic beverages in shops challenges the main lines of the alcohol policy, and therefore does not support the proposal, although two of the four cooperation parties consider otherwise. Secondly, the view of the Minister of Health Group of the Right agrees that such a change as the Left wishes could threaten the rationale for maintaining the monopoly of wine in Norway. It doesn't want the Right to challenge. We believe that the wine monopoly, as it appears today, manages well to be a quality supplier of alcohol while at the same time providing responsible sales of wine, spirits and liqueurs. With high taxes and strict controls, the Wine Monopoly is our main alcohol policy instrument. The Left's proposal is supported by the Progress Party, but not by the majority here in Stortinget or by the breweries themselves. With the proposal, the left has made a snapshot of where the dividing lines currently go in terms of a more liberal alcohol policy — not only health policy but also business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e432	The Labour Party is committed to maintaining an alcohol policy in Norway where we are able to balance the need for social control of turnover, while at the same time providing access to quality products to the population. The monopoly of wine is the best tool we have to manage this balance, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. We are pleased that there is such a broad political welcome on this policy. It's about the vast majority who control access to alcohol, and the large minority who don't. Alcohol is one of the main causes of health challenges in the population, but alcohol is also part of our food culture. Norway has long traditions of beer production. The working party welcomes the growing interest in the further development of Norwegian food tradition and the establishment of microbreweries. We've also recorded that the 4.7-volume limit has led to the development of several good products below the 4.7-volume limit, and that's good. The wine monopoly has taken the consequences of increasing interest in beer. During this year they started two pilot poles with extended oil splitting in existing poles, in Trondheim and in Sandnes. This scheme shall be evaluated. The working party considers that the establishment of a corresponding department in the second pole should be considered. This strengthens the role of the wine monopoly, while facilitating local business and local producers. The Labour Party was delighted to be surprised by the Brewery and Drinking Association, which at the hearing was so clear that they did not support the proposal, both for nutritional and alcohol policy reasons. They believed that microbreweries are best served to present their products via the Vinmonopolet than via the store, and that the Vinmonopolet guarantees greater breadth and quality for consumers. We have received a number of new poles in recent years, and non-polished municipalities get delivery of the products free of charge via the Post Office. The association of wine and spirits providers recommended that the Committee not support the proposal and highlighted in particular that it would weaken the monopoly of wine and offer a lower level of supply to consumers. So both of the major trade unions go against the Left's justification for the proposal, but it doesn't seem to affect the Left and the Advance Party. It seems that pure populism is more offensive than a knowledge-based policy in this matter. The Labour Party believes that the Left's proposal is a little thoughtful. It will also open automatically from non-discrimination to other products with an equivalent alcoholic strength, such as products today. is associated with accidental alcohol consumption in many youth settings. The Labour Party is also critical of a proposal that could undermine the economy of the Vinmonopoly and the legitimacy of the population. The Workers' Party does not support proposals that weaken the position of the Wine Monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument and its ability to follow up its societal mission. We have recently received the annual report from the Vinmonopolet. It appears that for the first time in 20 years the sale has decreased from the previous year. This is not because people drink less, but because they trade alcohol elsewhere, through border trade and tax-free. Therefore, further diluting the wine monopoly would be completely wrong policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e449	After hearing the last article, I think – when the representative was concerned that some of the challenge is that the sale of the wine monopoly is going down because you choose other solutions – that maybe it's just some of the reasons for the proposal that you want to get it into legal forms, and in a good way. That is why we agree with the Left in their proposal, that we want to open up the possibility of this being sold in grocery stores as well. But we also agree that we should not challenge the EEA Agreement and that we can still have wine monopolies, as the proposal also says. It's not like this is a big revolution. This was a scheme that had until 1993 — in 1992 the Stortinget adopted a change — so there is no major revolution. And why did we end up there? Well, that's because it's actually happened a lot since 1993 and until 2016, and then maybe it's time to go through the legislation and see if something should change. Thus, the number now producing has increased from 15 in 1992 to more than 160 today. It shows that this is something that many are now involved in, and it has become a culture for this in Norway. That means, as I said, that we've got a completely different diversity and completely different possibilities. And I know at least that many small producers are still struggling to get in, and they want this opportunity to do this through grocery stores. It is a little special that the Centre Party, which is a party occupied by the districts, which is concerned that it should be possible to operate in the districts — and until one has received wine monopoly everywhere, it is likely that there will still be a need to create jobs, which give back values — say no to join this proposal. For this is really about taking the districts seriously and letting the local merchant – who runs his store and who has challenges today because he is being challenged in many other areas, by others who also run business – have the opportunity to sell this type of alcohol at the store. I believe, as I said, that this is not what is going to overturn Norwegian alcohol policy, or what will overturn the EEA Agreement. I think this will be a good way to find out, that small-scale producers will then have the opportunity to deliver to the local purchaser, and that the local merchant will be able to sell this. And it's not like those you really care about doing something about alcohol policy are those who choose to buy one or two bottles of this type of alcoholic product. First, it is often much more expensive, but it is also often people who like to buy one or two bottles, who do, and who do not want to take the break with – as some representatives have said – just order it from the Vinmonopolet and get it delivered at Post in Store. Instead, you choose other products. So I think this is a good proposal from the Left, on which we support, a proposal that shows that you are occupied by local producers, that local producers will have the opportunity to sell their products, even if it has a slightly higher alcohol percentage than what is there today. But this will not be the case for Norwegian alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e464	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e467	Yes, I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e472	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then mentioned the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e475	Norwegian alcohol policy has been restrictive for a long time and, as a result, Norway has lower alcohol consumption and fewer alcohol-related harms than other European countries. The Christian People's Party has noted the Left's representative's proposal to raise the alcohol limit for beer sold in grocery stores and that it is justified from a business policy perspective. The Christian People's Party is committed to pursuing a consistent and restrictive alcohol policy and believes that the health and solidarity of the population with those who are struggling must weigh heavily on alcohol policy. In recent years, the prevalence of drug use among young people has fallen markedly. However, in the last 10–15 years there has been a significant increase in total alcohol consumption in Norway. It is well documented that restrictive drug policies have a good effect. It is the large group with moderate consumption of drugs, mainly alcohol, which causes the most harm and disease, and which imposes the greatest costs on society. Price and availability are two of the most effective means we have to pursue a consistent and restrictive alcohol policy. We are therefore highly critical to make products with higher alcoholic strength available in groceries. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this undermines and challenges the long lines of Norwegian alcohol policy. As Actis, the cooperation body of the drug field, points out, the proposal is a poor strategy to reduce health-related consumption. We are asking ourselves that the representatives behind the proposal believe that the changes could contribute to the achievement of alcohol policy objectives and be beneficial to public health. They point out in the proposal, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘If beer is offered for sale in groceries, it will be possible for consumers to visit a wider range of beers without having to take the trip between the brandy shelves found in the wine monopolist shops. Twisting the consumption of spirit products such as spirits for less alcoholic products such as beer will be in line with Norway's alcohol policy objectives and will also be beneficial to public health.» There's really reason to ask for the durability of this claim. It seems to be more valid with the opposite sign. If such a proposal is implemented, it is more likely that consumers in their daily business will opt out of low-alcohol products for the benefit of a wide and varied range of beers. There is good evidence that increased availability increases consumption. There is particular concern that a proposed change may affect the consumption of alcohol by young people and the sale to minors. As the wine and spirits association points out, many young people debut with beer purchased in grocery stores. Increased availability of beer products with a higher alcohol content could result in increased consumption and increased alcohol damage. As Actis also refers to in his audition, Juvente’s peer control over many years has shown that over 30 pst. of the grocery stores selling alcohol to minors. Like Actis, the Christian People's Party believes that it would be irresponsible to let an industry that is unable to control the sale of ordinary beer get the responsibility to sell goods with an even higher alcohol percentage. The monopoly of wine depends on popular uprising and legitimacy to survive. In our opinion, the proposal challenges the wine monopoly regime. The wine monopoly is recognised and valued by the population. In order to continue to give legitimacy to this system, it is essential that Norwegian alcohol policy supports the Vinmonopolet as one of the most important alcohol policy instruments we have. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the proposed change will further weaken the monopoly of wine, and it seems alarming that the representatives of the Left and the Progressive Party place commercial motives on public health considerations and a solidarity and restrictive alcohol policy. The representative proposal, which outlines a change that will make products with higher alcoholic strength available for more and wider segments, challenges the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy, and we are pleased that there is a majority in this room that does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e504	This proposal is incorporated into a series of alcohol-liberal proposals that the Left either produces itself or produces multiples in this room. The left is saying that this proposal is to distort the consumption of spirit products such as spirits to less alcoholic products such as beer, and that it is thus in line with Norway's alcohol policy objectives. Fortunately, only the Progress Party supports the Left in this argument. Although representatives of both the Right, the Left and the Advance Party were in favour of this proposal when it was just before Christmas, the Right Party is now back on a defensive public health line, and they are warning against the proposal for which the Government colleague, the Progress Party and the Government Cooperation Party, the Left Party, is seeking multiples. The proposal shows the true face of Norwegian alcohol policy, which distinguishes between the Left and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party on the other, and where the Right is in line with us. In this case, the right must go to the opposition in Stortinget, not to its government colleagues or partners, in order to get an impact on its own policies. The centre party never refuses to support a good public health case and will contribute to the right not being voted down by its own in this important matter. Mr Høie, Minister for Health, my proposal will undermine the role of the Vinmonopolet as an alcohol policy tool. Those are pretty strong words from the Minister of Health. In addition, the proposal will have to deal not only with beer but also with other products with the corresponding alcoholic strength. The proposal could thus be contrary to the EEA Agreement. But when the Council of State and also the Right in the position is the turbulence of the Vinmonopolet position, they are also somewhat dishonest, for they refer only to border trade and smuggling, without mentioning that the government itself was involved in increasing the tax-free quota for wine by 50 pst., which has been guaranteed and has just contributed to undermining the position of the Vinmonopolet. The left believes that the proposal will be an important decision on industrial policy. But then it is important to remember that the Brewery and Drinking Association believe the opposite. They think that more new products in the grocery trade will give rise to much greater competition, and that the small producers have the most to lose on this. They also point out that two salsa channels contribute to greater turnover than one, and they point out that small-scale producers will face challenges of having the same national coverage in the grocery trade they currently have through the Wine Monopoly. I think it is alarming that the party that has signed an agreement that the main lines of the alcohol policy should be fixed has such different opinions about what this should or can mean – but they do. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, said in his speech that he believes that this proposal is to take the district seriously. I think that, with so much centralization from the districts under this government, there might be a need for more available beers in the countryside, a bit like this: Yes, emergency surgery disappears, but you can go and buy yourself a beers at the grocery store. I want to be clear that camouflaging this as a district policy is just provocative. It is a political goal in Norway to reduce the harmful use of alcohol by at least 10 pst. by 2025. Today has 17 pst. of the population, a risky consumption of alcohol. At that time, the Central Party felt that adopting this proposal was to make the alcohol policy go completely the wrong way. Of course, we will vote against the proposal that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e523	The slogan ‘Most People’ and the slogan ‘First People’ of the Left Party may sometimes provide a good combination. It is probably primarily for the sake of the people that we stand on this platform, and not necessarily for the sake of the interests of the Brewery Association, that we should combat the emergence of microbreweries. To the representative Kjersti Toppe: In Valdres, Tine's dairies have disappeared, while the razor has taken over the old dairies, and the microbrewry Small Vesen is on its way. Food and food culture are some of the things that lie behind, but also the old beer culture and the taste culture, and there's also some of the background to the proposal from the Left. The Norwegian districts have a lot to offer, and in Oppland, these microbrews have grown — at Dovre, in Aurdal and in Hadeland — just around food production. And yes, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, something has happened to the Norwegian brewery sector since 1992. Microbreweries today stand for 20 pst. in the breweries sector, and they are likely to develop even more jobs. However, there is hardly any profitability in that sector, not least because in the last ten years – especially under the red-green government – one has raised beer prices enormously, while one has left behind, for example. the alcohol levies are kept in order. So they're talking red-green here against their own evolution in recent years. The position of the wine monopoly is quite strong in Norway. That's the one. But what one did with the tax-free quota, where one had the opportunity to switch smoke into beer and spirits, was not an obstacle to the position of the Vinmonopole. We have just decided that one should have the sale of pages from farms, which did not challenge either. So we're not completely agreed on what challenges the situation of the wine monopoly. In summary, I think it is the fear of the elephant beer, which some of us brought home from training camps in Denmark, or the horror of the rush, which lies behind some of this discussion we have here today, and that we hide behind ‘public health’ as a motive for discussing this, because there is no doubt that a turn from alcohol to beer is also favourable to public health. But it's not the volume we're talking about here; it's taste culture, food traditions and opportunities for the districts to develop something based on their own traditions and their own resources, which is primarily the possibility of this proposal. It's reassuring that we can't agree to use the possibilities that exist. In the case of micro-breweries, access to the retail trade would contribute to increased turnover and profitability, with which they are struggling, and, after all, groceries are well regulated in terms of sales times and their supervision. That is what we should first talk about in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e537	In Norway, we have used a wide range of instruments to help reduce alcohol consumption and thereby reduce the harm and problems caused by alcohol use. The sale of alcoholic beverages above 4.7 % by volume of alcohol through the Vinmonopolet is an essential part of this tool package. The justification for the Vinmonopol scheme in EEA law is based on public health considerations. A prerequisite for continuing to have a wine monopoly regime is that this measure is part of a restrictive, comprehensive and consistent alcohol policy. A change outlined in the representative’s proposal would lead to increased availability, which in turn could lead to an increase in consumption with an increased risk of injury. Moving the sales of products between 4.7 and 7 % vol. alcohol from the wine monopoly to the retail trade could raise questions as to whether alcohol policy is still consistent. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is required, in its regulation of the marketing of alcoholic beverages, to treat Norwegian and foreign products in the same way. It would therefore be problematic not to open up all products up to 7 % by volume of alcohol, such as alcohol. spirits containing grape must, were to be sold in the retail trade, in addition to beer. The monopoly of wine notes the increased interest in beer among its customers, which is reflected in increased sales figures for both Norwegian and foreign beer. I know that the wine monopoly to meet the increased interest has established separate departments for beer in the wine monopolies at the Quadrat in Sandnes and the Bank Quarter in Trondheim. The establishment is a test project and will be evaluated. I believe that the wine monopoly, through its sale and via the online store, provides good availability for a wide range of beers with more than 4.7 vol. alcohol. The monopoly of wine enables very many Norwegian and foreign producers to sell their products. It is likely that small-scale producers will have a more demanding shelf space in the retail trade than in the Wine Monopoly order selection. I perceive that the proposal has been promoted in the interests of small-scale producers and their customers. I believe, however, that the proposal will not be for their benefit. Small-scale producers will have difficulties in getting the same national coverage through the retail trade they are currently receiving through the monopoly system. Customers would also have a significantly lower selection to choose from. The proposal could also undermine the role of the wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument, and since the proposal distinguishes beer, it may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. I would therefore not recommend the Stortinget to adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e555	The Minister said in his speech that alcohol policy should be comprehensive and consistent — which, of course, we support — but what does that mean in practice? When, for the first time in 20 years, the Vinmonopolet shows that they have a reduction in their turnover, and also say in the leadership that it is not because of drinking less, but that you buy their goods via border trade and tax-free, does that concern the minister? And what does the Minister intend to do to strengthen the position of the Vinmonopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e560	I am concerned that the Vinmonopolet will strengthen its position, and we have also taken a number of measures to this end: we have opened up so that the Vinmonopolet can now have its products on its websites, which are likely to contribute to the increased use of the Vinmonopolet online store. We have also received the consent of Stortingen to extend the opening hours of the Vinmonopole. From next year, the monopoly on wine will remain open, for example. Pentecost evening – this year they had to stay closed – and New Year’s Eve and Easter evening. At the same time, it is also important to protect about the wine monopoly, which I, among other things, am. do not recommend the Storting to join this type of proposal. So it's true that the North travels more than ever. It also means that more people trade alcohol, either in the tax-free or abroad. I would remind you that our increase in the tax-free quota is conditional on one not using the tobacco quota, while the red-green increase in the tax-free quota was a one-sided increase, which for the first time opened up for the sale of wine in the box from the tax-free.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e567	What we've done before is now, but this is about the future, because it's now reducing the turnover of the wine monopoly, despite the fact that the beer part is increasing significantly. The size has ordered a case that goes on the tax-free system, so the next question is: When can we expect to get that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e574	The government follows up the Storting's request decision, and the matter will be presented to Stortingen when it is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e579	First, I would like to thank Minister of Health Höie for having been very clear on this matter. That meant a lot to the outcome. I've been thinking a lot about how we can get into a political situation where we have a political area that is so important to the four parties that are some of them about ruling the country together, that they state in the government platform that the main lines of the alcohol policy should be established – and on a case-by-case basis, the Christian People's Party, which is one party, goes to us and disagrees with the alcohol policy issues that are being developed. So I want to ask the Council of State what's actually going on that the main lines of alcohol policy are going to be fixed, when the government party and the cooperation party don't seem to be aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e586	What's in that formulation is very clear. This means that one should protect the wine monopoly, that we should have a tax level in Norway that contributes to a more moderate consumption of alcohol, that we should have regulated sales and gifts times and be clear on the advertising ban. All of these points follow the government as a government, because it is our responsibility to implement the policy contained in the cooperation agreement between the four parties. When it comes to how the four parties vote in Stortinget, one almost has to ask the representatives of the different parties about it, but I believe that on the part of the government we are following the cooperation agreement very clearly on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e593	I want to move on to another question, because I don't come with this anymore. We have had another case, which relates to the content declaration of alcohol. This applies to how you use the EEA Agreement legally, depending on the outcome of the case. We agreed to introduce alcohol content declarations, so that alcohol is the only product sold in Norway where there is no requirement to say what it contains, of sugar and other things. In that case, it was also shown that there was to be an outlay against EEA legislation. So I want to take advantage of the occasion today – since at least we have a case in the same policy area – to ask how it stands, and if the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with a matter of introducing the content declaration on alcoholic products.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e600	I have been very clear that I support the introduction of content labelling for alcoholic products, in line with all other products. I believe that consumers should have the right to know how much sugar, for example, also alcoholic beverages contain. What I said when the Storting took this up was that we wanted to wait for the process to take place in the EU to be part of the process that is going on there. That is something I work on and regularly mention in the formal ministerial meetings that we have in the EU, to be a driving force in that process. I believe it would be a great advantage for the European Union, as a single market in this area, had come up with common rules on labelling of alcoholic products as well. I believe that there is a discussion that is also taking place more widely in the other EU countries. I think it will come at some point, but we now want to be part of the process that is taking place in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e607	I thought it was a pity that the Council of State and the party to the Council of State did not want to support the proposal in Stortinget today. I understand that two counter-arguments are mainly being presented. The first one is that one is concerned that what makes up less than 3 pst. of the translation into the Vinmonopolet, shall be sold in grocery stores. This is a concern, at the same time as one has expanded – and suggested to expand – the tax-free quota significantly, which must be said to be in a slightly different category when it is a threat to the Wine Monopoly. The second argument is that one is concerned that alcoholic beverages other than beer should also have such access to grocery stores, for example. pages. At the same time, the government has proposed to extend the possibility of selling pages – which are much stronger than 7 pst. - from the garden outlet, for example. The Health Minister said it is important to have a consistent alcohol policy. My question is: does the Council of State think that this is a consistent alcohol policy, or is there any other argument behind the proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e617	Yes, this is a consistent alcohol policy. Such a proposal as the Stortinget has to deal with today would be much more radical in relation to the Vinmonopole scheme than, for example, it would be. it is a moderate extension of the tax-free quota, precisely because it challenges the very limit on which alcoholic products the wine monopoly must have and which has a public health justification. The marketing of alcohol with such a high volume – and also based on spirits – other than the wine monopoly would, in my view, much more undermine our justification for the wine monopoly in the EEA Agreement. I don't think there can be any doubt about that. When it comes to our work of opening up page sales from farm sales, it's precisely because there's a strong desire that it will have a positive effect on the industry. Here it is paradoxical that neither industry nor consumers will benefit from this proposal, and at the same time it will challenge the wine monopoly and alcohol policy. Then I can't find a single good reason for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e624	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e629	Finally, in the very last speech to the Council of State, in the last sentence, the word ‘consumers’ was finally included in the debate, and then in the wording that he could not see that this proposal had any benefit for consumers. It seemed strange to me, and I want to say that the will to detail the consumption pattern of people is great in this room, as always. I think in the light of history, this debate will look a little strange after a while. For it has been a major change in Norwegian alcohol culture and beer culture, and most would say a change for the better. But of course, when you see the very emergence of new and more exciting beer types and people's desire to consume them, today's very artificial limit seems to be 4.7 pst. for the grocery store more and more strange. I found, for example: It is strange that when I visit skilled entrepreneurs who run microbrews in Bygde-Noreg and make a good product, they do not get a pass at the Vinmonopolet that has a store on the other side of the street for the production site. But it is also not an alternative to sell them in the local store, because it is not allowed, and Stortingen does not want to be allowed. We also see a certain emergence of specialized beer shops, not only under the control of the Vinmonopolet, but in private, in different cities. They have to keep to a limit of 4.7 pst, which makes it difficult for them to grow and reach consumers. So it's also like that, and we should remind ourselves that not everyone in this country has a wine monopoly across the street. There are 99 municipalities in Norway that want wine monopoly and do not get it, and that have a long way to go to a place where they can buy new, exciting Norwegian beer product. The fact that this should weaken the Vinmonopoly as dramatic as the plural gives the impression – that there should be competition for what is then about 3 pst. of the translation into the Vinmonopoly - it is very difficult to understand. I think it is a pity that the Right Party, which often speaks the consumer's case, has a choice case, the competition case, in this case will block a large majority of people who could give consumers some more freedom of choice throughout the country. But I don't think this debate is going to go away. I think he's going to come back in line with developments in Norwegian culture going in the direction we see today, which most of us see as positive. I think it's positive that people can buy themselves a good local beer product that is less alcoholic than wine, and drink it for dinner if they want, in their local grocery store in the village. That possibility seemed to the Left that people should have, and I hope that the Greatness eventually comes to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e642	The left is concerned with people's offers in terms of a wide and diverse selection of beer. That's right too. But the question is whether it is best not to maintain the system you have today. The monopoly of wine includes small ‘batchers’, which it is called in the professional language, from the breweries. The left also indicates that there is little profitability in the breweries, and we all have microbreweries in our vicinity. My name is Sundbytunet and is located on Jessheim. They have now received one of their beers in the grocery store. This implies that they must produce 150 000 litres, and 1000 bottles, in a range. They also have to produce a fairly large volume. It takes millions of investments to produce for a brewery, while in the Wine Monopoly you can enter with small assortments, which will be accessible to everyone. Some also claim that larger plants and larger volumes may need to be available. The left is busy with the districts, and so are we. But it's not as easy for breweries to get into the nearby store in the districts as it is to get their beer into the wine monopoly selection. This is the way it is sent free of charge from the Vinmonopolet when you live in the districts, and if the breweries do not enter the groceries range, the beer will simply not be available in the same way as it is today. So that's why we probably have a much more similar view of how easy it can be to access a variety of beer types across the country, and in this case, we believe, as industry itself is doing, that it is best ensured through the system that is today – in the wine monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e649	I think it's important that you have two thoughts in your head at once. Of course, there is alcohol policy, and that is of course the main responsibility of the Health Committee, but it is also possible to be both concerned with public health and with the pursuit of good alcohol policies, while at the same time taking good care of business. And as the previous speaker said, everyone has some local producers involved in the production of beer or alcohol. In Telemark we have some who are even among the best in the world – it has at least been measured among the best: Lindheim Ølkompani. When the representative from the Right says that it is difficult to get into groceries, and therefore it seems that it is okay that the sale is on the Vinmonopolet, I know that many of the chains are concerned that local producers will be allowed to sell their products in the grocery stores, so I don't think it will be such a big problem. And for many of those who produce niches, it's not about being allowed to sell to all of Norway, but it's about being allowed to sell in their neighborhood, because that's where the customers are. That is where it is important to be allowed to enter the market – not to be allowed to sell all over the country. That is why I also agree that the proposal on which the Progress Party and the Left now agree is a good one. With regard to the debate that has been going on today, it seems that everything is going on the wrong way. But I would like to remind you of the report that has been made – it was at the University of Bergen – which shows that today young people both drink less and smoke less. At least it promises good for future generations when you see that there are fewer young people – actually 30 pst. less – now drinking than it was four years ago when a similar study was conducted. I think it's where you really have the great potential to meet these challenges, to make sure that the next generations are busy not starting with alcohol or having moderate consumption. So I think this debate is a little weird. Some people are so concerned about this with tax-free, but as the council also said, there are actually some other prerequisites that lie on the ground there, in order to allow you to bring with you one bottle of wine extra. The assumption is that you have to choose something else that you might think is so harmful, and someone would think it is even more harmful. That's the reason why. As I said, I do not believe that this will challenge the EEA Agreement. I think it will be fully possible to get this done, handle it in a good way and take care of local production and niche production, as well as alcohol policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e662	I just want to stress that I believe it is essential to secure the future of the wine monopoly that the Storting rejects this proposal today. We have a wine monopoly regime in Norway – as is the case in Sweden and Finland – which has a very clear public health justification. I would like to remind you that Sweden has a lower alcohol limit for sales in the store than what we have in Norway. There's the limit of 3.5 pst. Then it is a mistake that the representative Rotevatn claims that I did not mention consumers until the last reply to the representative. I also mentioned consumers in my main post, precisely because I believe that consumers would have access to a larger selection of products from microbreweries, could have been a good reason for this proposal, but it is the opposite that will happen if this proposal is adopted. It is about, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen also pointed out, that today's structure in the retail trade involves, first of all, that those who are to sell their products in Norwegian grocery stores must have a very large volume, and, second, that there is a strong competition for that shelf place. That means that the microbreweries that many people have been up on the pulpit here and the shelf had not had a chance to get into the Norwegian grocery store. And if they had, they would have been very quickly not microbreweries anymore, but quite large breweries, to be able to keep that volume -- while they through the wine monopoly system are available all over the country, with an online store accessible all over the country, delivery available all over the country. The strongest and safest argument that today’s regime is good for microbreweries is that all the hoards that have come to the diversity that has grown up in recent years are a tribute to a diversity that has grown up during today’s system. And when those who are behind this proposal draw attention to the breweries in their argument -- well, then one rather gets to listen to the breweries and hear what they say, and they warn against the proposal. Those who would welcome the adoption of this proposal are the international alcohol industry, which had immediately gained a significantly greater opportunity to sell alcohol-based products — finished products — to young people through the wholesale trade in Norway, where a much larger range of cannabis would be available to the youngest age groups. That would be very wrong in terms of alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e673	It's a very interesting debate, it's a very clarifying debate. I would first like to thank the Council of State Höie for rejecting the proposal from the Left and thanking for the fact that there are still value-conservative fundamentals in the Right Party. It's something that's not so common. It is quite strong to experience how the Left has now shifted him – the Left, which in its time was very clear that it should be a social liberal party. ‘Social’ meant something, not least when it comes to what we are talking about now, namely that one should organise society so that one took due account of weak groups as well. One was liberal, so one was open, but it has now been replaced by economic liberalism. Economic liberalism is so urgent that one here finds it natural to be with the Progress Party, and there are many deterrents, but here it is the economic liberalism that emerges – freely. It is seen as a progress, and it is considered quite natural that alcohol should have a strong place, even a stronger place, in social life when people gather. I have to say that gradually I have become quite clear about how alcohol today forms social life, and this proposal will, in consequence, mean that one should have even more focus on it. For the centre party, regulating the supply of alcohol is completely natural, and it is very natural to limit what is to be sold in stores. Alcohol policy is national policy; it is not district policy; it is policy for the whole country. When we talk about entrepreneurs, it's more important for us in the Center Party to cheer up the entrepreneurs who manage to obtain drinks that don't have alcohol than those that have alcohol. There are certain positions you need to have when you're going to be a political leader for a rather turbulent time, and so we're very happy that the Right now does not go into this proposal. It is strong – I repeat my seas – that we now have two political twins, the Progress Party and the Left, who are so clearly driving this matter forward. I know many, both in the Progress Party and in the Left, who feel that the company is not particularly forward-looking, because when one comes from an area where the supply of locally produced alcohol has been high over time, one sees that we have made a great effort to get away from that tradition. We have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e693	I shall not go into the question of who, if any, the representative Lundtigen is political twins, but I doubt that the comparison would fall out favourably. What I would like to add is that describing the Left's drug policy as 'free-to-air', as the representative Lundtigen does, must only be a consequence of the fact that the representative has followed extremely poorly on what goes through this room and what is being proposed. For example, about him. had taken the time to read Left’s alternative state budget, the representative would see that the Left proposed to increase the taxes on alcohol on spirits and heavy alcoholic beverages on the basis of a health argument. He also wanted to know that the Left proposed to restrict the tax-free regime. But we have a knowledge-based approach to drug policy and look at each other separately, and in this case one should look at the arguments that apply. I accept most of the health policy arguments that emerge, although I am not necessarily in agreement with them, but it is clear that health policy arguments are the very basis for the argument that we have restrictions on alcohol sales in Norway. But those are the other arguments I found strange. The fact that Right e.g. Here, it is thought that one gets a much better supply, more shortages, better consumer terms because only one operator – one operator, instead of several operators – has the ‘presumption’ against itself. And yes, of course, it is that if a local producer does not get their products into the grocery store either, it will be demanding, but it will still not be possible to translate their products if anyone wants to buy them, because one would then have the opportunity to sell them from his factory store, from his brewery – it does not have one today because of the 4.7 pst. limit. Otherwise, one might be tempted to move on to Right’s argument and say that the consumer would probably have had a much better supply of weaker beer if it were monopolised – and perhaps also other beverages and food products. I mean it has the 'presumption' against itself. So I will say last but not least that this is not the most important thing in the world. Consumer goods are rarely the most important things in the world. But I don't stop wondering about the enormous commitment and the pathos one can pull into every single thing that's about making everyday life a little easier for people, making it a little easier to get the chance to try out all the exciting new products that have come within Norwegian beer culture in the last few years. As I said in my first post, I believe that in the light of history that resistance will look a little strange, but it will be the other thing that will eventually be judged.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e710	This debate has brought us into an interesting discussion if you look at it over time. The left is probably the only party here in the Chamber that has proposed through the alternative state budget to wind up the entire tax-free regime. The previous government, with the Central Party Minister of Transport, arranged for a long-term agreement for Avinor until 2023, by which the Stortinget is now trapped. It will cost billions of dollars to get out of that agreement, so discussing the tax-free arrangement in Norway today is impossible. The paradox is that when it saves small airports in the districts, the alcohol is useful enough. I think it's a significantly bigger debate than discussing 4.7 pst. shall be the limit in the retail trade and 160 breweries shall be provided with shelf space in the food chain. I also think it's interesting, the discussion that came up here related to the food chain and what developments we see in food production in Norway, where Pizza Grandiosa and 4.7 pst. beer are what we're going to look for in Norway, and where Orkla is the big player, who dominates more and more actors, more producers. If we want such a streamlined form of Norwegian food production, yes, there won't be much left in the districts. There is a worrying development that I think we should devote a little more space, especially in these days, when we are discussing the agricultural negotiations and other things. Who's going to have access to those shelf meters? There won't be any very exciting developments if we want so few producers. With regard to the discussion on the brewery sector, we have not heard all aspects of the matter, because it is clear that the 4.7 pst. limit also protects about the large manufacturers. There is also a discussion that belongs in this debate: who is it that gets access to those shelf meters? It is not those who are in a start-up phase and who have major challenges in getting production started. As both the representative Sveinung Rotevatn and the representative Bård Hoksrud were here, it is the neighbourhoods that are the market for these actors. We're not talking about volume production. This is a discussion about taste, about 4.7 pst. and to help out the small actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e721	The centre party agrees with the Left to increase the fees. With regard to the tax-free scheme, it is perfectly obvious that the use of tax-free sales as an argument for Avinor to earn revenues in order to maintain district airports is an argument that is not valid. Obviously, that's not the argument; securing airports all over the country is a national responsibility that we have regardless of what economy Avinor gets from selling alcoholic beverages. I agree that the agreement that was concluded under the previous government was quite special. I know that those who signed the agreement were very happy about it. They make hard money on this, and there can be many questions about how in all the world the deal could go through, but it's not time for this today. I also agree with the representative, Kjeseth, who says that there is a need for greater diversity in the shops. It's a maritime critique that not least the Center Party should take, that one has been far too little vital in getting the diversity around. This needs to increase efforts and, in interaction with the food chain, it needs to make them see that having a greater diversity will also increase their turnover. What is at the heart of this case is really what is the argument to allow starch in shops. It has been said on the left that it is the consumer who has the argument, i.e. that the consumer needs stronger drugs from the store than what is today. For the centre party, there is no consumer argument. There are some consumers who want it, but there are other consumers who don't want it. What's at the core is that several of us are working to bring down the alcohol consumption – it's going down. We have a number of concerns about stabilising alcohol consumption, which is still increasing in large groups. There is a wrong development, the consumption of alcohol should decrease, and then there is no consumer argument that it should facilitate the purchase of alcohol – and thus the consumption is increasing. With regard to the argument about entrepreneurs, there is a lot a founder can do – a lot of that goes on processing agricultural products that can become food and beverages. Here it's a well to grasp, and it happens too. If the government, the Left and the Advance Party made it possible for the economy in the well-being of products that are being brought forward, so that there was an economy in it, that's where you should bet. The alcohol line -- it's very wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e740	It was the representative Kjeseth who got me to take the floor, because I react when it is presented as if it is completely impossible for today's plural to do something with, among other things. the tax-free arrangements. It is true that the Left has the program fixed that they will terminate the entire tax-free scheme, but nevertheless it was the left's voice that created multiple numbers here in the Storting to increase the tax-free quotas. I didn't think the policy was consistent when they signaled that they were in favour of the tax-free regime, but it's the party that makes the arrangements expand. That's the one thing left has been on. Another thing, which I mention in a reply, is the labelling of alcohol, where there were also left-wing voices it was on in the Stortingen to get a faster implementation of this measure. The centre party also had a proposal to have the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free scheme, which we have programmed. There was also the left hand voice it stood on to get a principle decision on it. The left was also the party in the Stortinget, which allowed the government party to have multiple numbers in order to get new norms for the reaction to the violation of the alcohol law, which allowed one – in all the big cities today’s practices – to give more excessive amounts of alcohol and one to minors, without any further loss of the grant. The things I'm referring to are the Center Party refers to when we say that this is a series of proposals that the Left has contributed to in the Stortinget, which have led the alcohol policy in the wrong direction. The left is, surprisingly, very concerned with drug treatment, and I say it's not for no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e753	I find it quite strange that when we discuss a relatively simple proposal, we should spend so much time characterising each other's policies. I will give tribute to Lundtegen because he has discovered that there is an enclave of value conservatism in the Right. We'll probably surprise the representative all the time away from the fall when the valuables come in line. I'm not quite in that description of the Right as an ultra-liberal party as the one that came out here. With regard to this matter, it is such that if it had been a good proposal, I would have voted in favour of it. But this is not a good proposal – it is a bad proposal. Who did I listen to? I have listened to the actors involved: the importers, the manufacturers and the restraining movement. No one in the hearing thought this was a good idea. Why, then, should we introduce this proposal? If I had been against the Wine Monopoly, I would have voted for it. It's quite obvious that this will do a lot for the wine monopoly. The Council of State has presented it in an excellent manner. It would also increase for other beverages up to 7 pst. Another point is that the EEA Agreement was actually confirmed after this percentage limit for alcohol was adopted in 1992, so there is a new situation there as well. I suggest that we go in for a landing, and then we agree that we vote for this. Then we can save the alcohol debate for another time. Now we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e764	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e767	It was the post from the representative Kjersti Toppe that I have to make some comments to. She was talking about an extension of the tax-free system. Under today's government there has been no extension of the scheme. There has been a change in what can be taken with either tobacco or wine or beer. It was under the previous government that there was an extension. In terms of alcohol labelling, the left is for it – it should be lacking. As Councillor Höie was in on, it's about the time of introducing that labeling scheme, and the Left has suggested that in this context, we could make pilots just linked to microbreweries. As regards the acquisition of the tax-free scheme for the Vinmonopoly, it is also linked to the economic challenges. It's a demanding debate, it'll cost us billions, and it's a social debate and not an alcohol debate. With regard to the checkup, it is not a question of liberalisation, but of a uniform offer across Norway, for which the Left is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e792	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, is given the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e801	Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative to let Tinn City take over Rjukan Hospital free of charge. The proposers point out that the Minister of Health and Health at the Enterprise Meeting on 5 June 2014 confirmed the decision of the Hospital Telemark HF in the 2014-2016 development plan, which involves the closure of the emergency and daily services at Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital. The sale was authorised with, inter alia, a statement that the properties will first be offered to the municipalities in accordance with the leadership of the interaction reform. It is worth pointing out that the leaders of the sale in this case are the same ones that are taken into account in all matters relating to the sale of property from the specialist health service, so this was not specific to the sale of the Rjukan hospital. Following this approval, the municipality of Hospital Telemark and Tinn have been in dialogue about the possible sale of the building stock to the municipality of Tinn. By the end of 2015, Rjukan’s buildings had an book value of 28 million. kr and a fare of 43,2 million. NOK, and the hospital has not accepted a bid from the municipality of 7 million. kr. The Council of State has been clear in its reply letter to the Committee on this matter. The Ministry shall determine annually, in the light of the decisions taken by the Storting, the financial requirements and the framework for regional health establishments. Regional health establishments shall ensure the achievement of the objectives and the proper operation within those limits. Giving away values from the specialist health service will be clearly in conflict with this. A gift or sale at a sub-price from the specialist health service to the municipality is considered to be an asset transfer between two sectors. The Health Business Act does not open up to give up property in gift or to sell property at a price that is obviously lower than the market price. The Minister for Health has been aware that transferring funds from the specialist health service to the local government sector cannot be done without it being treated as a budgetary matter in the Grand Duchy, and it is not appropriate to promote such a case. But perhaps the most important argument in this case is that there is no difference between this sales case and a number of other sales cases within the specialist health service. In a number of such sales, the municipalities have purchased at a market price, and I would like to show here that Kragerø Municipality has submitted a bid at Kragerø Hospital of 63 million. kr, which is the established market value of the hospital. If the proposal presented today were to be given a majority, it would appear to be totally unfair to municipalities that have made purchases at market value. Sauda, Ashim and Sarpsborg are examples of such municipalities. We believe that it is unfortunate that the specialist health service on sale in the future cannot use the market value. A sale below market value or a transfer free of charge requires health-care providers to take an accounting loss and other investments planned as a result of the sale must be reduced accordingly. In addition, I would just like to point out what the precedent this creates in the future – like for example. for the sale of barley on Ullevål or for the sale of defence buildings. This could in the long term lead to a significant loss of income for health enterprises and thus to the depletion of the specialist health service for resources. Against this background, the Right will not support the proposal promoted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e816	This case has many sides, and this is just one of them. The problem is that they're connected, and maybe for a pretty good reason. On the one hand, the hospital at Rjukan in Tinn Municipality, which is part of the Hospital Telemark, has been adopted as part of the development plan implemented by the Hospital Telemark for approx. one and a half years ago. At the same time, it is foreseen in the development plan that more services, including specialist health services, will continue to be decentralised in the hospital, and in that development plan they have – as far as I know – also opened up so that more services can be added to Rjukan if necessary. At the same time, it's opened up for the buildings to be sold. The Labour Party and I do not agree with the proposers, who believe that a hospital building should be given away for free. It would create – as Troeen just explained – unfortunate signals both for those who have carried out disposals, sales and purchases in the past and for the future. But there is a difference between giving away something for free and operating in a very special and very special place, which, with all due respect, is not comparable to selling, for example. some of the country's most expensive properties in the center of Oslo. When using the Ullevål hospital buildings as an example that would be transferable to Rjukan, at the heart of a valley where there is one way in and one way out, or Kragerø, for that matter, they have – with all due respect – a slightly different market and market conditions than one has for buildings regulated for specialist healthcare purposes inside Rjukan. That is really the question we are asking ourselves, and we therefore believe that the Council of State should be able to contribute actively to finding a more amicable solution between the municipality of Tinn and the hospital Telemark. What is a building regulated for hospital purposes in Rjukan — a city with 6,000 inhabitants — worth today? Yes, we have a market value, a rate, but so have we. We went back to find the fare, the market price and the book values when Sauda Hospital was disposed of in its time. There were also quite high estimates that were adjusted a number of times, and finally a friendly solution was found with the municipality. I have not answered what it should be today, and the Labour Party on Stortinget does not require us to adopt a price here. But in a case that has such a special history, where it is not quite obvious what such a property should be taxed to, and in addition, there should be quite extensive use of healthcare in the future, perhaps also specialist health services, the government parties and the majority, with the history of this matter, should contribute to finding an amicable solution, in our view. I therefore take up the proposal that we have made, and ask the Council of State to comment on whether there have not been other examples in the past where so-called non-market solutions have been found to this type of situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e827	The representative of Torgeir Mikalsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e830	I think it is incredibly important in this case that you are principled in relation to what you mean. I think the matter in itself is quite special – that the centre party suggests, when two hospitals are to be laid down, which is in quite a similar position, that one should be taken over free of charge. The other thing you don't care very much about, at least you haven't made a representative proposal that goes on the same thing. I know that the municipality on which there is no proposal today, if the proposal for the Central Party were to go through, would come to the Stortinget and ask for the same thing. Because it's clear that this is about how to treat, and how to be principled. I record that the representative Micaelsen says that this is not the case, that this does not have the same consequences as in other cases, but that must be the case. And I know that if the Workers' Party had been in government, the Workers' Party would definitely have been concerned that you have to be principled and make sure that the different things are treated the same way. If you were to follow the proposal of the Center Party in full, that means that if Ullevål hospital were to be moved, one of the insiders in Oslo Centre had to be given free of charge to the Municipality of Oslo. I don't think anyone in this room would think that would be good for the specialist health service. Perhaps the Environment Agency in Oslo would be pleased because she could then make a great bicycle deposit on Ullevål, subsidized by the Stortinget and at the expense of those who need care and care. I might not think so. That's a little bit like what you have to be. You have to be principled about what this is all about. It seems to me that the Centre Party, which has won the election to preserve the Rjukan Hospital and also to have the rapporteur in Rjukan, operates at the border of political camaraderie, because here one has to make sure to take over this property completely free of charge, without paying anything for it. The consequences of this are that all patients, including those living in Tinn and all other patients, will suffer from the patient treatment in Telemark, because the Center Party does not propose that the State take the bill. This means that it is the hospital company locally that has to make sure that the deficit of today’s proposal is met, and that will affect patient treatment. I think everyone here agrees that you're definitely going to see that this isn't going to be sold for the price that is the value per day, but I think it's completely wrong if the Storting should go into the discussion about what to set the price at or not set the price at, especially because there are other hospitals that are in exactly the same situation, and how much of the same debate will then come up. I hope – and it looks like the majority is going to be very clear – that you have to go further here. I also want to ask the Center Party if they think it is such a way to send a case to Stortinget because you have spent a long time trying to see if you can reach an agreement between the municipality and the hospital. Yes, if you think that sending the case to Stortinget makes it faster, at least I believe that the hospital board would not make the decision to make one or the other decision, as long as the matter is dealt with in this house. Now, when we deal with the matter, I hope that something will happen quickly, and that hopefully it will be a good solution. From this government you have tried, and you work to look at possible solutions for things you might have on Rjukan. In any case, government representatives have mentioned different things there, and we know that there are private people who want to come in, in addition to the fact that the specialist health service is also going to use parts of the hospital that are there today, just to ensure that there will still be specialist health services in Rjukan again. I'm very pleased with that as telemarking. But I think it's important now that we're principled, and we have to think longer than just this one hospital. You actually have to see the consequences and what it means for the whole country if you were to do this. To put this into a different perspective, many people want things to happen to Drammen Hospital, for example. I'm not sure it would be for the best for healthcare if you had to give away the hospital in Drammen for free because you're going to build another hospital somewhere else. Many of that money would have to be spent on building the new hospital. I'm glad it looks like a majority wants to vote against the proposal of the Central Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e849	First of all, I would like to thank the Center Party for having highlighted an important matter. As the discussion about the proposal also demonstrates, health care for the population is about something far more basic than buying and selling. Good and accessible health services are important for people’s health and safety. It is also valuable that a new establishment in the municipality of Tinn helps to strengthen and further develop the overall service provision to Telemark’s citizens. In 1971, Hydro sold the hospital building on Rjukan to the public for one penny. Rjukan Hospital has now been offered for sale on the open market for 43.2 million. kr. The sale was approved by the Minister of Health at a business meeting on 7 October 2015, where there were also indications that the property would first be offered to the municipality, in line with the intention of the cooperation reform. Tin municipalities want to use the building for healthcare in collaboration with specialist health services and any private health providers. The Christian People's Party believes that it is valuable and important that it is organized for such a solution. Close and good dialogue between specialist health services and the municipality is essential to ensure an optimal offer that facilitates a good professional environment and a good offer to patients. The solution could contribute to the development and strengthening of the service provision to Telemark’s citizens both in the municipal health service and in the specialist health service. I have understood that the discussion has in particular concerned whether or not the EEA legislation is being challenged, whether or not it opens up for the municipality of Tinn to take over Rjukan hospital free of charge. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate the purchase of Rjukan hospitals by the municipality of Tin, but is, of course, at the same time concerned with the need to facilitate a clean process that is not contrary to EEA law. That is why we are today agreeing to the proposal to find an amicable solution within the EEA legislation for the sale of Rjukan hospital from the Hospital Telemark to the municipality of Tinn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e860	On 5 June 2014, Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie Sjukehuset Telemark HF confirmed its decision in the 2014-2016 development plan. The development plan meant that one should shut down the emergency and daily supply of Rjukan hospitals, but it should still be a future specialist healthcare service there, such as dialysis, cell toxicity treatment, specialist outpatient clinics and x-ray and laboratory services. The development plan also stated that ‘it should be assessed on an ongoing basis on the basis of patient needs and technical possibilities for the creation of further decentralised services’. This was also clearly stated by Minister of Health Höie in his statement in this Chamber on 17 June 2014. The centre party lost the case on the Telemark development plan, but we do not accept that the development plan approved by the Minister for Health itself is not being followed up. The hospital Telemark has placed Rjukan hospital outside the hall, and that is the background to our proposal. The fact that the Sjukehuset Telemark was selling its local hospitals was not mentioned in the development plan. No mention was made of this as a financing of the developments that were to take place. Now the situation is that the municipality and the health care company have not been able to price. It is apparent that the EEA rules do not prevent the company from selling below market prices, for example. is shown in an account by lawyer Per Andreas Bjørgan, on the initiative of the municipality of Tinn. The Government and the Department have not responded to the request. The Council of State and the majority of the parties believe that the municipality should not take over the hospital free of charge, as suggested by the Centre Party in this case – nor does the Workers' Party. That is exactly what I thought was a little strange, because we noticed a letter sent to Bent Höie on 19 June 2015 by Terje Aasland, who strongly urged that “the building mass in its entirety be returned to Tin Municipality without any compensation” – the building mass of Rjukan Hospital. Reference is made to Section 32 of the Health Insurance Act in the reply from the Council of State. It states that «hospital activities cannot be sold without the consent of the Storting». The health insurance law notes that ‘hospital activities’ means hospitals in operation’. I mean from the development plan that it is still operational, should have our operations, at Rjukan hospital. The comments further state that ‘sales of hospital activities are of such importance to the development of the specialist health service and the ability to achieve the policy objectives, that the matter must be subject to satisfactory democratic treatment. The provision therefore provides that the Storting must consent to the sale of hospital activities.» It is therefore clear from the health insurance laws that the caregiver, § 32, is there to ensure that the case is handled democratically and to put a procedural barrier to the privatisation of the hospital business. The fact that the Storting should have the decisive word in terms of the hall of health care establishments was laid down in the Health Insurance Act when it was adopted in 2001. We therefore believe that we also have a foundation in the law when we ask that this matter be taken up in Stortinget, and that one can transfer the hospital building to the municipality. The government councils and the government party indicate that it is not appropriate to make a separate budgetary case for the Storting linked to the disposal of Rjukan hospital. They refer to equal treatment in relation to the corresponding issues both today and in the future. The central party believes that it is especially to sell a hospital building that there should be specialist health care in both now and in the future, according to what the state council itself has said, and we believe that one cannot compare the hall of Ullevål and the hall of Rjukan, for what is actually the market value of Rjukan hospital in Rjukan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e877	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e880	Yes, I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e885	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e889	For the Left, it is important to have a principle approach to this matter. As many people have experienced, there are several who have both been and are in similar situations with buildings used for health purposes. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, an example that has not been mentioned here today, has transferred many buildings in the first place to the county municipalities. Secondly, the buildings have been transferred to health establishments and to the property of the country. Some of them are also associated with discussions about further use and who should be the owner if the country would like to sell some of these properties today – whether there are encumbrances related to this building mass when it is given away for free, or for one penny. There is one side to this matter. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, went to another side of the matter. This concerns Kragerø and Rjukan and whether or not to discriminate between the two municipalities. Another issue, which has also been raised by others, concerns other State property relating to defence and other sectors, and that there is a demanding route on which the Stortinget is committed to supporting the proposal of the Central Party for a free transfer. There has been an alternative from the Labour Party to an amicable solution. One question to ask is, what is a friendly solution? And what is the role of the Greatness related to adopting it? The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen used the example of Sauda. As far as I am aware, the example was not adopted in Stortinget. There is one fundamental difference, and it is possible to find an amicable solution between the buyer and the seller in this case without the Storting being brought onto the track to say something about what the sum should be. Then we are also in the discussion about what is conversion support for a municipality. It may be decided by the Storting with a slightly different framework than to go into a grant related to a building. I must also say, since this has been a controversial matter in the municipality of Tinn, in Rjukan and so far in the whole of Telemark, that when we discussed the issue of the closure of Rjukan Hospital – also on the initiative of the Center Party – we promoted e.g. Left a proposal in that case to wait for the hospital to be closed until we had a complete discussion on the national health and hospital plan. It did not support the Christian People's Party then, but chose to support the government and confirm the government's closure of the hospital at Rjukan in line with the wishes of the Hospital Telemark. In this case, the Christian People's Party chooses another way and supports the Workers' Party in a so-called amicable solution. I'm taking this up because there's two very different things. A discussion was whether the hospital should be closed. Today, we are discussing a completely different issue, namely how to deal with an economic issue and transfer between actors. This illuminates the principal aspects of this matter. There is also a explanation of vote as to why the Left in this case chooses to support the government that the Storting should have no role at present in adopting an amount for what we may be supporting the municipality of Tinn in the continuation – among others. because we will face a number of similar issues in many state sectors in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e902	Only to the last speaker: Subsidiars attached to construction have we used many times in this hall as a tool for conversion. There's nothing extraordinary about it. One gets the impression that it is the finance committee that is discussing here today, not the health committee. There is a lot of talk about finances, and the very thoughts about health are completely gone here, especially for those who want to go against the proposal of the Center Party. I hereby indicate where SV is in this case. The need for hospitalization will increase sharply in the time to come. By 2040, the number of 80-year-olds will double. We'll get a lot of growth in the number of heavy users in health services. Even if the elderly in the future will be healthier than they are today, a higher life expectancy will lead to an increase in the incidence of resource-requiring diseases. Diseases a formerly killed at the age of 80, people will survive to a greater extent. And before time passes, many years later, more than ever will develop dementia, suffer hip fractures, have heart failure and strokes. In such a situation, it is not to be avoided that we need to increase the capacity of Norwegian hospitals. Then it's strange that hospitals are laid down. In Telemark, the County Council concluded that the hospital that provided irresponsible patient treatment led to serious complications and several deaths in 2015. The hospital Telemark has worn chronic overcoats after it was decided that hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø would be laid down. At the same time, new hospitals are also designed not to accommodate Corridor Asians. Kalnes in Sarpsborg is a very talkative example, which already a few weeks after opening had the first corridor patients in place. This is caused by an entry problem, said Hoie at the time. Since then, orthopaedic alarms have been triggered because they have to break up with their patients. They have simply had to wait too long for the necessary operation because of the lack of operational capacity, and since that time they have, for example, Carcinogenic Ruth was called in only three months after the start of cancer treatment. The reason was again capacity problem. Unfortunately, there are many such stories in Sjukehus-Noreg, and the number is going to increase with government strategy: building down while the need is increasing. There is in this perspective the discussion of the takeover of the Rjukan must be understood. Now the hospital is at Finn.no, after the Minister of Health has decided to close down. It should be sold to the highest bidder. It's to ensure the hospital economy. The Finn advertisement is a symbol that the hospital economy has become more important than the health policy in this country under the blue-blue government. It was another time when health was most important, when Hydro gave away the building for a crown because they saw it in the interest of society that a public hospital should be built. That thought stuff is now gone. In fact, the government's line can also destroy regional efforts to settle on the legs of just capacity in the health service, and it is shown – brand-new – to precedents and EEA rules. SV will only vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party in this matter – not subsidiary to that of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. With the peculiar history of the hospital in Rjukan, it is not musical to hide behind neither hospital economy nor EEA rules. For us, what is being put into the «minimal solution» of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is completely unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e923	In this case, I just have to refer to the letter I have already written to the Committee on the matter on 9 February 2016. The sale of Rjukan Hospital was approved by me at the corporate meeting on 7 October 2015. The Ministry lays down annual economic requirements and the framework for health regions in the light of the decision of the Storting. Regional health establishments shall ensure the achievement of the objectives and the proper operation within those limits. Giving away values from the specialist health service would have been clear against this. The Ministry considers a gift or sale at a sub-price from the specialist health service to the municipality to be a property transfer between two sectors. The Health Business Act does not open to give property in gift or to sell property at a price that is obviously lower than market price. Such a case must be promoted as a budgetary matter for the Stortinget. It has not been relevant for the government to promote such a matter related to the Rjukan hospital. Equal treatment must be the guiding principle both in this case and in similar matters in the future. Health enterprises both have, have had and will in the future need to sell property. Health undertakings shall not be in possession of buildings they do not need but sell, and shall use these values for the further development of the specialist health service, precisely for the benefit of patients. Giving up property leads to loss of income and reduces the scope and further development of health businesses, in this case the Hospital Telemark. The size is granted at postal level, and if we believe that the municipal offer should be strengthened at the expense of the specialist health service, the Stortinget must make a clear decision on this. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee points out that there is no difference between this sales case and a number of other sales cases that have been handled within the specialist health service since 2012. Those who in this case call for the hospital building on Rjukan to be donated to the municipality of Tinn, are actually sending the bill to someone else, namely to the other patients in the hospital Telemark. The Hospital Telemark will be the one who will be left with the bill on the gift that the minority in Stortinget today wants to give to Tinn municipality. If this is the case that a person wants to compensate the municipality of Tin to a greater extent than the Stortinget has already done, because the hospital in Rjukan was closed, he has a full opportunity to do so in the various budgets a doctor in Stortinget. But then, in this case, Stortinget should give priority to funding for this and not ask the Hospital Telemark to find the means and give priority to this at the expense of what is the task of the Hospital Telemark – a task they have received from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e935	I notice that while the health company has argued very strongly with the EEA legal dimensions in such a case, Minister of Health Bent Höie does not. He argues rather along the more principled economic trail, and therefore I think it's okay to clarify a couple of relationships. One is: Is it the position of the Minister of Health – and also the position of the government – that the most important thing for the health company, the Hospital Telemark, is to have it sold at market price, and that then it is almost insignificant what is to be done in the current building? Will it, for example? be such that it is okay to operate hotels, malls or other commercial activities, only the purchase price is at the price charged to Finn.no?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e940	No, and that is why I have already followed up what I believe must be the content of the Workers' Party's proposal today, namely the desire to find a good solution with the municipality. Therefore, leadership has been given in the business meeting that the construction should be offered to the municipality first. But then it's very wise that those who have the competence to assess the property of the building, those who have the financial responsibility, are also those who negotiate what should be the reasonable price between the two parties. I'm not going to act like the amateurs who set up the TV show 'Sold!' and try to find prices that are better than what the professionals here find out. The conditions that the representative Micaelsen drew out are perfectly correct conditions that will affect the price, but I think it's a good idea that the Hospital Telemark and Tinn Municipality are discussing them, and that we're not doing this here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e947	I thank you for the answer, and I think this was a little more uplifting than the answers that both the Council of State and, in part, the representatives of the government parties have argued so far, and also the representative Bård Hoksrud, who, to those degrees, has been able to learn the speech points of the Ministry of Finance in a very short time, after he became a member of the Health Committee. For this matter is not black-and-white. State Council Höie can certainly confirm in the change in line here afterwards that there have been cases before where there is initially a so-called market value, but it is difficult – as with everything else, many places in Norway – to estimate what should be the right market price. That is why the Workers' Party does not suggest that we support proposals that give away the hospital as a gift, or help to give an exact price. But I want to repeat the question in a slightly different way: what will the Council of State Bent Höie actively contribute to finding an amicable solution in the matter, instead of just pushing all the principal sides in front of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e954	I believe that the representative Hoksrud and the others who have spoken from the government parties and from the left in this matter have been very clear on the important principle, which I feel the Workers' Party also agrees with, namely the reason for not supporting the proposal of the Centre Party. As far as the Labour Party's proposal is concerned, I believe that it has been taken care of through the corporate meeting, where I have said that a first person should try to find a solution with the municipality. It is entirely in line with what has also been done in the past, which the representative is also involved in. But if the Storting had now adopted the Workers' Party's proposal – after the leadership that I have already given in the corporate meeting – it would be perceived that one had intervened in these negotiations that are currently in progress. I think it will be a great advantage, as the representative Hoksrud also pointed out, that the Storting is now finishing this case, so that those who are going to negotiate can negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e961	Today, the municipality of Tinn is renting 1,070 m2 of the hospital building for medical and other municipal services, such as rehabilitation. The Council of State approved the development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF at a business meeting on 5 June 2014. According to the approved development plan, there should still be hospital services at Rjukan following the closure of the emergency and daily services. Among other things, the development plan included day-care services such as dialysis, cell toxicity treatment, specialist outpatient clinics and X-ray and laboratory services in Rjukan. Based on the fact that this development plan is still in force, it is quite surprising that the Council of State approves the sale of Rjukan hospitals, which will continue to provide public specialist health services in the future. Since the sale of the hospital was not part of the development plan for 2014–2016, I must ask the Minister for Health: Is it the case that the premises underlying this development plan have now changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e969	No, the premises have not changed. As I also said in my post: When the specialist health service is on large masses of buildings that they themselves do not use essential parts of, it makes sense that they look at the possibility of selling this. But in this case – as the lead was from the business meeting – it would also have been a good solution if it was the municipality that bought the building. I am not going to give the Hospital Telemark leadership in this matter, which will mean that the municipality as the negotiator can dictate the price they want to pay. It is precisely here that the two parties must meet and find a sensible solution jointly. Guides from me or from Stortinget, which in practice mean that the municipality can only dictate the price, will go at the expense of the other patients for whom the Hospital Telemark is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e974	The Council of State says that the premises have not changed, i.e. that the development plan of the Hospital Telemark, approved by the Council of State on 5 June 2014, is in place. That development plan defines the specialist health service areas to be performed at Rjukan Hospital. That's what's going on, and my question is then so simple: Will the Council of State say that Rjukan Hospital is currently in operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e980	No, there is no hospital operation at Rjukan Hospital today, in line with the leaders who are also in the National Health and Hospital Plan, to which the Stortinget has joined. It's a specialist health service there, but it's not a nearby hospital, or a little emergency hospital, which is the term. So it's specialist health service today. With regard to the reference that the representative Toppe had to the specialist health service law, I would like to stress that what is described there is hospital activity. It's about that if as a state council I had come up with the perceptive idea, for example. selling the Hospital Telemark business to a private operator, had had to come to Stortinget with it, of course. But I have absolutely no plans for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e987	I think it is a bit alarming that the Minister of Health said that the Labour Party proposal was the same as the starting point for the negotiations that the government and health professionals now have with the municipality of Tinn. It was said that there was a primal hold here. A principle is when one applies the same idea to the same case. That's the starting point. This means that if one has a completely identical or equivalent case, one shall apply the same principle to the corresponding example. Can the Minister of Health come up with one example from Health Norway where the history is similar to that which has been around Rjukan Hospital, where one has been transferred to the hospital for a crown from Hydro?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e994	I do not have a complete overview of it now, but it is not unique that buildings that are currently used for public hospital operations have a historical origin from private gifts. Another example of this is Nordfjord Hospital, which was given in gift in its time. I can't remember now if Sauda Hospital had the same story, but I can't rule it out. There are a number of other hospitals that are also partly built up by large collections. However, the origin of the building will have no impact on the economic legislation in force in this area and on the law in force in this area. It's ownership now that matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e999	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1004	In this setting, the Labour Party has a proposal where a requested government helps to find a decent solution within the EEA legislation for the Hall of Rjukan Hospital from Sjukehuset Telemark to Tinn Municipality. The centre party has a comment in the vote saying that the centre party will be able to vote subsidiaryly for this proposal, referring to our primary proposal that the municipality of Tinn should take over Rjukan Hospital free of charge. After listening to the debate here today, we are going to do as SV – we are going to vote for our proposal and no one else. It is also such that referring to EEA legislation does not have any meaning, because the case has revealed very clearly that it is not the problem. Nor has the State Council addressed its response to the Committee. That's the money question it's made a point of and that this is supposed to be part of and finance everything else that's going to happen in the Sjukehuset Telemark. If the Labour Party actually meant what they said, the proposal could be written in a slightly different way. At least we insist that this can be given free of charge if the Storing sees the value of it. Then I react that here we are told that the development plan does not apply, that there is no hospital business, and should not be, at Rjukan. I have found a quote from State Council Höie from 17 June 2014, when the decision on the Sjukehuset Telemark was made here in this room. Then he said, ‘I also hope that this decision will start a renewed and enhanced cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn on the development of joint healthcare between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn on the development of joint healthcare between the municipal health service and the specialist health service for the areas to remain in the hospital in Rjukan. There are outpatient services and day services, and there will also be the possibility to develop better cooperation between medical services, immediate help beds, etc.’.» What we're told today is that there's nothing left. That's fine, we've been saying that all along. We have not adopted the development plan, but we have taken it for granted that he will be followed up, and therefore we have reacted that one has placed the hospital in the open market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1018	I would also like to stress strongly that this should not change the premises on which the development plan was based in the case of the Hospital Telemark. Those premises were important when we dealt with this matter in Stortinget on 17 June 2014, as explained. So I hope that the Council of State will follow this closely, and that he will also follow up what he has been about in his answers here, that you try to get an amicable solution with the municipality of Tinn, so that there may still be hospitalization in the hospital, and that it will not be a mall or anything else. One of the reasons I took the floor was that Kjeseth is questioning why the Christian People's Party is doing what they're doing today. I just remind you a little bit about the story here: the Christian People's Party did not take an active part in or any active responsibility for shutting down the emergency room. What the Christian People's Party did not do was to overdo the decision of the Council of State. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating an accessible and strong emergency service throughout the country, and we also fought for this in connection with the recently issued National Health and Hospital Plan. You know one more. Acute and diurnal functions at Rjukan Hospital were terminated on the grounds that patient safety was no longer ensured. That was an important reason. The Christian People's Party believes a safe offer is a prerequisite for maintaining any hospital function, not just emergency functions. Then I would also like to point out that the Christian People's Party has taken the order to ensure sufficient means of conversion to the municipality of Tin as a result of the changes adopted in 2014. In the 2015 budget, and perhaps this is what the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, knows, we fought for 30 million. kr in conversion funds to Tin. We got 10 million throughput. kr. These are important means of ensuring the further development and establishment of new offers in the municipality of Tin, and we will continue to fight for it in the budgetary negotiations ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1029	The history of Rjukan Hospital is getting stronger and stronger. There are a number of documents describing what is in the Telemark Hospital development plan for Rjukan. I can quote from page 31 of the plan, which was presented by CEO Bess Fröyshov on May 13, 2014, where it says: ‘Recommended functional distribution of somatic treatment services Rjukan: Local hospital with a broad outpatient daily supply for both surgery, orthopaedics and medical treatment areas including radiology and lab. [[...]] Dialysis and cancer treatment. Cooperation with private contract specialists and municipal/external health professionals.» That was the plan. It is the plan approved by health establishments at two levels, and that is the plan agreed by the Council of State on 5 June 2014. And then here we experience that the Council of State says we are facing Rjukan hospitals that are not in operation. So it's possible to have such formulations, to which the Council of State has joined, while the Council of State can say that it's not a hospital in operation. It is very demanding – very demanding. Many people have questioned the honesty of this process. Those who have believed that this has not been honest have at least now been told that they were right. For when the Council of State says that there is no hospital in operation, it is said that the Council of State knows the Health Company Act § 32 Sale of hospital activities, and it says in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000–2001 on the Health Enterprises Act, which forms the legal basis for the treatment of the Storting, on page 215: «Note to Section 32 The term «hospital activity» means in the provision hospital in operation.» And hospitals in operation are to be treated by Stortinget. So the council makes an elegant movement and says that here we don't have hospitals in operation, so we don't have to deal with the Stortinget. All decisions have indicated that there was a hospital in operation, and then the Council of State is testing itself with such circumvention. This should not be possible in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1055	There were people who were concerned about speech points from the Ministry of Finance. I have not received any speech points from the Ministry of Finance in this matter, but it is clear that there are others who remember well what it was like when you were in Stortinget – I do not know. To the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who was concerned that this was about money: No, for me this is not about money at all, it's actually about patient treatment. When the book value is about 40 million. kr at Rjukan Hospital and approx. 60 million. kr. in Kragerø Hospital, that means that if you were to go for the proposal of the Center Party, which does not have a containment in relation to this, it is 100 million. kr gone for the treatment of patients in Telemark. It's the patients in Telemark I'm busy with. I would have understood the proposal if you had been in principle in relation to the fact that there are two hospitals in a quite similar situation, on which you are now going to dispose of the building mass. The Rjukan hospital was sold for one kroner from Hydro several decades ago. But also the municipality of Kragerø has given away the plot on which the hospital in Kragerø is located. So they're pretty similar -- in terms of treating the two hospitals the same way. That's where I bump into the Center Party. When the argument was that the people or local politicians in Kragerø did not get involved as much as the people and the local politicians in Rjukan, I have to say that I stunned a little. I don't think the local politicians in Kragerø are familiar with it. Perhaps the head of the Labour Party should check with his own rapporteur in Kragerø, I don't think he has the same opinion – that he wouldn't like to get the hospital for free if he could get it. So here I think it's important that you have your tongue right in your mouth, and I think the Council of State has said in a good way – clearly and clearly – that it's precisely that he has given leadership, which means that you have the opportunity to find good solutions. I really hope you get a good solution, because the Tin Society is important to get a good solution. I also note that the centre party will not respond to what is a little special, that where the centre party has the rapporteur, one must now give away for free, but where the centre party does not have the rapporteur, it is not as important to have it in the same way. I think a lot of people in Telemark will think it's very strange. As I said, it is about patients in Telemark – all patients, including those living in Tinn. If you have to cut 100 million. kr on the operation, it has consequences for patients. That's what I'm concerned about. That's why I'm also taking care of patients in a good way in the future, and I think that's what you do in a good way here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1070	In Lundtigen's posts, one of the witnesses to the alarming fact that the Center Party believes that there is still hospitalization at Rjukan, that there is a local hospital in Rjukan. When it comes to honesty, it was just one of my main reasons for having a business meeting that confirmed the development plan of the Hospital Telemark, and meeting the protestors outside the Stortinget for my reasons why I thought it was a right decision to lay down the hospital at Rjukan. There is a discussion in which one is now trying to create the impression that this was not what happened – that it was not what the people experienced, what everyone in this room experienced, and those who worked in the hospital experienced. The activity that is there now, which will be there in the future, will not be at such a level that it will fall below what is called an emergency hospital in the National Health and Hospital Plan. There will be planned activities that will mainly take place there, activities in cooperation and in interaction with the primary health service. But it will – quite correctly – also in the future, in line with the development plan, be specialist healthcare services at Rjukan. But now to create the impression that one still has what the people experience as a hospital operation, at Rjukan, I think the representative Lundtigen and I agree that would be an dishonest game.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1077	We can agree that there is a need for clear definitions of what is a hospital, but what we are discussing here is the Health Company Act § 32, Sale of hospital activities, where it says: «Sickness activities may not be sold without the consent of the Storting.» It's in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001, under Note to Section 32, the following: For the purposes of the provision of ‘hospital activities’, ‘hospital activities’ means in operation. Hospitals are establishments approved under the Special Health Service Act § 4-1. This provision regulates the sale of that part of the hospital which has clinical functions, medical and other health service functions.» What we are now experiencing is that what is in the development plan for the Hospital Telemark, namely that it should be a local hospital with ‘a broad outpatient daily offer for both surgery, orthopaedics and medical treatment areas, including radiology and lab’, is not a hospital activity. That's what's at the core here. I believe that the Council of State has serious problems describing that what is in the development plan is not covered by hospital activities, as the legislator got this presented in Ot.prp. No Sixty-six. Then we have the representative Hoksrud, who's talking about the company not getting money, and that it's going to hurt someone. Again, if you go to the development plan for the Hospital Telemark on page 5, under economic conditions, it says: ‘The plan shall be based on the expected financial framework conditions The plan shall contain a profit forecast for each year, as well as the expected need for investments and a financing plan related thereto.’;» [[Economic long-term plan 2013–2016, ØLP]] There are no prerequisites for the plan to sell the hospital buildings. Obviously, if it had been the premise, the debate would have been completely different. There was a heated debate about the hospital in Rjukan. It was well lit. Everyone was there, everyone could say what one wanted to light up the matter. What we're experiencing now is that there's a double communication in this case that's completely grotesque. It's not good for the government to add up to anything like that. It is a breach of the Health Business Act § 32. That's a fact, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1101	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1105	Now there are many technicalities in the debate, but I also know what is in the development plan for the Hospital Telemark. It is clear that with the principles you follow now there will be consequences if you sell at a lower value than the value per day. This means that the operation is out of the question, and there will be consequences for patients. What I am at least happy about today is that now we are going to finish the matter. This means that you can move on locally to make sure you're probably finding the right solution. There, I believe the Council of State has made good provision to follow-up both at business meetings and what he has said in the debate today – for the benefit of all patients in Telemark. I also think the municipality of Tin is going to have a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1112	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1115	I find it regrettable that representatives from Telemark, too, have so easily refused to follow up on the development plan that has been adopted. He is referred to in the proposal – it says what the plan is planned to be on Rjukan in the future. It says dialysis, it says cytotoxic therapy. Orthopaedics and Injury Outpatients, Pulmonary Outpatients, Heart Outpatients, Diabetes Outpatients, Gastro- Outpatients, Ear-nasal Outpatients, Ophthalmology, Gynecological Outpatients and Food Outpatients and Surgery Outpatients shall be evaluated, and medical support services, labs and X-rays. Something should be expanded, something should continue as today, and something should be planned in the future. That one of Telemark's representatives thought it was entirely right that this was not coming, I thought I was a sight-catching. It is on this basis that we have put forward the proposal, which unfortunately falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1120	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1123	For the Centre Party, there is no need to subsidise any other proposals. This matter is so strong, and I see the Council of State sitting and looking down when it is referenced from the plans for what should be of specialist health services at the hospital – what was a full hospital in Rjukan. It's very strong to experience it. I also noticed that the representative Terje Aasland was on the list of speakers, but he has not taken the floor. I stand here with a letter that Terje Aasland sent on 19 June 2015 to Minister of Health Bent Höie, where it says: «Although the Hospital Telemark has contributed to the development of the building stock at the hospital since the acquisition in 1970, the signatory will strongly encourage the return of the building mass in its entirety to the municipality of Tin without a claim for remuneration.» It is clear from the representative of Aasland, who has been in conflict for a long time and who has certainly done so after careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1149	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1156	Let me first thank the proposers, who have addressed a very important issue in this draft representative. There is a cross-political consensus that, in the future, we should both prevent more and get in early with good and adapted rehabilitation services, so that individuals can live in their own homes as long as this is desirable and possible. It is important for individuals — and for us as society and communities — that we can live independent lives for as long as possible, and postpone or reduce the need for care services. We see that developments have been moving towards more home-based services in recent years. This means that we need more of what is called everyday rehabilitation. It is a concept that was first launched in NOU 2011:11, Innovation in Care, and that later was followed up in Meld. St. 29 for 2012–2013 Tomorrow's care, as Stortinget dealt with in spring 2013. Everyday rehabilitation represents a slightly different way of thinking about care. Instead of assuming that users with disabilities should have compensatory — perhaps passive — measures, rehabilitation is offered to help better master their daily lives and tasks. The daily rehabilitation shall maintain, maintain and strengthen the user’s level of function and health, thereby postponing more extensive care needs. When I talk about day-to-day rehabilitation – which is most often used for rehabilitation when people live at home – in the present proposal for a representative, it is because many people now argue that this perspective must also apply to the rehabilitation offered to people living in nursing homes. The proposers point out that those who come to hospital in the future are likely to become even more fragile than before. However, there will also be a need for different types of measures to support the functioning of the individual. A more continuous rehabilitation effort will also be necessary for those living in hospital homes – simply because it turns out that, for example: demented or fragile physically have both the joy and the benefit of rehabilitation. The various organisations that took part in the Committee's consultation on the proposal for a representative we are here to debate underlined this point and supported such thinking. The Norwegian Physiotherapy Association pointed to a 2010 Nordic research study, which shows that there is a high potential for health and exercise effects in the elderly. Those who have little function have a lot to pick up from physical training. In fact, the study shows that the most fragile residents in nursing homes had the most benefits of training. It may then be that physical activity and training can both strengthen the sustainability of the care and care sectors and, at the same time, improve the health and quality of life of individuals. I think it is very good with the elderly care provided in Norwegian municipalities, but the great weakness is that many older people are passive in health care services, and that this is especially a challenge at home. Therefore, stronger policy instruments are needed to provide more content and activity in the care of the elderly. The Labour Party added 78.5 million to our alternative budget for 2016. kr to day activity for demente and 4,6 mill. kr for lifelong and active ageing. We have also proposed additional funding for a fund for innovation in the municipal health and care sector, including funding for service innovation. There is a great need for systematic and overall efforts to increase activity in the care of the elderly, especially in hospitals. This must, of course, apply to physical rehabilitation and rehabilitation, but cultural and social activities and experiences are also important in everyday life in order to create joy, well-being, mastery and belonging. In our 2016 alternative budget, the Workers' Party proposed to increase support for the Cultural Walk by 50 pst. to 45 million. kr. We expect the government in the announced rehabilitation and habilitation plan to put into practice both the quality, skills and facilities of adapted rehabilitation measures for the elderly population, including those living in nursing homes. I address the proposal that we are promoting together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1180	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1183	The government’s aim is to create the patient’s healthcare and to organise good services for all patients — regardless of age. Good health is mastering your own life. It is therefore important to feel that you can have good health even when you have to live with damage or impaired function. This is the starting point for government policies, including in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and it will therefore be reflected in the government's announced escalation plan in the field. Just because focusing on good rehabilitation for too many years has been a politically neglected area, the Right in the election campaign promised to promote an escalation plan in the habilitation and rehabilitation field if we came into government. Our promise became part of the government platform, and the government has said that it will come to Stortinget with an escalating plan, as promised. The proposers ask the government to ensure that the rehabilitation of the elderly is included in the plan, that the plan must contain concrete measures to ensure increased physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources in hospitals, and that a national grant scheme is developed to ensure sick home jobs that contribute to increased activity. This government has already started some work to ensure better rehabilitation and rehabilitation services for its users. In the treatment of the primary health notification, it was announced that the government will carry out systematic quality development work with a view to developing a health home safety standard. There is now work to make physiotherapy services more flexible. Municipalities may apply for a permanent salary subsidy to employ physiotherapists, and the Stortinget has joined the government's proposal in the primary health notification that the law should list professionals representing the core competence of any municipality, including doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health nurses and psychologists, from 2020 onwards. In addition, a majority in Stortinget has asked that ergoterapeut should also be a statutory profession. I have also noticed that the Center Party now wants to introduce demands for physiotherapy and ergotherapy competence in hospitals, while not supporting the government's proposal in the primary health report on the law-making of certain professions. There are more and more of us living longer. That is what we think in the Right is a positive trend, which does not necessarily mean that in the future several of us will need room in a nursing home – this because more and more municipalities have become better at facilitating that more and more people who want it will be able to live longer at home in their own homes. Once again, it can be said that the person who first comes to a nursing home is likely to be both older and worse than before. There may also be considerable differences between municipalities in how they organise the service provision in order to best meet local challenges. However, the right considers that the needs of each municipality are best known locally, how resources should be used for the benefit of users, and how the service provision should be organised to meet local challenges. At the same time, we believe that strong demands should be made on municipalities to follow developments closely, in order to better differentiate the offer, so that both those living at home and those who eventually come to the institution can be offered good rehabilitation tailored to the individual's needs. The growing incidence of some form of dementia is also a development which means that in the future there will be a need for a greater differentiation in the provision of rehabilitation services, not only in hospitals but also in municipal home services. I agree that it is important to ensure good rehabilitation services for the elderly, and that physical activity for the elderly must have a high level of attention both at home and in the municipality. It is therefore good to know that the government’s plan to step up the rehabilitation and rehabilitation field will cover all age groups — with it also focusing on good rehabilitation and multidisciplinary competences for the elderly in hospital homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1211	There's no doubt that being moving is both important and necessary for everyone, regardless of age. We both know from experience – perhaps our own – and from research that a sedentary life is not good for either body or soul. What does it really mean to be moving? Well, basically it's about moving a little bit or much with all or part of the body in moderate to increasing pace, intensity and strength. Sometimes we need movement to help train the body after injury or illness, and then we often call it rehabilitation. At the hospital today we find two main groups. There are older people with advanced dementia and severe sick and nursing, often elderly. The others we find in our own home. Everyone needs different mobility and mobility is definitely an investment in good health. Let there be no doubt either: the government builds the patient's health service, and in it patients will actually be allowed to participate and decide, and the voice will weigh more heavily in the design of tomorrow's healthcare. So we're going to assume what the individual needs, and then we're going to put in the resources that are needed to help the patient. These include: in the primary health notification through the construction of teams and through the legalisation of ergotherapy resources, through prevention measures for an active ageing of the public health message – through the renewal and improvement of health services, among others. through the mobilisation of patients and relatives as change agents at the national health and hospital level – focusing on activity in the strategy for the health of the elderly and, in particular, dementia level 2020. Now we might be waiting for the government to put the dot over the i, the raisin in the sausage or the cream in the cake: a separate rehabilitation message with the main focus on movement for everyone. I just want to make it quite clear: of course, we've been thinking that residents in hospitals also have a great need for both rehabilitation and physical activity, and that access to physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources should be a matter of course. I've seen that many times as well. So when you travel around, you see that in many places you don't get a good enough offer to stay in activity, rehabilitation and habilitation, so there are big challenges in this area. But we're most concerned that we have to have an offer to tailor to what the householder wants and needs, and not be a static service that is connected to either every small nursing home or every small home service. It's important. Finally, I have a few small reflections. It's a little interesting that those who now suggest that we have to demand more rehabilitation and physical training in hospital homes are the same as those who chose to vote against the law on certain professions in hospitals, or who were actually part of a government that even took away the professions during the previous period. It's a little special that a party that at least in this room wants to pretend that they're concerned with being against imposing things on the municipalities, or that you have to rule and control the municipalities, suddenly, when the municipalities don't do what this party wants, then the Center Party would like to come in and govern and control. If you were to follow the logic, there would have been no problem, because the Central Party has many rapporteurs around this country – I think it is 95 – and they sit and rule with others. This is a task that has been added to the municipalities, and the Central Party is concerned that this should be with the municipalities. They do not even want any particular positiveness about the state funding of the care of the elderly, so they want this to be something for which the municipalities have full authority and responsibility. Instead of having to do it now – now to the extent that the government wants to do it, but I think there are some paradoxes with the party proposing this – they can only go out to their own rapporteurs and say that now you have to make sure that you deliver on this, because we expect them to follow up and ensure that everyone gets rehabilitation and physical training in the hospital home. I'm very happy that the Center Party has not wanted to do that, and I'm glad that we have a government and a large majority who have decided here that this is something we should do, namely to ensure that professionals will be there in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1226	The ability to move and access fresh air is entirely fundamental as many of us take for granted. But it's not like that for everyone. We know that inactivity is an increasing problem. Therefore, regular physical activity is also important for the health of the elderly. In the absence of activity, which in turn is often the cause of loneliness, we all too often see that this can intensify both depression and the development of dementia. Tomorrow’s care services must be proactively focused on activities in old age and the organisation of physical, social and cultural activities both within and outside institutions. The Christian People's Party will have an offensive commitment to preventive measures that strengthen the quality of life of the home-building elderly, for those who are in a short-stay or in the nursing home for training, and for the sickest elderly who have been given a long-term place in a nursing home or another bus offer. A day-to-day content that allows the user to maintain his/her level of function and to start rehabilitating rapidly when needed will also provide a health benefit for the elderly, thus increasing quality of life. Unfortunately, we all too often see that in the hospital, the best way to do what they usually do is to sit down. This causes them to lose their function level quickly. Medical follow-up and a holistic offer that will be adapted to the individual are important. The Christian People's Party proposed to grant 500 million in its 2016 alternative budget. kr extra to the municipalities of the country for, among others. strengthening staffing in Norwegian hospitals, for the crew must be in accordance with the tasks to be resolved, so that the individual residents are preserved. Thus, institutions and other types of bulwarks need for older competences and a standard of manpower that meets the needs of the peasant, both on the physical, the mental, the social and the spiritual plane. We have an unlikely number of good municipalities in our country that do the best for the elderly. I want to commend all health professionals who every day provide an important job in a very busy everyday life. I'm going to give a little example from my own region of North Hordland when it's about physical activity. Here we've gone to the purchase of something called the motiview bike. 'Motiview' is a motivational tool that is quite innovative. It stimulates the elderly, with both dementia and others, to increase physical activity. This bike is used both in the home and in the infirmary. Using live images and sounds, the user can actually cycle into familiar surroundings and re-experienced childhood memory. This has given results. We see better mobility and reduction of falling incomes, faster rehabilitation in the event of injuries and actually increase appetite. We see that drug use goes down, and we see better sleep and less pain. Fascination is increasing, and not least there is great inspiration for staff and relatives. When the farmer is allowed to use this tool, they experience a great deal of mastering. Physical activity is important. The Christian People's Party has long looked forward to the alerting escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, he is absolutely necessary. Better health, higher quality of life and self-mastery are surprisingly quickly a fact when targeted measures are introduced. In addition to the purely medical emphasis on the right of individuals to get into fresh air, activity, varied diets and cultural experiences, the current regulation on worthy care for the elderly. To be happy with today’s and tomorrow’s care for the elderly, an increased level of physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources is needed, as this representative’s proposal specifies. Of course, the Christian People's Party believes it is and expects a strong and clear plan from the government in line with our common understanding of the very central role of rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the prevention work and in the follow-up of the individual user. Then we'll get a whole-hearted service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1241	In a study of 40 Norwegian hospitals from seven different counties, researchers concluded that physical and social activity is still at a relatively low level, despite several health services campaigns. The study suggests that an increase in the number of nurses in a hospital always leads to better general care, but not necessarily to more physical and social activity among the beekeepers. In 2010, there was a «Prescription on a worthy care of the elderly». In § 3, points (f) and (g), it is about facilitating the functioning of everyday life and professionally defending the follow-up of doctors and other relevant personnel. In 2011, we received NOU Innovation in care, where it was shown that most of the studies point out that daily living, meals, social and cultural conditions are the main weaknesses in today's care provision. Reference was made to the need for greater professional scope with room for more professional groups, so that care provision meets psychosocial needs and can be given a more active profile. In 2012, the message came in the care of tomorrow, and it followed up these recommendations on contributing to professional transition in care services to create a wider range of professionals and to increase emphasis on multidisciplinary work. Announcement The primary health service of the future, which came in 2015, also mentions the need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in primary health care. The Central Party believes that the policy objectives of active care in these papers and the NOO need to be followed up by concrete action. Movement is a fundamental need for everyone. There is also a fundamental need for hospital dwellers. It is well documented that inactivity has many negative physiological, social and psychological consequences. It also applies to those who live in a nursing home. It is also research that supports the effect of physical exercises on the function of hospital dwellers. In the notice of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan, the Center Party believes that there must be measures to ensure rehabilitation for sick home dwellers, and that one has an active tool to support increased physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources for this group. Physical therapy and ergotherapy resources in hospitals are currently very limited. Figures from the reporting by municipalities from 2013 show that in 114 municipalities in the country, older people receive physiotherapy at the hospital 0.2 hours or less every week. An average municipality offers 0.38 hours of physiotherapy per week. In «Regulation for nursing homes and housing for the care and care of the lucky day» § 2-1 it says: ‘In relation to the stay, medical care, physiotherapy and nursing services shall be organised in cooperation with other parts of the municipal health and social service.’;» That's good, but this doesn't necessarily mean that physiotherapists are being used to maintain and improve the functioning of the health care community in general. Paragraphs 3 to 2 of the regulation state that the boforma must have attached to an administrative director, a doctor responsible for the medical treatment, and a publicly approved nurse responsible for the care of the sick, and otherwise as many people as are necessary to ensure the care and assistance required for the occupants. We believe that the regulation should be clarified, that one also receives ergotherapy and physiotherapy resources. We suggest a pre-arrangement for those municipalities who want to do something more when it comes to activity, which can help create settings, not only physical therapists and ergot therapists, but we also think about music therapists, activists and volunteer coordinators that can help to increase their activity among the builders. I am pleased with the support we have received to clarify that older people should be included in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan, and I would like to make the suggestions that the Centre Party is all about in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1270	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1273	First of all, I would like to say that the intentions of the proposals of the Central Party support the Left. Rehabilitation services in hospitals are important – the more we discuss when and how. For the Left, one of the measures is: also to create stronger municipalities and fewer municipalities. Part of the challenge today is that we have a care and care service in municipalities that are very different, because it is practised very differently – there are different policy priorities locally. The need for competence and the requirement for competence also vary and is practised differently, but the most recent primary health notification is an example of some parties making demands on the competence of municipalities. The centre party was part of a government that lifted that requirement of competence. The left demanded that we have ergoterapeuter into the teams from 2020. We think that's important to facilitate good rehabilitation. The ergot therapists are good at seeing the surroundings and adapting people to them. Some hospitals obviously need to adapt to those living there. In this context, there is also a development in welfare technologies where ergot therapists play an important role — physiotherapists too, of course. We have also discussed a public health report — early efforts — but it also addresses a late effort for those who are in the end of life. It is also important here to discuss the concept of ‘sick home’, which is part of the proposal, because it is also practised differently around Norway. In some municipalities, the average bedtime is at a nursing home of six months. It is, in fact, a place you die. Elsewhere in the country, average sleep time, or living time, is two, three and four years, when the hospital is a place to live. It is obviously dependent on geography — and also on the political parties that govern — how this is practised. But a common challenge for everyone is that more and more people under the age of 67 live in hospitals, because there is no other offer in the municipalities. It is a common challenge for all of us to bring up other types of housing for those under 67 who are not going to live in a nursing home. This is where the common resources are short, and we need to discuss more coordination, larger municipalities and a more sustainable management of the common resources, which are scarcely good. Therefore, a community reform is needed to strengthen both competence and capacity. With regard to the concrete proposals here, there is a common expectation, probably from several, that the plan of escalation promised by the government parties should also address the offer to residents in hospital homes and that it should say something about the responsibilities of municipalities in the continuation of rehabilitation services and about the financial efforts of the actors involved in rehabilitation. Around all purposes, processes are in progress – there have been discussions, debates and messages about this. The left largely ends up in the government's work in this area. Targeted efforts are being made to improve supply. Then it's a challenge that there's a freedom in the municipalities to dispose of the resources. There too, the Left believes that there should be self-determination for the municipalities, and there is also, of course, a limit on what Stortinget should override the municipalities when it comes to retail regulation. This is a bit of a background because the Left does not support the proposals of the Centre Party in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1293	This is about recognizing that a human being is a human being, whether you are a newborn, a child, a youth, an adult or an elderly person. In all situations of life, we are, and then we need activity, we need something meaningful to do with, we need security, and we need help with our health problems, if we have it. We act like people all the time. I think we have to admit that also very many people who need a high degree of help for practical things -- whether you get it at home, need to be in a nursing home, or are so sick that you can fit in a nursing home -- need activities beyond that, both physical and other activities, to have something to fill your life with. If we're going to get it done, we have to make sure that there are some people doing that job, and it's going to cost money to meet all of the fine goals that all of the games now agree that we're going to have in place. Because everyone says that, and you've been saying that for a long time. This is one of the reasons why SV has prioritised increasing the municipal economy by 6 billion. in addition to the accession of the Government and the Cooperation Parties. Among other things, it's 375 million. kr for increased staffing in care and also money to secure against the loss of rights that we know occurs because there is a violation of human rights in the care of the elderly, which the Storting would not monitor according to the SV's proposal that was dealt with a few months ago. We're going to support these proposals, but we want a statutory staffing standard in care. We have also put forward proposals which, unfortunately, have been voted down. Of course, this must apply to both nursing and ergotherapy, physiotherapy and activists. Because that's what it takes. It is important, as many people are up here saying, that this – of course – must be the patient’s health care system, and that older people need to be more able to decide for themselves. But it also has to be so that those with professional competence have to have greater freedom to use their professionalism in everyday life when they see what is needed. The problem today is that in some places these professional prophecies are not present, and where they are present, they have too little time. They have too little time to monitor, and they have too little time to follow up the individual who needs help for different activities, whether they are physical or physical. Physical training is important to everyone, even when you are very ill. All the research shows that it seems positive. It can only be felt by yourself, when you have a bad day or look at your closest friends living in such situations. I'm especially concerned with the elderly with dementia. Many of them can be in very good physical form. They really need to be able to move, and they have great joy and use of it. Then it is also important to make provision for it. Too much locked doors are used and forced in the care of the dents, precisely because they are fast to legs and want to move. But there are no possibilities. It is also very important to cooperate with the voluntary sector. There are very important outdoor organisations in facilitating offers that people with dementia can also use, so that they can develop, as they need, under safe conditions. Of course, we look forward to the proposals that the government has made to them. But there is a need to give priority to this too. We want to strengthen the municipalities, so that they have the opportunity to implement this, but we also want to make very specific demands on the professionalism that must be in place for these offers to be good. Then there are many things that need to be done: it's good professionalism, it's good management, and it's time and opportunity to take care of the individual. We need a crew reform. We don't need a municipal reform with larger municipalities, but we need a reform where the municipalities can afford to hire them, and we need a trust reform, so that the professionals can exercise their profession in a professionally good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1308	Let me first go to the nucleus: what is rehabilitation? There is no single service, but an organisation of several services to provide the user with a comprehensive, targeted offer with the aim of improving the user’s ability to self-esteem and maintain function for as long as possible. Many older people want to stay at home as far as possible, and therefore many municipalities have strengthened their domestic rehabilitation efforts. Research shows that the best rehabilitation is done at home, in the user’s usual environment, provided that sufficient resources are deployed. Hospital interventions are often linked to short-term locations and rehabilitation departments. That is good, but it should not be at the expense of the offer of residents in long-term places. All users shall have the opportunity to live and live independently and live an active life, physically and socially. This is made clear in the Health and Care Services Act. Municipalities have an obligation to facilitate an offer of varied and adapted activities. All users, regardless of age, are entitled to rehabilitation services. Several will receive these services in the municipalities, in line with the intentions of the inter-action reform and the municipal reform. Patients are formerly discharged from hospitals and municipalities are expected to undertake early-stage rehabilitation. Close follow-up and intensive initial provision are often necessary for the effectiveness of rehabilitation. Good rehabilitation services are about competence, management, resources, attitudes and culture. Rehabilitation is a process of thinking that needs to permeate all aspects and services of municipal health and care services. I agree with the proposers that rehabilitation of the elderly and attention to competences and multidisciplinary competence in nursing homes is important. Many nursing homes will have a better everyday life if they get more physical, social and psychological stimulation. Rehabilitation is an important area of government. We will follow up on the proposals in the Storing Communication on the primary health service of the future to legislate on the competence requirements of municipal health and care services. This includes the requirement for municipalities to have physio- and ergot-erapeut. Furthermore, we have said that we want to change the terms of fixed salary subsidies for physiotherapists in order to make the physiotherapy service more flexible for municipalities. We have also presented a level of competence to help develop a professionally strong service. Through Competence Plan 2020, we will contribute to the adequacy and competence of the sector. In recent years, we have strengthened the grant for leadership training. We know that good management is essential for the development of good services, including in the field of rehabilitation. I am following the development of new methods in this area with great interest. More than 100 municipalities have now started projects with everyday rehabilitation, and the initiative has been evaluated. Many municipalities have good results. In my own municipality, Stavanger, the cost of home care and short-term care went down from 15 to 5.5 million. NOK 3 months after the project Everyday rehabilitation. And the very best thing: the elderly became physically stronger and got back the belief that it is possible to recover. Similar experiences exist in other municipalities and in Denmark and Sweden. The evaluation in Stavanger concluded that this offer should be better known among the firm doctors. I fully agree with that. In care 2020, we have identified the need for increased activity and stimulation in nursing homes. The Health Directorate’s counsellor on rehabilitation, rehabilitation, individual planning and coordinator has good suggestions on how municipalities can organise the rehabilitation offer and it is well received. We have also announced a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which we intend to present this year. Rehabilitation of the elderly and attention to multidisciplinary competences in nursing homes are important. At the same time, individual municipalities know best how to use resources and organise services for the benefit of users and on the basis of local conditions. Each individual needs an offer appropriate to their situation, and the user must decide for himself the goal of the rehabilitation. Healthcare professionals must always ask the question: What is important to you? This is the most important question, even when the patient needs rehabilitation. Then it is also incredibly important that those who ask the question take the answer seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1337	The government has promised to present a national escalation plan for the rehabilitation and habilitation field. Many patient organisations and professionals have called for the plan and expressed some impatience that it has been absent so far. Government councils and government parties stress the importance of lawmaking of different professional professions and their presence in community care and care, but many of the same professionals warn against using law enforcement as a sleeping cushion, because it does not say anything about the quality and dimensioning of the same services, and many say that it can well be thought that there is a need for minimum positions on e.g. 20 pst. The government parties do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party that there should be concrete measures in the escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in hospitals. Does the Council of State still believe that the law-making of professional prostheses is an adequate instrument, or can it come back to more concrete measures on quality and dimensioning?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1344	I understand very well that the user and patient organisations are impatient after the government has to submit an escalation plan in the rehabilitation field, but we will. But impatience stems primarily from the fact that they were proposed for eight years under the red-green government, without a single plan. Here comes the plan. So it's absolutely right that legalizing a requirement for competence in the municipality is an important tool, but that's not the only tool, of course. As I said, we're going to come up with an escalation plan, but we're also working on this in many other areas. Among other things, we're using over 1 billion. kr in the year to give municipalities the opportunity to both refresh and further train their own employees, develop the skills that are needed, and by now we are working to create a separate safety standard for nursing homes that will become a concrete work tool, just to ensure the results that I perceive we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1351	I just want to inform the Council of State that there was both a rehabilitation plan and a rehabilitation plan, a lot of important documents and more money for rehabilitation on the previous government guard, so let's not say that. But I forgot a specific question: Will the government present this plan in the context of the state budget, or can it be that the plan of escalation comes to the end of the year – if such a specific question can be asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1358	Yes, it is possible to ask such a specific question, but I think the representative has such a long experience that she knows that she does not get an answer to that kind of question, because of course one will present the plan when the government has finished working on it. It is true that many documents came from the red-green government, but there was no escalation plan in the rehabilitation field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1363	In this setting, there is a joint committee which supports the proposal that rehabilitation of the elderly should be part of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan. However, the Government Party and the Left do not support a proposal from the minority that the escalation plan should contain ‘concrete measures to ensure increased physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources in hospitals’. Then you can think about why you can't join something so obvious. When one goes for an escalation plan, I think that of course it must lead to an increase in physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources in the hospital. Can the Council of State confirm that he wants to increase physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources, or does he mean that it will not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1370	I understand that when the government parties and the Left are in favour of the proposal that they are making, it is precisely because they trust that there will be an escalation plan. However, there is no reason for these parties now, on the basis of a proposal by a representative, to support a number of detailed proposals on what such a plan should contain. That plan will have the full potential to influence these batches through the work to be done prior to the submission of the plan. I think that is the natural explanation of that vote. It is quite obvious that the government has been very clear that our work throughout the rehabilitation field will focus mainly on the need to build up the service in the municipality. These include: one of the reasons why rehabilitation has been identified as one of the key areas of the municipal reform and the division of labour and tasks there, that municipalities will be given greater responsibility in the rehabilitation field in the years to come. It's also good for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1377	I don't fully understand the answer, because the question is: when one says A, that one should have an escalation plan, and there should be rehabilitation of the elderly, but one cannot support that this should lead to an increase in physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources in the care of the elderly or in the hospital, I still don't understand the argument for why one cannot say B. To ask another question, does the Council see any argument that there should be no more physical therapy and ergotherapy resources in Norwegian hospitals after the escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1384	As I said in my answer, I think the perfectly obvious answer to that question is that when the government parties and the left so clearly establish that the government is going to present an escalation plan, there is – and this is ‘A’ – no reason why these parties are going to go into and evaluate all the ‘B’s’ that are going to be in that plan. There will be good opportunities in the preparation and treatment of the plan. The centre batch cannot distort this to the extent that these batches are against any of those measures. The representative is very aware that it is quite common in Stortinget that when parties who sit in government and their supporting parties work on a matter, they do not go in and decide on individual proposals that lie in the matter. It does when you've seen the whole thing and evaluate it in a context. It is quite clear that there is a need to increase access to high levels of competence related to rehabilitation in municipalities. This is one of the reasons why, unlike the Centre Party, these parties have intervened in order to legislate for this type of competence in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1392	If you're going to legislate for skills, you have to go into the different disciplines, and then you can get a little worried when the Council of State says that saying something concrete about being a physiotherapist and an ergot therapist is a detail. It could not be a detail in a rehabilitation plan. I want to ask the Council of State for something else, because if you want to do this, you have to either get new employees or free resources, and then you have to look for time thieves. The municipal bill states that a new municipal register of users and patients should be established. The question is, what should it catch that is not captured today by all the registrations made, for example: through IPLOS registration? Can the Council of State say something concrete about what this is, and in that case will you be able to remove some of the other registrations that take time and resources that could have been used for rehabilitation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1399	Firstly, I have never called physiotherapy and ergotherapy services ‘a detail’. So I don't know where the representative got it from. What I said was that the detailed content of a stepping-up plan will of course come back to later. However, we have been clear about – The size also – the types of skills required by the new law. The law will be promoted for Stortinget in less than a long time, and then all other parties can decide and possibly think about whether one will continue to oppose such a requirement of competence. But in terms of physiotherapy and ergotherapy, Stortinget has been very clear that there will be a requirement for competence in municipalities. Then it is an advantage for municipalities to grow, so that they get a good and robust environment of competence in these areas. It'll be better. With regard to the new quality register for municipal services, there is a great need to know more about the quality of services that many have requested. This matter is now under consideration in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1406	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1411	I only have a few final comments. This with large municipalities is always, in all health matters, taken up. When it comes to this matter, I have to say that my background to the proposal was that one year ago I had – unfortunately, I kept on saying – very close contact with the elderly care in the municipality of Bergen, Norway’s second largest city. To put it that way, that's where I found out how bad activity was, lack of ergotherapy services, and almost absent physiotherapy services. So if the big municipalities today are the template for how to get into merged municipalities, it's pretty sad. It's the one. The centre party has been criticised and almost ridiculed for making this proposal at all when we did not vote in favour of the legalisation of professions. Lawmaking of professions is not a difficult matter for us. It's been the law enforcement of professionals before, and now it's again. We wanted to legislate, the government wanted to legitimize professionals, but had omitted the ergot therapists. We are very much in favour of the fact that when a person first has to have legislation, it has to apply to the important ones. Fortunately, the ergot therapists came back in. Similarly, when we have a regulation today on what kind of professionals should and must be associated with a nursing home, we find it unnatural that physiotherapists and ergot therapists are not included. I don't know what SV does, but we're recording that we can't get any other party with it. But I think there is still a defect in today's regulation that it only concerns doctors and nurses. We'll have to deal with the hoax we've met. We have received enormous support for this proposal. I think everyone, both those who work, those who are related, and those who are users, sees that there is too little activity in the care of the elderly today. I do not see others making better suggestions on how this can be strengthened than the proposals we have made today for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1422	I want to thank the Council of State for his contribution, which had many important, good reflections and actions that are now being warned about the rehabilitation field. We really look forward to that. I want to add that in physical activity and with all kinds of rehabilitation, it is decisive that there is a shared responsibility between the different professionals, and that there is a natural supply throughout the day. Either there's rehabilitation in a hospital ward, in a short-term ward or there's one in order to get it in the daytime from home services, it's important that the interdisciplinary team is connected to meet the needs of the user at any given time. It's about a cage home or about a cage in an institution, in different boobies there. All users or builders are different and need different follow-up. It's important when talking about rehabilitation. When the plan of rehabilitation is announced by the government, he is very welcome. I think it's both important, absolutely correct and necessary that we get such a kind of escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1431	To the Kjersti Top of the Center Party: I hope I wasn't one of the people who gave the impression that I wanted to harp. On the contrary, I said at the outset that I think we all share our intention. And no, big municipalities are not the template for how we want it to be. The challenge is that if we had only 700 small municipalities in Norway, the resources for administration had almost disappeared far beyond our capacity to understand – for tasks quite different from qualified rehabilitation. So the challenge is, as I was saying, we have too many variations. That was one of the reasons why the Left negotiated a pilot project at the Hospital of Askim. There are seven municipalities in Inner Eastfold working together on the Health House in Ashim. It's quite the right bet, I think all parties will believe – with both medical care, immediate help and good medical coverage – but they see the need for rehabilitation. Eastfold is one of the states that spend less on rehabilitation than other parts of the country, and actually has a greater need. One of the things they're experiencing is that there's too few standardised rehabilitation processes here. This applies to elderly patients who have coals or who are going back after a heart attack or stroke. We have a major task of standardising more and getting more actors to cooperate across specialist health services and primary health services, and the Hospital of Askim cooperates with the specialist healthcare service. This we need to put resources centrally, and there's one way we can distribute resources smarter and better. Then there are also – I was concerned with public health – opportunities to make better use of resources in common. The light of life is one of the offers that are authorized, and where a private person is able to help others. We also need to develop and make greater use of such offers. There are a lot of resources to play on, but in sum, this requires a better organization and allocation of resources to get out the product we all actually agree on that we want to strengthen. As far as the local economy is concerned, of course, it is an important part of this, but we have seen a formidable development in the local economy in recent years. That's not where it necessarily beaches. It is both the priorities of the municipalities and how we allocate resources between the state and the municipality in order to achieve effective organisation, which is one of the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1444	How we allocate resources between the state and the municipality is just about whether the municipal sector should have a larger share of the total economy than it currently has – just to solve these tasks and have enough staff to ensure that care also includes what this proposal is about, and the government will present that in its rehabilitation plan. It's probably not that it's necessarily the size of the municipality that decides whether quality and dimensioning are right. It's about whether there's money to hire enough people to do the job, and that resources are not just used to manage themselves, but actually to assist those who need assistance in different areas – that you have the opportunity to do the job properly. Then I think it's a little unaccountable to talk about 700 municipalities and things like that, because I guess no one meant it. The discussion about physiotherapy and ergotherapy is a detail. The reason I asked about it was that the council said exactly what he said now, in the line change – that you would not take a decision about this now, but come back to the details. I perceive that he corrected it in his answer, so that he took away the impression that the Council of State thought that if you should have different prostheses into this, it is a detail, because it may be impossible. There must be some people who can rehabilitate — if you want to raise the level and volume of rehabilitation. Then these professional pros are absolutely necessary. I also believe that we should look at operators, because it is an important piece that is invaluable to many, and also cooperation with the voluntary sector. It's important. With regard to time thieves and the removal of some of the reporting procedures that are now, the Council of State did not respond directly to my question, which was linked to the IPLOS registration, which was very controversial when it was implemented. What the use of it has been to now, I am in doubt about. It is very detailed, and there are a lot of reporting procedures that employees now have to deal with. Some of it is necessary, but I think it is absolutely necessary to go through all of this and standardise it to some important indicators that can say something entirely substantive about the quality of what is being done, and that indicators can be used for something that has consequences, both for municipal operations and for the state funding of municipal operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1455	Spokesman! No, President! That's what it's like to be on all levels. This has been an interesting debate to sit and listen to. I record that the representative Toppe was not so happy that it was pointed out that the Senterpartiet has not only voted against, but they actually agreed to remove the professionals from the hospital – and now they are for it. We're very pleased, that's exactly why government parties have made sure that ergot therapists are also going to be a profession that's now going into the hospitals. That is why I look forward to the rehabilitation plan that comes later. Similarly, it is interesting to listen to the representative Karin Andersen and SV, who have been fighting the standard for eight years – at least all the times that the proposal has been up to – but now all of a sudden it has been for eight years. But that's how it works. But I am very pleased that this issue of rehabilitation comes as high on the agenda as it is now, and the debate we have had today, because it shows that everyone agrees that this is an important area that it is important to strengthen and that it is important to do something about. And I can sign on to that representative Toppe says, unfortunately, it's like a lot of hospitals that you can get a pretty good offer before you get to the hospital, but when you get there, you feel that the offer you had about rehabilitation and that kind of thing is gone because it's the hospital that takes over, and you don't have those arrangements, or you don't. Of course, it can also be about resources, but some people are able to do it with the same resources in relation to the local economy. So I think it's a little bit about will and having pressure and focus on the area, then it's amazing what you can do to get in place. So I'm very pleased with the debate, and I've been glad that the Council of State will present the message, when it comes to the Storting, and I think there's going to be a lot we can agree on. What I think everyone here agrees on is that with activity means a lot to the quality of life, both physically and mentally, and that's why it's also important. It also shows, as the Council of State pointed out, that, as in Stavanger, you can save both money and not least give better quality of life, and that is the most important thing about this, namely to give better quality of life to those who need these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1466	Only a minor correction to the representative Hoksrud: removing the law of individual prophecies to the detriment of others, who are not legally established, is not the same as removing professions. What I was concerned about in my post instead, was that the law of professionals says nothing about quality and dimensioning. As some professionals' representatives have said several times to us, the law of a profession may mean that it is a minimum position, which does nothing from or to. So law enforcement is not a sufficient premise, maybe it's not a necessary premise, as we see it. Then again to the Council of State and the plan of escalation of rehabilitation and rehabilitation: we created a national strategy and a stepping-up plan for youth rehabilitation. A national strategy of money on rehabilitation and rehabilitation can, of course, be seen as a stepping-up in any case — a stepping-up with a national strategy. So let's now agree on that, sail if we can use a little bit of different words on it. That being said, I look forward very much to the Council of State coming up with an escalation plan, which I understood would happen this year – if I understood him correctly. Then I expect it to arrive sometime in the autumn, before the turn of the year. I look forward to that. But there is nothing in the lawmaking of individual prostheses that guarantees good care and care, nor good rehabilitation or habilitation. It is also necessary to describe something with regard to dimensioning and not least to quality. I hope that the Council of State will come back and say something more concrete than what he now did in the answer to the question I asked him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1477	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1480	To the representative Hoksrud: SV has been fighting for crew reform all the time, even when we were in government. But if you listen to the posts here now, you realize that there was one thing that SV did not get used to in government. But we've been for it all along. It's true, as the representative Knutsen now says, that a crew norm doesn't solve everything. You have to have this with the quality and the scope as well. The two important things for us when we think that we need to have manning standards are precisely that you ensure that you have the right skills in place – because it must be in place – and the second is that when you make such demands, it is not just the municipalities that are required. They are also addressed to the State which is to finance it. It's very important, because you have a very easy time adopting a lot of things that the municipalities are going to do. But to decide that they actually have a good enough financial framework to be able to realize all the requirements, it's one more piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1504	At the time of the adoption of the National Health and Hospital Plan by the Stortingen, a joint committee agreed that higher and new requirements for renting in the future healthcare will have to be met. The decision was taken that city-based rentals should be the main rule in hospitals. The Committee stressed in the setting the need for the leader to be able to identify them in order to develop the professional environment in the best possible way. Today, the legal requirement for renting in healthcare professionals is that there should be uniform rental at all levels, in order to maintain clear responsibilities. In its setting up of the National Health and Hospital Plans, the members of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, stated that they ‘support the principle of local management, as is the case in Ringerijk Hospital in the West Viken.’ The party further stated that ‘the complexity and size of hospitals in Norway must be taken into account’. Finally, a joint committee was behind the proposal that urban leases should be the main rule in hospitals. However, on the same day that the Stortinget adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan, Health Møre and Romsdal made a decision on a new governance model where they did not introduce urban leadership, but instead expanded the clinic organisation and clinic management. In an answer to a written question, the Council of State has stated that what he suggested in Question Time on 13 April about quiet rentals at Ringerijk Hospital was misleading. The Council of State then stated: ‘I perceive that the model that is now for discussion, in Møre and Romsdal, is very much based on the same principles as the model of the Ring Kingdom Hospital – which several, not least representatives of the Centre Party, have developed as a very good solution.’ In the answer to the written question from 22 April 2016, the Council of State opposes this. It is established that what Health More and Romesdal have adopted is something quite different from the principle on which the model Ring Reich Hospital is based. The Ringerix model has the ultimate leader in internal medicine, surgery, gynaecology and obstetrics – i.e. the heavy records – while the Russians, psychiatry, X-rays and labs are held outside and organized in a joint clinic lead in the enterprise. What Health More and Romesdal have adopted is to lead a model with transverse clinics and to extend them to include surgical operations. So it's called that in the next phase, they're going to decide how to organize quiet leadership. In the written reply from the Council of State, it is also shown that: ‘[a]the managing director is aware, however, that the choice of management is time-limited according to the current situation, and that at a later stage in functional distribution, interaction and standardisation, it can well be expected to organise the somatic clinics in the individual hospitals, such as the West Viken HF.’ So how are we going to understand this answer -- that if you want to pay rent, it's only after emergency functions are down and the activities are centralized? How is the decision of the Stortinget fulfilled – that city-based leasing should be the main rule in Norwegian hospitals – when the State Council itself approves the introduction of clinic leases as the main rule of an entire enterprise? Does the decision in Stortinget not matter at all? There are, not many, people here who have been very dishonest in the debate. I mean that unclear political signal is worse than no signal. I have taken this up with the Council of State on two written questions and on one question-time – whether the decision in Health More and Romesdal on clinic organisation is in line with the will of the Stortinge, and whether the Council of State believes this is to introduce urban rental as a general rule in Norwegian hospitals. The Minister of Health, as many are well aware, had a business meeting on 4 May with all the regional health care providers. In this respect, it was stated that the Stortinget has decided that the system of urban renting should be the general rule in Norwegian hospitals, but in the Business Meeting the State Council clarified ‘the requirement of local management does not prevent the use of transverse clinics. In a cross-sectional clinic structure, the clinic manager must ensure that there are managers at the different geographical locations authorised to exercise local management. At the same time, the business meeting reminded that health care businesses must organise their activities in a way that ensures that the requirements of the law on uniform management are met.» This means that the Council of State believes that the Landfill Decision on Urban Lease is fulfilled in a purely clinical lease, where some local leases are given to the individual of the trade unionists. But how is this to work in practice? What kind of authority can be given to ensure a quiet lease when the local manager has minimal responsibility for what is going on in the local place? If an e.g. if the head of the clinic is responsible for surgery in one hospital as a city-leader there, he shall not be responsible for the whole medical department, for food or obstetrics, for X-rays and labs, nor for commercial or structural conditions. What kind of local leader will it be? And what kind of local rental does it get out of this? Back to the committee position, which I think is now set aside: in it says a single committee: ‘The Committee believes that local management is an important principle, inter alia, because long-term decision-making leads to unclear lines of responsibility, uncertainty and that target formulations and strategies are not fully anchored in hospitals. Local management is a necessary step for better interaction between hospitals.’ The Committee further states: ‘The Committee stresses that local management is strongly involved in building a good culture and a strong professional environment. Good culture and working environment are created by having a local manager who can contribute to the necessary clarifications in day-to-day operation and minimise uncertainties, ensure a clear division of tasks and who knows the environment and framework conditions of employees by participating closely in patient treatment.» In addition: ‘The Committee will emphasise that first-line managers in hospitals are in many ways the key to better working environment, culture and management. First-line leaders lead the patient-treater meeting, are responsible for translating the political message into practice, and control the economy and quality of delivery in many ways.’ And finally: ‘The daily operation or work of the desired change may not work without a manager physically present at the workplace.’ I would say that one should be quite hurt at will when one is able to read the committee setting in such a way that one in the business meeting is approached to encourage health care providers to introduce clinic management anyway, and that what the committee has written should not be understood in such a way that the health care provider should read the committee setting and believe that it should be an obstacle to introducing clinic organisation. When I heard the words about quiet rental as a general rule, I thought in my naivety that yes, it might be thought of the people who have a small hospital, where they introduced quiet rental, but not at all everyone. I was thinking of Health Fonna in Hordaland, who has introduced quiet rentals, but not Odda hospitals. That quiet rental should not be introduced into an entire enterprise where we talk about large hospitals such as Molde Hospital and Ålesund Hospital, I could not have believed that was a result of the committee's decision. Both the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the proposal and the setting of urban rental in the National Health and Hospital Plan. Case-speaker Kristin Örmen Johnsen's first comment on the decision in Health Møre and Romsdal was to ask the director there to read the hospital plan. The Labour Party has also expressed its scepticism for what has happened. If the Health More and Romesdal decision is pending, it is also an important signal to other undertakings. I know that Health Nord follows closely here, and is accepted in More and Romesdal, so that's the result also in the north. Can the Council of State explain to the Council today how quiet rental is to be provided when a clinic lease is introduced, and – once again – explain how he and the government feel that this is to follow up the decision of the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1565	When the Stortinget examined the National Health and Hospital Plan, the following majority proposals were adopted: ‘The decision asks the government through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that local management becomes the general rule in Norwegian hospitals.’ The representative Toppe raises the question of what I want to do to ensure new and better management of Norwegian hospitals, and how I will follow up the Storting decision. In line with the Stortingen's request decision, I have asked regional health companies to base their work on plans and the operation of the specialist health service. This happened at the enterprise meeting on 4 May. Regardless of organisation, good communication and closeness to the nearest manager shall be ensured. Conversion processes and changes in the organisational model shall take place in cooperation and in good dialogue with employees and their organisations. In the business meeting I also showed that appropriate division of tasks and requirements for complete patient conduct requires close cooperation and professional and organisational network functions between hospitals, and that the organisation should support this. I believe that these frameworks provide the Storting with the assumption that there should be both local management at hospitals and a strong, comprehensive management system across hospital boundaries in a health company. Leaders must be present and know their employees in order to develop the professional environments and provide the best possible patient care. A strong, comprehensive management system across hospital boundaries shall ensure holistic and good patient trajectory across professionals, departments, institutions and health care levels. Hospitals will work in teams. It is important for quality, for patient safety and for standardising treatment provision in all hospitals in the health business. It is also statutory that hospitals “must be organised in such a way as to be a responsible manager at all levels”. With uniform management at all levels, we ensure clear responsibilities and that employees have only one leader to deal with at each level. Hospitals in Norway have different complexity and sizes. This must be taken into account when establishing local management and the solution must be adapted to local circumstances. The Administrative Board and the Executive Director shall be responsible for ensuring that the organisation is appropriate and for ensuring the professionally sound operation. I will mention some examples of organisation that make some challenges visible: Health Møre and Romsdal HF have decided to continue a model with transverse clinics in a first phase and extend it also to surgical operations. In the next phase, they shall decide how local management is to be organised. An evaluation of Deloitte shows that the cross-sectional clinics contribute to the promotion of interaction across hospital boundaries, more equivalent health services, the continuity of professional development and improved resource use. A weakness at cross-sectional clinics was the experience that there was a lack of overall responsibility for the different geographical locations, and there was a need for local management and coordination. The Nordic Hospital HF was organised in 2009 according to a clinical model with continuous professional management in all areas, across locations. They have local management at a lower level of the organisation responsible for their own field of expertise at a geographical location. A new structure of powers shall facilitate the decentralisation of responsibilities and powers. An evaluation in 2013 recommends that the aggregation of joint clinics across geography be maintained and further developed. It is pointed out that the hospitals in Lofoten and Vesterålen would have been weaker without a wider professional environment at the hospital in Bodø. As improvement points, it appears that continuous, professional management must be in place in all clinics and that clinic managers must be regularly present at all locations. The Health and Care Committee refers to Vestre Viken HF and supports how local management is organised there. At the hospitals in Kongsberg, Drammen, Ringerijke and Bærum, local managers are responsible for the somatic departments. Psychiatric health protection, drug treatment, laboratory medicine, radiology, prehospital services and internal services are organised in cross-sectional clinics. Oslo University Hospital HF has cross-sectional clinics, where most units have local management where patient treatment takes place. In some smaller units, the tasks would be best managed by management across the site, concluded an internal review. Health Förde HF has cross-sectional clinics, with the exception of Nordfjord Hospital. Local manager is primarily responsible for communication and interaction locally and reports to the Executive Director. As I have shown, health companies have adapted in different ways the organisation of hospitals to local management and transversal clinics. The question is whether the local management framework should be defined more closely than the size has been decided. In my opinion, it is important that health businesses have the opportunity to design management models adapted to local needs, complexity and size within the framework set by the Storting. There is a need for better interaction and interaction between hospitals, and there is a need for closeness to local authorities at the geographical locations. The question of the level of local authority is central. In today’s organisation, there are different variants of cross-cutting and geographical clinics, departments and units. However, four levels of management in health enterprises are normal: the Executive Director, the head of clinic or the head of hospital, the head of department and the head of department or unit. The Health and Care Committee has expressed the view that the first line managers should be brought forward close to patient treatment. The requirement for local management is particularly important for staff engaged in patient treatment. In most health enterprises, this will be the leadership level 4 section or unit. Managers at this level have many employees below them, and it is therefore important that the manager is present. Most hospital units are managed locally at level 4. At the level above, level 3, only managers report, and it is not as crucial that the manager be present at all times. On a general basis, local management at the top of the organisation would be beneficial for local coordination and overall responsibility, while cross-cutting management combined with local management at lower location in the organisation would be beneficial for coordination between hospitals, more equivalent healthcare services, continuity of professional development and better resource use. The needs will vary between health businesses, and they will also vary over time. Everything is moving towards flexibility for the senior management of the health business to organise activities in the way that is perceived as best possible to achieve good results. The Management Board and the Executive Director shall be responsible for the soundness and functioning of the management system at all levels. It is also up to top management to organise the management system and activities within the regulatory requirements. It is important that the person responsible for the activity has the ability to adapt the management system to the size of the establishment and the need for cooperation with and dependence on other hospitals. This applies both to immediate assistance and to planned healthcare. It is difficult to imagine that by making detailed demands on a particular model, you will be able to embrace all local conditions. As mentioned, I have demanded in the business meeting that regional health companies follow up the Storting decision that local management is the general rule in Norwegian hospitals. It should be for the health business management and the Executive Director, in cooperation with the trustees and employees, to find good solutions on how best to organise the business. I also pointed out that the requirement of local management does not prevent the use of cross-sectional clinics. In a cross-sectional clinic structure, the clinic manager must ensure that there are managers at the different geographical locations authorised to exercise local management. It is therefore necessary for health undertakings to review their mandate structure in the follow-up to the request decision of the Storting. It is necessary to consider how the different levels of management should take decisions, including: on resource issues and the organisation of work and how powers on the road to the first line should be designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1615	What's up with me in this case is that we don't get more clinical guidance in Norwegian hospitals, which I don't have any faith in, that's the recognition that Stortinget deals with a matter – we write things in notes, one says things in debates – and when it comes to the matter, it has no value whatsoever. If that state council says so, then the reality – unless the Storting mannequin tells us that something else is going to happen – will continue as before, and after all the work we had on the Sickness Plan, I thought it was very sad to witness. In previous answers, the government has made a number that the Central Party proposed a different location with a different content than the multiple content of the option, and that is quite correct. I agree with one thing of what councillor Höie said in his post, and that's that the majority in the Stortinget wasn't good enough to define what they meant by quiet rental. I guess it was just the central part as defined, and we didn't get multiples for that, and it's okay, but what was agreed was too inexhaustible. So we have this situation right now, and it has to clean up the whole thing. The centre party – and we've always meant that – proposed to have the Vossa model as a template for a quiet rental. The Director of Voss has survived himself and the business system. He has our director since before 2002, he is responsible for the entire hospital – all departments, construction, cleaning, everything that is – and it works brilliantly. As a next compromise, we can then go in favour of a Ringerix model, one of which at least has a municipal leader who is responsible for the most important somatic posts: surgery, internal medicine and food. But what we now experience in Health More and Romesdal is that it doesn't even fit in with a ‘urban lease’. It's actually a full clinic organization, where one says some nice words that one should still be able to get a decent rent. I'm sorry, but I don't understand how to ensure a quiet lease as the committee described it in the setting, in a clinic organization. That's also why I'm dealing with this interpolation. It is an important matter, and I have not received an answer to this in my previous questions to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1626	Let there be no doubt that Storting’s decision that local management should be the general rule in Norwegian hospitals has an impact on the follow-up of health companies afterwards. This is now – May 4th this year – set as part of the requirement for healthcare businesses, which they will follow up after the adoption of the National Health and Hospital Plan by the Stortinget. But as the population also expressed in the setting, there are different ways to achieve this. The model of the centre part was not a model that the bulk of the storage should be the rule everywhere. This does not mean that the model of the centre party cannot be used in those places where a local find it reasonable. The ringerix model, referred to by the bulk population, is a model that combines transverse clinics with local management. That's the principle of that model. There are different types of sites, e.g. in Nordfjord, which also has local management, which is perceived as an important contribution to a positive development in that hospital. Then the representative repeatedly points to Health Moor and Romesdal. It is such that there is a model that is not finished. There is a model that started before one was familiar with what Stortinget thought about this area, with a clinic structure, but management has been very clear on – and that is of course so – that Health Møre and Romsdal also have to follow up the leaders who have come from Stortinget, and next time from me in the business meeting, and find a solution to how to establish local management. But the representative Toppe has no chance of passing a verdict on that model now. In that case, the representative Toppe has to look into the future, because that model is not yet made. We also need to be able to give our healthcare companies some time to follow up the Storting decision and the business meeting that was held on 4 May. When Health Møre and Romsdal have established their local management model, they will rather discuss whether they agree or disagree whether it is within the framework set by the Stortinget, but I take it as a matter of course that all healthcare companies are following up on the mission they have now received at the business meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1635	It's not always so easy to describe what good management or a good leader is, but I think everyone who has seen or experienced good management, nevertheless knows what we're talking about. I've learned most of what I can do in life, except for a few years at school and at the university, from people who had this in them, or who had learned to lead people in a good way. This is often related to experience. You have to work through some fields to gain that experience. One must have been through some of the crucial moments in which to choose, not always between good alternatives, but between the least bad option and the worst option. You have to work through the dilemmas, you have to get acquainted with the people you want to lead, and you have to know that it's important to have good people around you. I often draw out the example of Ringerijk, who has also been present in this interpellation debate. There are many examples of good leaders around Hospital-Norway, and they are often very different. Therefore, when we dealt with the medical plan of the government, the Workers' Party was concerned that we should help to make this management dimension visible in the treatment of the plan, the importance of having good managers present at many levels in hospitals. After traveling and visiting many places, we became more and more convinced that one of the answers was to embrace this idea that leaders and those who are to be led, in interaction, operate best when one is close enough to have no daily contact, so at least contact often enough to know where one has one another. This ended with, as the inter-pellant and the Council of State have perfectly pointed out, a majority here in the United Kingdom agreed to a principle which we in the Labour Party promoted quite early in that process, namely that in Norway it should be a general rule that there is local management in Norwegian hospitals. I also see that the inter-pellant and others have contributed to the fact that there should be a debate in Stortinget on what it meant. I've publicly said what I mean about it, and I like to repeat it here. I mean – and that is my best advice – that in those places where we see it working best, there are leaders with decision-making responsibility and authority close enough, where people actually work – unlike elsewhere, where at least I perceive that it is not quite as successful, where there is often a kind of remote management, where people are much further apart from each other than what might be good. Does that mean, however, that I believe that a large number of people would instruct a government about how a single health company should organise its model? No, I think it would be to go far beyond the line, both because it would not be right, and because it would interfere with the management tasks assigned to both the Minister of Health, as the top responsible, and also the managers we have in service. That's why I don't think there's any need for it, but I still want to make it clear what was the background to the principle that we joined and proposed here in the Stortinget. The reason why we believe in local management in the form that is clear but pragmatic is that this works well both ways. I am absolutely convinced that if you are to bring with you employees who are concerned about their subject, about their patients, about their work, about more change, new technology, service innovation, you should also ensure that people who are present in that everyday life, who can communicate both ways, who are able to anchor difficult balances and decisions among their own, but who are also clear to communicate the opposite way the experiences and priorities that competent employees want to flow into the system. They must be sure that precisely this is done by the fact that there are leaders with decision-making powers, with a direct line to those who decide – to say it in a popular way – that can pass this on. It creates trust. It creates if not calm, so at least more confidence that tough transformations can also take place in the future in a good way. This is how we can develop Norwegian healthcare and Norwegian hospitals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1655	Quality, patient safety and management are closely linked. In any case, much greater attention needs to be paid to the overall course of patients across professions and across hospitals. Good management is about communication and being able to build trust and cooperation. Local management is one instrument that can help staff to meet their needs for the necessary clarifications on the ground, follow-up and coordination of tasks and services. Good management is something that cannot be decided – it must be worked over a long period of time. And local management is not a magic form, if anyone thought so. Good management, however, is not just about local management. All hospital staff shall know who is the nearest director, and the challenges vary from place to place. It is we, as a magnificence, who are to facilitate the external framework for good leadership, and that the leaders are actually given the opportunity to direct and exercise their discretion within these frameworks. There is no intention for the Storting to regulate in detail how management works. We're neither directors nor directors. Health enterprises need to have a flexibility to design management models based on local needs, and the Stortinget has said that local management is one tool. Local management is closely linked to executive powers, and it is essential for the development of good management that it is clearly defined. There is a process currently started. An Chairperson must have the necessary powers to manage staff. Whole patient pathways require close cooperation between both professional and organisational network functions, as we talked about in the National Health and Hospital Plan. This should be supported by the organisation. Hospitals need to work more in teams and not focus on competition about who can treat most patients and have the most specialities. We don't need directors as small kings in each of our hospitals, but we need leaders who complement each other and who are able to exploit the flexibility of the organization. It'll benefit the patients. Management takes place at many levels in enterprises, and management is dynamic, as development in the health sector is. We don't want a governance model that gets cemented. We also want a new governance model for businesses. The Ministry has reduced the Women’s Country Committee, which is to investigate alternative models, so that the regional level is not as it is today. We have many levels of leadership today. A new model, when it comes, will also affect corporate governance. Finally, I still stand by the fact that the directors have a good idea of reading the Stortinge's treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, not only as regards management, but also as regards other things, including what we have written about. quality related to management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1678	First, I would like to thank the representative Toppe for bringing up this topic. In my opinion, management is the biggest challenge for public activities. We see so many examples that the management of public business is too weak, so that we get a bureaucracy and a resource loss that would not have been accepted in private business. We are now talking about the local management of hospitals that are part of the emergency department. It's an organization that is very complex, very demanding, and that is being put on a number of difficult challenges every day. When, in the opinion of the Centre Party, local management is essential, there is, point one, because there must be a clear responsibility. There shall be a clear responsibility for the manager of the local business, so that if good things are done, praise is given, and if bad things are done, they also have consequences. Point two: Local management gives you an opportunity to see the whole of your daily operations. A hospital is an institution with very many professionals with different responsibilities, and they are large and very demanding organisations where the little things determine whether it works every day, whether one gets the expected efficiency. Local management is also vital to have a leader who can inspire the flock in a hospital, that one can gain the pride that everyone in a hospital needs in order to bring the hospital forward. So what's local management? I'm pulling Ring Reich out. Ring Reich is lucky and has a dynamic leader named Per Bleitelia. But Per Pinkelia is far from responsible for anyone who makes up the team called Ringerijk Hospital. Per Pinkelia is not responsible for the X-ray and is not responsible for the lab, not responsible for the cleaning staff, not responsible for the food, not responsible for the maintenance and not responsible for the first person who meets you when you get into the hospital, and you ask to meet it and that patient. So Per Pinkelia has limited local management responsibilities. This was really pointed out when the same Per Bleidelia received a price for good leadership, and a cake was purchased for Per Bleidelia. So who would get the pie pieces? Was it those who were in Per Pinkelia's leadership, or was it the whole flock? Per Bleitelia, as the good leader he was, invited the whole flock, also those who were on the reindeer, those who were on the food, those who were on the x-ray, and those who were on the lab. Per Pinkelia wants to have an overall local management, because it's the whole local management that needs to be screwed together every single day, every single hour, to get a good result. What we're talking about here is a management philosophy, and it's been carefully discussed in the control committee in the context of preparedness organisation. There is a growing government communication on social security and preparedness, and the Control Committee agreed that management, culture and attitudes defined as operational management must be established. What I have to say is the strongest thing when I hear the debate here, is that there are so few who go into what kind of management philosophy you should have. What the control committee has been very careful about is the need to have a new, decentralised management philosophy, so-called mission-based management, to ensure initiative, creativity, ownership of work, sense of responsibility and thus collective commitment. This should be joint ownership and independent of political directions, that one escapes the collective commitment and responsibilities. And it's important that we have a management, not least for hospitals, which sees the need to get to and use the experiences and assessments of their employees, where those in the first line are given authority, trust and encouragement to use their skills. At the same time, the first-line people in education who provide security in the exercise of demanding tasks must have equipment that is modern, to perform the tasks, and one must ensure that the individual has good communication with his or her working group. It is true for all preparedness organisations that one needs a decentralised management that can realise the intent of the overall level, and there we are at something significant. Obviously, the decentralised, local management of a hospital, somatic or psychiatric, must work in line with the intent of the overall management. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1695	Thank you very much for the interpellant for the initiative for this debate. We discuss hospital management quite often, also in Stortinget. It's necessary. But I think it might be nice to remind you that hospital management is not extremely special. It is no more specific than the management of other knowledge activities, such as: media enterprises, universities, theatres, perhaps even the Norwegian Church. First of all, the main theme of the interpellant: local management. In the course of many debates on local management, I have not captured the fact that some of the debaters/sides claim that there is research with verifiable methods for or against local management. I do not think that is necessary either. I believe it follows from all the usual, popular and wise management understanding that the smartest thing is that people know who the boss is, that the boss is present, and that the boss and employee can communicate like that. It's that simple. I'm done with it. Complicated questions, e.g.: in a hospital day, most often the best solution is joint reflection between colleagues or between employee and manager when shoulder to shoulder. But then it's also that sometimes it's simply not possible to get local management. I am absolutely sure that everyone accepts and understands. What's the problem is the times top managers choose to construct models to get away from a decision on location management and then defend the grip on neural speech. It's short and not smart. I think it's bad management, and it'll be over time to deliver worse results. The interpellation also invites a slightly wider debate on management. What are good leaders? Does the research give the answer? In a study I saw many years ago, they studied the common characteristics of leaders. There were disappointing few common features. The two features that struck significantly were, first, that leaders as a group are on average a little higher in centimeters than those that are not leaders, and the second characteristic that struck through was that there was a large majority of men. So I feel like it's not that easy to get the answers out of research. My own experience of good hospital management after being managed and self-directed for three decades is among other things. this: My experience is that good leaders have learned more about the management of their parents than they have learned from going on a course. Good leaders are themselves, they're more concerned with being good role models than big party speakers. Good leaders follow loyal structures and rules, but know when the exceptions that are completely magical must be made. And in our understanding of management – I am best acquainted with hospitals – I believe that the large department management team is more important than the small top management team. When all departments in a large hospital are doing well, the hospital is also doing well. Our hospitals have over 100,000 employees. That is, thousands of leaders are needed at different levels. Our debates and expectations must not make it invincible for ordinary good people who want to lead, to become leaders. So let's not cultivate problems in management. Leadership is also rewarding, exciting, and having a leadership position is a privilege.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1708	Thank you especially for the last post, from the representative Are Health. I must also thank the others who have spoken here, although I must say that I lack the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been on the decision. But that's the way it is. I agree with what the representative Are Health said that this is really very simple. It says itself why urban rental is important, and why the Storting has been so busy with it. We don't need any research, it's actually quite logical, and I think it's obvious that we haven't come anymore. I've been excited about the posts from the Working Party and the Right in this interpellation debate. I record that neither the Labour Party nor the Right would like to go in and review health services. It's not that obvious, because this is what the Center Party has been saying all along, that the National Health and Sickness Plan will have no value, because it's not a political will to go out and try out healthcare professionals – even when it comes to urban rental, it turns out. I have to admit, I'm disappointed in this. One says this is detail. Yes, if a party thinks that these are details that businesses have to decide themselves, why do we spend so much time and effort and write long comments about this – if the Storting thought it was hip-hop if the business actually introduced it or not? So to the Workers' Party: they went out in the media, in today's business, and said that now they would go in to order the hospitals to appoint their own bosses at the local hospitals – Today's Business Day March 3rd. The Micasen, who took the floor here, said to the newspaper that it is “a little bit in need of making demands that intervene in the way they organize,” for this reason the Workers' Party believes that the companies have to make decisions about themselves. "But now we've gone too far to sit and watch," said Micaelsen. But it was March. I get to register that there is no political plurality for what the Center Party wants in this matter. I thought that was a pity, but I hope that there would be the most quiet rental out there, not because of the Storting, but despite the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1722	It is not correct, as the representative Toppe said in the last post, that Storting’s decision does not matter. It's important. It has already been followed up in the business meeting. It is also not a complete representation of the interview with the representative Torgeira Mikalsen in today's business. He stressed in the same interview that there would be a need for room for different local adaptations. I have seen that have been the views of the Workers' Party and the majority of the population all along. What would have been alarming was if, as Minister of Health and Care, I had commissioned the companies to implement the Central Party's policy in this area, which was downgraded in Stortinget. It would have been very alarming. It is said very wisely by many today about leadership, both from the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Right and others, which I fully agree with. But I want to stress that management starts at the top. That means that what has been said about the importance of empowering leaders applies at all levels. It also provides a guide to the importance of giving authority, that is, room for action, to leaders at the different levels. That means that both I, as Minister of Health and Care and the Stortinget, have to think through what leads we give from the different levels, precisely to empower the different levels of good management. That is one of the reasons why this year's mission document has received a short version, which is a small folder that I always agree with in my pocket. There are the three overall objectives for the service with a few very few indicators below each objective, which are so short that every leader at all levels knows that it is the overall mission they have from the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It is important that when we give a lead on the idea that we should have local management as a general rule in Norwegian hospitals, we have confidence that the different levels of leadership have the opportunity to have room for action to find good local solutions. That is why I fully agree with the two important concepts that the representative Torgeir Micasen made in his statement, namely that local management is about the proximity of the people to be led, and then it is about authority and authority to lead. It applies at the different levels. It is quite right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that a leader must see the whole, but the leaders above often have a larger whole to take responsibility for. So leaders at the different levels must have the ability to be led into a larger unit, and therefore, this balance is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1733	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1749	Personalised medicine aims to provide a better balance between the patient’s biology, diagnostics and treatment. More complete information on the individual patient will increase the chances of successful treatment, while at the same time reducing the risk of adverse reactions. You could say, in a way, that personalization is the ideal thing in medicine. Today’s diagnosis is based on the patient’s history of disease, with symptoms and tests, pathological evaluation and laboratory analyses of blood and tissue samples — and, in addition, often image studies. But this information is not always enough, unfortunately. There is a sense that there is a need for more personalisation and more precision in medical treatment. Every day a number of patients are treated without one achieving the desired result. This means that many people receive treatment they do not benefit from and, in the worst case, treatment may cause serious side effects. The objective must be to enable health services to distinguish those who would enjoy treatment from those who would not achieve efficacy. Personalised medicine provides more targeted treatments and is already in use in some areas. The field is very much driven by research and technology development, and for the time being we only know the contours of the scale. In order to benefit from the new treatment principles for patients, a significant boost and coordinated national effort are needed. This is absolutely necessary to maintain people’s confidence that public health services offer the best treatment. There is a broad political consensus that this type of medicine will become increasingly important. The government of Stoltenberg wanted to develop a national and holistic strategic approach to personalised medicine. The former Minister of Health, Jonas Gahr Støre of the Workers' Party, announced in spring 2013 that regional health companies under the leadership of Health South-East were commissioned to investigate personalised medicine in healthcare. The report was finalised in 2014 and has now been followed up by the government with a national strategy for personalised medicine, which has been consulted. Unfortunately, the reception of the strategy can only be described as the lukewarm, even the members of the reference group believe that the strategy should be more ambitious. When the Council of State spoke in Stortinget in connection with the Workers' Party's proposal to focus on personalised medicine on 4 June last year, i.e. 2015, he said the following: ‘The strategy shall be for healthcare and shall support the development and implementation of personalised medicine. The report of the national investigation and other relevant information shall form the basis for the work. The strategy shall identify a vision for personalised medicine in Norway and include an action plan for personalised medical care. The plan shall mention inclusion in the service, communication, patient guidance, competence and education, technology and organisation, collection and handling and use of data and clinical research. It shall also address socio-economic aspects of personalised medicine, including prioritisation. The work shall be carried out as an open process involving relevant stakeholders.’;» It sounded very promising, but unfortunately the reception of the strategy is not applause, almost on the contrary, I would say. The cancer association has called the strategy ‘a gastric plaque’, while the pharmaceutical industry says that the proposal ‘ lacks ambition and direction’. Industry also lacks a stronger link to the objectives of the Government's action plan to the Health Care21 strategy. A larger international perspective of centralised solutions is the demand of industry, while the strategy proposes regional solutions. The Council of Biotechnology Consultation Opinion states that the draft national strategy ‘does not go far enough in setting out directions and concrete measures’ for the introduction of personalised medicine into healthcare. In its consultation response, the Council also calls for an approach to the ethical and political challenges of personalised medicine to be addressed, in particular in terms of consent, information sharing and transparency. The working party is very aware that the introduction of personalised medicine raises a number of professional, ethical, practical and economic issues. This must therefore be done after careful examination and with clarity. Of course, in the Workers' Party, we expect the national strategy to be seen in the context of the forthcoming call for priority and the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. That is why, like the hearing bodies, we are missing some. Therefore, I ask: What are the ambitions of the Council of State on behalf of Norway and patients in this work? And what will the Council of State do to respond to the criticism that has come from relevant actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1771	I share the view of the HR that personalised medicine brings with it opportunities for more targeted treatment, and that there is a need for a coordinated national effort, so that development can benefit Norwegian patients. The representative refers to the national strategy for personalised medical care, which is now being developed by the Health Directorate on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. A draft strategy has been widely consulted on the deadline of 6 May. The deadline for completing the strategy is 1 June. The national strategy contains the Health Directorate’s technical recommendation on how the field of personalised medicine should be developed in the future. The strategy shall support the service of the development and implementation of personalised medicine. This was one of the leaders of the Ministry's mandate. In addition, it was emphasised that the strategy should identify a vision of objectives for the development and admission of personalised medicine in healthcare. The level of ambition should be aligned with priorities, expected developments in knowledge and technology and organisational and available economic frameworks. The strategy should be based on the existing legislation. The Directorate has used several sources of work, including: the report of the national investigation carried out by the regional health establishments in 2014 and the recommendations made there. In order to carry out the mission, the Directorate has set up five thematic working groups with broad participation from healthcare, user organisations, public agencies, industry and other stakeholders. They have also received contributions from a project group with representatives from the Joint Organisation of Disability People, the Norwegian Association for General Medicine, the Health Regions and the Directorate-General for Health. In addition, a broad-based reference group has been set up by a number of actors. New technologies and increased knowledge of molecular biology provide greater opportunities for more accurate and tailor-made prevention, diagnosis and treatment. Personalised medicine is mentioned in several messages and strategies. The national biotechnology strategy states that there is a high potential for improving the efficiency and quality of diagnostics and treatment through increased use of biotechnology. The Health Care2l strategy describes personalised medicine as part of the general health service in the near future. The government has mentioned personalised medicine in, for example: the notification of medicinal products, the national health and hospital plan and our action plan for the follow-up to the health care strategy2l. In the pharmaceutical notification, we say that personalised medicine can provide greater benefit to the patient in terms of faster and more precise diagnostics and better opportunities for individualised treatment with better effect and fewer side effects. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, we mention the possibilities, but also the prerequisites that must be present for the introduction and use of personalised medicine. The Healthcare Action Plan2l is precisely ‘safe, effective and personalized treatment’ as one of the areas we have identified. In other words, personalised medicine is a topic that is on my agenda, and I am closely following developments. The possibilities of personalised medicine have led to increased attention and optimism both nationally and internationally. Like Norway, several countries carry out investigations and preliminary analyses on how to ensure good development and implementation of personalised medicine. We know that personalization in diagnostics and treatment is a field of very rapid development, and we have to prepare to meet. It concerns everything from education and competence to technology, platforms, organisation and legal and ethical aspects. In the last few years, funding has been provided for infrastructure and projects that can help facilitate the development and implementation of personalised medicine in Norway. In 2015, the Norwegian Research Council allocated 77,2 million. kr to Phase II of a national consortium on sequencing and personalised medicine. The aim of this infrastructure is to ensure national capacity and regional competence building related to medical sequencing – as part of facilitating the development and implementation of personalised medicine in Norway. At the end of April, 168 million were allocated. kr to three ICT research projects for health. One of these – BIG data Medical, or BIGMED – is about personalised medicine. This project shall provide the basis for an ICT platform that removes several important bottlenecks that prevent the use of personalised medicine. The project will use the latest in ICT research to integrate and analyse large amounts of health data from different data sources, registers and databases. I believe that the extensive work done in designing a national strategy for personalised medicine will be an important basis for a coordinated national effort in this area. Once the national strategy has been completed, the government will assess how best to support the implementation of personalised medicine in the service. Measures requiring increased allocation of resources must, of course, be assessed and prioritised in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1809	Thank you to the Council of State for a full answer. There is no doubt that personalised medicine is high on the agenda for medical research in Norway, Europe and worldwide. The Council of State presented a number of projects with which Norway has a direct mandate, to put it very simply. That's how you track this as a "game changer" if you roll it out to the extent that you see hint to now. One of the challenges for healthcare will be to adapt structures to such a way of both providing medical treatment and diagnosing in the future. In recent years, there have been many new methods that map in a much faster, more accurate and fairer way than before. In addition to technology that becomes very available, it's a challenge how this will affect us. I just want to say that personalised medicine is an area where there's a lot of stakes, nationally and internationally. Cooperation between public and private actors is becoming essential in order to be able to participate in this development. In view of the matter we started the day with, I had hoped that we could have put a good floor plan to help this happen also in Norway, and that Norwegian actors will be in the front line to develop this. There are a number of initiatives in place in Europe, as we know, particularly under the Horizon 2020 research programme, and I can only say that we are eagerly waiting for the final strategy to be completed. And then we see that this needs to get an estimate of not least the priority message, presented in June, and also the revision of the Biotechnology Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1820	I fully agree with the representative that there have been great expectations of the results of personalised medicine. It is important that we prepare well for the changes that it will require, but that it also gives Norwegian healthcare and nutritionists in Norway opportunities that this might bring. There's a reason why we all put a little question mark behind a lot when we talk about this, because that's new, and we're not yet familiar with what results will actually come out of this. It'll come, hopefully, continuously. That is why I believe that a sensible approach from the political level is exactly what we are doing now, by asking the leading trade unions to develop a strategy so that we are sure that the areas in which we are putting our efforts are the right areas. I think it is important, what the Norwegian Research Council also contributes to, namely to support a national consortium that can just create the infrastructure that gives us a national capacity and a regional build-up of competences related to medical sequencing, which will be central to this. The same applies to the infrastructure that we are now building through the support of an ICT platform that will remove important bottlenecks that prevent the use of personalised medicine. With regard to the implementation of personalised medicine as a treatment in the service, it is important that it follows the same priority criteria as other medical treatments. There we have to go through the ordinary systems. But the responsibility for getting a strategy to build the infrastructure is in Norwegian context a public responsibility, and I believe that we have now started an important work, which is based on the work that was started under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1833	I am of the opinion that all medical treatment should be personalised, and it has also been as long as we have had medical personnel. ‘Personalised medicine’ is a magic word, but now we have a definition in the draft strategy. Nevertheless, this is not new. There's nothing new that there's a difference between people. There is nothing new that there is a difference between how patients respond to medical treatment. And it's not new either that we know that the genes matter for how medicines are distributed and taken up in the body. An example is a debate that has been going on for many years around selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, as it is called fine. It turns out that for two thirds of the population, it works, and for one third, it's mostly side effects. We can find that out today through genetic testing, and it is being done today to a very large extent in Norwegian environments. It's an interesting interpellation, but I don't think it's such that if only Norway comes to the front in this area, we've solved all the world's problems in medical disciplines. Because this is closely related to a couple of relationships. One is the relationship to biotechnology legislation – how far will we go, what are we going to map? We must have an important debate about it when we are going to revise the biotechnology legislation for the autumn. The second is the relationship to priority, on which the Council of State was also concerned. This is not free. The large volume of patients will still need standard treatment. If I get it right, I think at least that's how it gets. It has to be enough to refer to the discussions we have today about the introduction of new cancer medicine, where there is a big question of how much resources we have and how much we are going to spend on this. We have a tendency in politics to find a new word, a new phenomenon, and say, "This is the solution, this is what we're going for. I think personalized medicine will be important, but not only that which saves us. If we're going to succeed, there's two things that need to be put in place. One is research, and I believe that the government is doing well. I believe we have strengthened the research budgets in the specialist health service, but not least in the university environments. The second is that we have a culture to take the research out in the clinics. There we have good answers both in the medical notification and not least in the health and hospital plan, namely that we should focus on research at the clinics. Now, when we're discussing this, which is high-end medicine, we must not forget the chronicler groups. It'll be a little bit easy for us to discuss what's possible to get to the front in the new medicine, but we don't have to discuss this without looking at the chronicles, the ones that often end up a little bit further in the queue, the rehabilitation spaces, the diabetics, people with heart disease and all the other parts of the health system. Because it's a fact that while we're discussing this, we're about to have an interpellant debate on the diet in Norwegian nursing homes. It's also health crowns. I think it's great that the Workers' Party is impatient about personalised medicine. I would assume that they also want to see this in conjunction with other costs that we have in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1854	Thank you again for the initiative of the Labour Party and Ingvild Kjerkol for this debate. Now it was, maybe a little random, on the same day as the debate on biobanking. We started the day with great opportunities related to industry and industry, but also based on the fact that Norway has some unique advantage of having a personal number, that we have carried out health studies systematically over several decades, in particular the HUNT and the health survey in Tromsø. In the case of health records, we have an infrastructure in place. It can also prove very important when we're expanding and phased into personalized medicine. As the representative of Stensland was here, personalised treatment is what we might want to talk about. But personalised medicine will spread and get its own definitions the more of the genetic engineering possibilities we discover. Experience and patience are also important when we are dealing with this form of treatment. Listening to patients is important. Therefore, we should not forget to acquire knowledge about the forms of treatment in the course of treatment, how the patient groups respond, and whether they feel satisfied with the treatment. The professional environment shall also apply this and must be followed closely. Evaluation and research are therefore particularly important and a good reason why we should not go too fast. As others have noted, this must also be a priority which comes to the wake of both the prioritisation message and the notification of biotechnology. I believe, in particular, that the notification of biotechnology will be an important political debate. Now I belong to a liberal party, but if we look at how fast Norway is to implement new technologies in the health sector, I would say that we are also a conservative country politically. We were visiting in winter in the United Kingdom, and I'd say they're in a good position, including the so-called conservative parties there. So it kind of depends on how we put this debate in context. It is not to be expected that Norway will be the most forward-looking in using new technologies, when at home we may be a little backward and not the fastest in using new forms of treatment or new drugs. That's why it's also important to discuss the international perspective that someone's been dealing with here. The left has called for us to use funds as a model of cooperation – not necessarily as a funding model, but to cooperate with other countries and other actors in a more committed way, without necessarily costing the world. We also come to the debate on medium-term financing. What medications are accepted in decision-making forums, and which are not accepted? And are there any treatments and medications that we can phase into a waiting file, an experimental file, that we don't have today? This will be an important debate in the future, even when we are dealing with forms of cooperation, public–private cooperation. As we were in the first debate today, we need to find new forms of cooperation, because new players are constantly emerging who are given different mandates. We constantly need to develop new cooperation forums where, from time to time, the public will be short of traditional solutions and models. It's an exciting development. We've been talking about revolution before today, and this will be. It is important for Norway to follow, but systematic experience and systematic piloting are one way forward, which can lead us far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1871	I want to give tribute to the interpellant that has produced this interpellance. The Labour Party also had a document 8 proposal on this earlier in this session. So here's the working party that's been holding pressure up in this area, and I think it's great. To say that at the beginning, I thought, here I am: what are we really discussing today? This is not a single area of medicine, and it's something new. For my part, I have to go into these strategies. Nor can I imagine that during the years that I have been sitting on Stortinget, we have had something to do with this area. That's what I'm calling for. Here we're going to sit and say something about a strategy plan that the Health Directorate is now drafting. The proposal for document 8 included the report of regional health professionals, and now it will become a strategy. He's listening out in the system, but Stortinget's sitting on this side and he's gonna mean something. So it's said that this can go into different programming messages about biotechnology and about priorities, and that's quite okay, but what about this field? I demand that this had been presented to Stortinget as a whole matter of what should be our investment in this area. ‘Personalised medicine’ is the concept it receives. I notice that the Medical Association, I think it was, has an anti-named recording and rather suggested calling it "precision medicine". I have a little sense of it, because all medicine is basically personalization. But enough about it. What's in this strategy is not small: why we're going to have a strategy for personalised medicine. It says that this medicine is in an early phase and may have the potential to change the health service, that it represents a shift from reactive medicine to proactive and preventive health care. And the drug notification stated that all trends still indicate growth in the development and use of personalised treatment. This is the background for developing a strategy. So I haven't gone through all the listening drafts, but the basis for the interview is also that there are some concerns about the bet in this strategy. I notice that e.g. The Institute of Public Health is one of those who have a critical remark — and it is also another that some others say — that the strategy is being developed with a reference to staying within today’s economic framework. I understand that it's like this when you have a strategy, but given this area he's dealing with, I understand that someone thinks this is a restriction that doesn't matter. The second is that there is a limitation in the mandate that the strategy should be based on the subjects where personalised medicine has already been used in healthcare. It's a little forward-looking. The Directorate for eHealth is among those who think the level of ambition in the strategy is too low, and others point out that the diagnosis of rare diseases has come into the background. I see that this is a roll-out, and a roll-out can always be improved. Then it's good with a little political pressure to get it done. But when the strategy comes along, I would like to see this area anchored in Stortinget in a better way than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1888	Thank you for a good debate to everyone who has participated. I want to comment on a few of the posts. The representative of Stensland said that this is a new word. That's it, but it's a pretty powerful bet behind that word around us. I also fully agree with the representative of Stensland that there are a few things that are important. One is research, and the other is getting the research out of the clinics. The reason why the Workers' Party is very concerned about this is, first of all, that you see these scenarios that are drawn out, with better treatment, more precise treatment, less mistreatment – I should say – and great consequences for the way we can straighten out the service in the future. But then there's also a concern about getting an out-of-date strategy that might respond to a little bit of past problems because it's going very fast, it gets very quickly available. Since some of these new methods are so technology-driven, it will be available, and what does it do to our common public health service? Do we have the right to be in front of you? That's what the strategy test is. The Biotechnology Council is very concerned about this with competence and information, and it will be crucial. If this is to be phased into our common healthcare with more gene-based tests, we need guidance. The Biotechnology Council recommends that this be divided into levels and that certified guides be provided. Some of the curiosity I think Kjersti Toppe was able to express when she said that perhaps the Storting should have had a whole thing about this in order to see it a little bit more in context. It's the government's lot to make strategies, while the Storting is at a more general level. I think that the Storting must see this completely and facilitate the intervention of the industry in our good health data. We have laid a good foundation for this today. For example: HUNT data can also mention concrete projects that have contributed to personalised drugs and new tests. One example that I think it might be worth mentioning is that out of several thousand blood samples from HUNT, a new test was developed to better predict future heart disease. This will result in new diagnostics launched in 2016 – one of many examples. Of course, when the Workers' Party is impatient, it's because we're technology optimists, and in addition, we're very concerned about public health. We believe we need to address tomorrow's challenges related to personalised medicine, not yesterday's.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1907	It's just to prepare us for this development that there's been different assignments in this area. Health regions have been given a mission that they have carried out, the Health Directorate is now nearing completion, and it is natural that, in a consultation session, there are different views on a draft strategy. The size will, if not for too long, be presented with a separate prioritisation report and also a major communication on biotechnology. It provides the Storting with a good opportunity to draw up the principles applicable to the priority discussion on this issue, but also the limits set in relation to biotechnology. I belong to those who believe that countries with less regulation and borders in this area are not necessarily forwards or aheads. I think that evolution may tell us over time that this is a country that feels that they have lost something significantly on the road because they have not been willing to set the same limits as we do, for example. has been in Norway and is also becoming an important discussion in the context of the notification of biotechnology. Not least in this area, where we see that technology gives us great opportunities to predict or get an idea of what's going to happen in the future with the individual. The type of information can initially be seen as positive, but the Biotechnology Council has also pointed out in its work on the biotechnology notification the major challenges and limitations of life that the type of information can lead to, especially when a person receives that type of information without having chosen to receive it. So here we are facing major challenges to solve in the future. As the representative of Stensland was in it, it is first of all that the basic idea of personalised medicine has been there all along. So it's also the way we see the results that not everyone agrees that this is the area where we see the greatest progress, and questions are asked about it. That is why it is also important to have an approach to this issue, where the whole process is progressing professionally, which we will have the opportunity to take, through the strategy that is now coming to an end, and on which we will serve as a basis to assess any action that may be taken in the follow-up to this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e1916	So the debate is on case No. Six over. Case No. 7–17 concerns the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2045	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2051	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2090	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for amendments to the alcohol law to open up the sale of beer with an alcohol content of up to 7 % by volume in grocery stores, subject to the fact that this does not challenge the special agreement on the monopoly of wine and the relationship with the EEA Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2119	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipality can take over Rjukan Hospital free of charge.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2144	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an amicable solution within the EEA legislation for the sale of Rjukan hospital from the Hospital Telemark to the Municipality of Tinn.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2175	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a regulatory requirement for physiotherapy and ergotherapy competence in nursing homes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national grant scheme to ensure health care posts contributing to increased activity’. The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2207	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan contains concrete measures to ensure increased physiotherapy and ergotherapy resources in hospitals.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2253	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2260	Case No. 7–17 concerns the second processing of legal acts and the legislative decisions from 56 to 66. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-18.ana.ud1677e2308	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
