ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e68	Since this is the first plenary session in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to welcome all the representatives back and hope that everyone has had a good and pleasant Christmas holiday. The President would also like the representatives, the members of the government and everyone else working in the Grand Duchy to have a really good new year and to wish good luck with the spring session. So at today's meeting. The representatives of Kåre Simensen, Peter Christian Frølich, Else-May Botten, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Liv Signe Navarsete, Eva Kristin Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been on the list, have again taken their seats. The previously temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Truls Wickholm, has again taken up the seat. The following called alternates have also taken their seats: For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For Sogn and Fjordane County: Bjørn Erik Hollevik For Troms County: Siv Elin Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e119	The representative, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e122	On behalf of Trond Giske, Marianne Aasen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Martin Henriksen, Torgeir Micaelsen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a stronger response to bullying in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will draw attention to the fact that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e143	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e150	Happy New Year – also to the President! Crisis, war and conflict have led millions of people to flee in our time. In 2015, more than one million crossed the Mediterranean Sea to Europe, and through the autumn thousands also arrived at our borders. It created an extraordinary situation. We received repeated illustrations that our receiver was not set up to meet such an influx at our borders. In particular, the situation at the border with Russia was precarious in the north. Late in August, the government decided that the number of asylum seekers would fall. Then it came instead of the record number. Exceptional measures were needed. The vast majority of people who have come to Norway are people who have, despite great dangers, been exhausted and rescued. The people who come to Norway will be treated in a dignified and proper way, in line with our international obligations and our humanitarian traditions, whether they are entitled to stay or not. Our receiver was not prepared. Many communities were given emergency locating facilities close to overnight. The will to help in Norway is great, but many also experienced uncertainty — uncertainty about our borders, uncertainty about future developments and uncertainty about what it means to get new neighbours and workmates, uncertainty about what it means to live together in greater diversity. The working party believes that the size of such situations should be a major factor in acting collectively. That doesn't mean we're going to smooth out political contradictions. The government will face a clear opposition, but if it is possible to gather on both action and follow-up, we will push aside self-marks and act in such a way that the Nordics in all parts of the country, municipalities, no matter who controls, and the refugees arriving, experience Norway's accumulation of principles and measures. The confrontation, the identification of shortcomings and the late reaction could provide several markers, but at the same time it had sent a signal of division and contradictions into Norwegian municipalities and communities at a time when there was a great need to act wisely and collectively. We've avoided that. The most important thing this fall was to lay a foundation that enables us to master a situation that is hardly over. By joining in broad settlements, we are preparing to meet a development that the UDI believes is very open: this will last. Hardly any national assembly in Europe today acts as united as we did when in November we made a compromise on enhanced control of immigration and in December the agreement on integration and support for municipalities was concluded. I mean, it's a force. There is reason to believe that some of the proposals that are being promoted today will bring together an even wider majority than the parties that negotiated the agreement. All the parties on the Stortinget can signal with this that we are engaged in succeeding in the great integration tasks ahead of us. The November and December similarities underline the important link between immigration control and the ability to succeed in good integration. If we do not have control, or if the population is in doubt that the authorities have control, the integration task becomes much more difficult. In Norway, this is a task for our authorities — the political authorities, the foreign agencies and the police. But it's also a task countries have to meet together. It is extremely serious for Europe for each country, in the absence of external border control, to solve the migration challenges separately. Often it will be felt that the challenges are being pushed over to another country, close or less closely. It can create ground for conflicts, more serious than Europe has seen in generations. Norway and the Nordic countries must contribute to preventing this. The government sent proposals for follow-up to the November agreement on border control at the time of the Rome Christmas. These mainly follow up on what is widely agreed in the asylum and refugee policy in Norway. The working party will now listen to the opinion of the various hearing bodies. The opinion of the hearing is that we should have the matter clarified. We will consider each proposal, but also the sum of proposals. We agree on restrictions that can ensure control at our borders, and that people who do not have a right to protection can quickly return. But we also need to consider whether some of the proposals are such that they affect our ability to succeed in integration. It is now a key task for Norway to succeed in integrating – ensuring that the new thousands who have arrived at reception, emergency reception or regular reception can get their affairs properly and as quickly as possible, and then have the opportunity to move on in life, to contribute with duties and rights in the Norwegian community. In the agreement, the parties underline the fundamental values on which integration must be based, values all in the Norwegian community must relate to: democracy, the rule of law, universal human rights, freedom of expression, equality and equivalency. These are values that oblige those who come to Norway to live their lives further here, and us who live in the country – efforts are required from all parties. The Labour Party sees these values as a social contract that binds its citizens. It is clearly highlighted in our 2011 integration platform. It's about people being able to feel secure in meeting this task. It's also a matter of showing respect for fellow humans. Integration is a two-way process. Those who come must respect the rules of the game that apply in Norway. The mass assaults on women in Cologne on New Year's Eve have shaken everyone. According to the German police, most suspected illegal immigrants or asylum seekers are. In Sweden, too, mass attacks on women have become known in retrospect. Both in Cologne and in Stockholm, the police should have tried to conceal that the attacks had taken place, in a misunderstanding of the fear that transparency could create reactions. The result is the exact opposite. The fortification has created anger and strengthened the contradictions. There's no room here to fold an inch. Women in Norway and the rest of Europe must live free lives without fear. Everything else is to count as defeat for our way of life. That is why abuses like those suffered by women in Stockholm and Cologne must be met with immediate firmness and not with remorse and complacency – as consistently as we should meet the offenders who put asylum recipients in a fire. This challenge must be solved by following the laws, by dialogue between people and by rejecting violence. The government is in the process of getting a big message on integration. That's good, and we're going to treat it with an open mind. However, there can be no excuse for waiting for this work: enhanced language training, clarification of the status of education, measures to ensure housing and follow-up to the invitation from LO and NHO to find good ways to work without jeopardising standards and propriety in the workplace. We have a clear expectation that the government will quickly follow up the proposals adopted today. They are detailed and provide a clear road map. We need action long before the integration message is presented. Municipalities have a special responsibility both to house reception and to ensure basic services for the arriving and then to lead towards the proper integration of those who are allowed to stay. The agreement clearly states that municipalities should be compensated for their expenses. We send a clear instruction to the government to sit down with the KS to identify the increased costs of health, school, kindergarten, child protection, etc. for the municipal sector. and ensure that the municipalities are compensated for their additional costs. We also expect the government to follow up the new settlement agreement to be concluded between the government and the KS, and to ensure that we settle in line with the need. Both comparisons last year underline that refugee housing for children is set up with a high level of child-care skills. Here, too, urgent action is needed. With the two similarities of the broad majority of the Grand Duchy, the government has a road map and a marshall. It also manages a great responsibility for this consensus to contribute to our success. A lot of people around the country are doing a big job of housing and integration. We see and hear about volunteers who make an invaluable effort. Employees of the foreign agencies, the police and several other agencies have done a job of which there is great respect. They should know that they are seen and valued by the Storting. Finally, all countries in Europe must deal with increased immigration and integration. This also applies to the Nordic countries. They are our neighbouring countries, and now we have different experiences in some areas, shared experiences with others. It is essential that there is good political contact between the Nordic countries at this time, in order to prevent national measures from creating tensions and conflicts. Because we have a lot to fence around in the North, for example. passport-free movement and a common labour market as a whole since the 1950s. It must not be put into play when we each meet people on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e186	It is a strength of Norwegian policy that we can achieve broad cooperation solutions in matters of great national importance, and it is really such a matter that we are dealing with today. The influx of asylum seekers in the autumn of 2015 struck all records, and a total of 30 000 asylum seekers arrived in Norway last year. This is more than three times as many as you assumed to be coming. Such a situation meant that the entire reception system was in crisis. That is why it was absolutely crucial when a broad majority of the Stortinget agreed in November on a number of sanctions in the field of asylum policy. At the same time, through that agreement, six out of eight large parties with 161 out of 169 representatives, we agreed to come up with several proposals for an improved integration policy. So today, we are dealing with 64 proposals that the parties have agreed on and that will help those who come here and stay in Norway to integrate and succeed in the Norwegian society. I have also registered that SV will promote a few own suggestions, but otherwise join much of what is here, and I think that is good. It shows that there is now a broad political consensus on this. This is important, but it is also difficult. A good integration policy requires a strict asylum policy. A good integration policy requires a good balance between duties and rights, so that those who stay here are both given their own responsibilities and assistance to what integrates. A good integration policy is also a prerequisite for success in Norway as a society, and the people who have taken refuge and ended up in Norway actually end up as workers who pay taxes and contribute to the creation of value added in Norway. The agreement between the parties addresses integration proposals in many different areas. During the reception phase, work on clarification and application procedures shall be intensified in order to provide feedback as soon as possible as to whether or not they are allowed to stay. The situation of municipalities is, of course, important. The establishment of emergency reception facilities is taking place in the municipalities, and those who live in reception waiting for an answer to their applications need to be well equipped to handle service needs. It is important that the pressure we are experiencing today in the reception structure is not allowed to reproduce and become a crisis for the local government sector. The fact that the immigrant learns Norwegian is most important. Without a language, a short and well-incorporated one is not integrated. Language is not only the prerequisite for understanding Norwegian society, but of course it is also the prerequisite for being able to associate with others in society. In its New Year's speech, the Prime Minister launched the term «working day integration». It is not just the state and the municipality that are to create integration. As authorities, we can organise and create good services, but it is in the daily meeting points that good integration is being created. It is through the everyday activity of an immigrant family to be accepted in a community, to take responsibility for their own lives and to become active members of society in Norway. The choices we make in everyday life affect how well integration becomes. As the Prime Minister said, do you have an extra seat in the car so that the refugee children can also join football training? Do you have any old children's books that you can pass on to the refugee family that just came to the village? Accepting a family of immigrants in their community requires society as a whole – to the state, to the municipality, to volunteer and to the inhabitants – but primarily to the immigrants themselves. It is she and he who are going to learn the language, it is they who are going to take the necessary training or get a job and a income it is possible to live on, and take care of themselves and theirs. Early work organisation is essential to ensure a high level of employment among refugees. The goal for us and everyone who comes must be to get out of work as quickly as possible. In the agreement between the parties, therefore, measures contributing to employment have been important. Here, too, it is good when LO and NHO have already made several proposals, and it is important that the government has a good dialogue with the parties in order to achieve this. So we have proposed more than sixty different proposals that are on this table today, and it is very good that it is such a wide range of proposals. It shows that the parties are fully involved in the integration policy. As I started with, what is now happening is in good Norwegian tradition. When there are major national challenges to be solved, the batches meet across the blocks. Most of the representatives support the proposals we are dealing with here. This means that the Stortinget has a clear expectation that the government will give priority to following up these proposals, while the government will also see that the policy it is now pursuing is broadly anchored. In conclusion, I would like to thank the parties involved in the proposal for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e212	The time we have behind us has shown that we have faced major challenges in this sector related to the wave of migration we have seen rinsing across Europe. We've seen a lot of sad fates. Of course, in the wake of this, there are also major challenges to debate the issue of integration. For the Progress Party, it has been absolutely essential in the autumn and in winter that if we were to move on and be able to get on with integration tasks, we first had to solve the issue of migration and the large number that came. It made it necessary, in the autumn and winter, to use very large resources in the number that came, relating to registration, follow-up, health care, finding room to live, the reception structure and a number of other measures. This isn't solved in full. We still have big challenges, but what's fine with the deal that's now taking place is also that you put a lot of premises on the bottom that we're going to work on. It is said through this agreement that there is a clear connection between the number that comes, and the possibility of whether we succeed in integration policy, because we need to have social structures at the bottom in order to address this task. Therefore, this is a very important principle. Another important principle is that of course it is those who come here, who are seeking a safe port, and who are going to get a safe port, which is to be integrated on the basis of our premises – not the Norwegian society that is going to change on the premises of others. That is why what is in the agreement is important: it is precisely based on fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law, universal human rights, freedom of expression, equality and equality. That is why I think it was very good that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre referred to both what happened in the New Year's Week in Cologne and what has emerged in Sweden afterwards. There is no one who is worthy of trying to put a lid on a debate. No one deserves to be informed about the challenges facing society. There is a failed or totally wrong way to tackle integration. We can't accept the abuses that happened to these women, because this is part of our fundamental values. We can never go to chords with them. I am pleased that the integration agreement that has now been put in place is a continuation of all the measures that we adopted, linked to the tightening-up bit. It hangs carefully in hops. As regards asylum reception and the arrival phase, it is important for integration to take place, for us to be able to identify as quickly as possible the opportunities available to those actually staying in terms of integration. What kind of education do you have? Can you pass your education? This is how those who are allowed to stay can get to work quickly. It's important that we take care of the children. It is not the children who have to pay the price for a long stay in a reception because a large number of people have arrived. It is also important for municipalities to be able to take this job, but then the municipalities themselves must be allowed to see what opportunities they actually have to take on this task. That's why it's important not to use coercion. You have to make sure that each municipality has its own opportunities: do we have enough health professionals? Do we have sufficient skills to help people who may have suffered major traumas? Do we have the opportunity to create this nursery and provide free core time? It says that ‘can offer free core time’ in the proposal. I believe it is an important measure and an important signal to send that even those who live in reception should be able to do a larger part of the job at the reception. There may be clean-up, cooking and a number of other types of measures that can actually contribute to individual activation. The worst thing that happens is that you don't act and are therefore not motivated to get out and get integrated into society. It is a separate chapter in this agreement that deals with the situation of municipalities. It is important to now get together with KS and look at, get registered and find out the different points related to costs and what to do in order to achieve the integration to take place. You have to make sure you agree on what is the actual image, because there are huge variations here. Some municipalities are very good at integrating and almost making money only on what is involved in integration grants and today's system, while other municipalities, which may not be as good, have a much lower rate of success than other municipalities. Then we have to learn from each other. We need to ensure that we have a transfer of competences between the municipalities on how we can do this, because there is no one at all – neither the Norwegian society nor the refugees themselves, those who have come here and been given a stay – who are served not to get into work and into a municipality. But then we have to make sure that we do not make special arrangements for this group versus our own inhabitants, because one of the things the party fears is that if we make for specific special arrangements for one group versus others who live in that country, it will in itself create conflict. We must avoid these conflicts at all costs. Unfortunately, we see trends in a number of other countries that have failed to integrate them. I don't think you should go beyond at least some city councils and municipalities in our neighboring country until you see that the large number has contributed to the failure of integration. Here I have great faith in our new Council of State and the work to be done, because it is precisely about the cooperation between state, municipality and volunteering. Voluntary teams and organisations have to play an essential role in this work, and I want from this pulpit to give a great deal of credit to much of what is already done out there by voluntary teams and organisations. It's exactly the culture that Norwegian society has in this field, which shows us that we can succeed if we really stand on. That's why it was also very happy to see that one of those who got the prize – the firessel prize – during the sports gallery this weekend, was a person who works in the Groruddalen – I think it was there – and who stands on and gets his whole community to do this. There's integration set in the high-seat. That you get to these things, I think is very positive. We have great challenges, but of course we also have opportunities. Integration is also about attitudes, and attitudes are based on values that we have had. It goes on equality, freedom of expression, culture and equivalency. We can't accept having special religious arrangements. Therefore, action is also important precisely to assess and look at what is involved in financing some things that can counteract integration. Immigrants are to be integrated into Norway. This is not a two-way process. In fact, those who come here should be integrated into Norwegian society – not the opposite. Integration is only possible if we limit the number of people entering Norway. That is why, as I said at the outset, we must first have control of the number of people coming, before we can manage to take the necessary measures. Now it starts work, and it's going to be a long-term and laborious work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e246	Let me first join Nesvik's praise of this year's fire. That is quite right, as the representative Nesvik suggested: he is from Oslo County – from Furuset. We congratulate ourselves on the work he is doing, from a collective oslobenk as well, I am sure of that. The extraordinary refugee situation in Europe requires the political environment to demonstrate the ability to design both new measures and new policy solutions that face a new reality. That is why, on the part of the Christian People's Party, it has also been important to contribute to the cross-political work that has given this reconciliation that we are debating and adopting today. It is absolutely necessary to have control of our borders and who enters the country. It is also important that those who are now in need of protection receive it and that those who do not have it are sent out quickly. It is necessary to preserve the institution of asylum. Responsibility will sometimes require new political action. At the same time, it is precisely in the face of major challenges, which often come quickly, that it is most important to maintain some fundamental values, the values that build and maintain a good and secure society: democracy, freedom of expression, the right to exercise their faith and the right to exchange faith, the rule of law and human rights, equality and equality. We in this room have in a new constitutional paragraph, § 2, recently established what Norway is building on. That's what it says. «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’.» It is against this background that we in the Christian People's Party are facing the challenges we now see. It is therefore important that we do not weaken the legal certainty of the absolutely necessary efforts we now have to simplify and streamline the processing of asylum applications. This may include, inter alia: means that the real possibilities for legal assistance for asylum seekers cannot be completely curtailed. Not least this is the case where children are involved. Furthermore, all the measures we have supported are underpinned by Norway's commitments under international conventions and agreements. We assume that the government assures itself of the same thing. I mentioned the kids, and there's been talk about how we integrate the best. I think most of the representatives who have been out to listen to people in their respective municipalities and counties have got a pretty clear feedback on how important it is to quickly and effectively integrate just children. Then we don't miss an important chapter in this agreement, which relates to the relationship with the municipalities and the economy of the municipalities. I would like specifically to challenge the government – the Council of State must have the floor later in the debate – at the level given to the municipalities for lone minor asylum seekers. Our clear belief is that the financial contribution we currently have is actually preventing children from coming out to municipalities and thus getting normal growth and being well integrated. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Council of State, Listhaug, on new tasks. It's a big and important task. Governments have already been energetic in their efforts — not least in promoting and speaking for mitigation measures. I can also say that we in the Christian People's Party expect the Council of State to also take on the work of strengthening residence and integration with the same zeal. In reality, this agreement means that the government has got a quite comprehensive toolbox to promote good integration into Norwegian society, ranging from strengthening residence and language training to speeding up people’s work and education. It could then be interesting to hear from the Council of State what action she believes is most important to be taken quickly to promote integration, independent of an integration message coming, because something should be done immediately. We've noticed how volunteering is ready to set up -- national colleges, working life and the individual -- in its community. It is important to support the good work that is now being done in many municipalities in the country. I agree with Mr Nesvik that this is a key to successful integration, both in the short and longer term. We want to see results in terms of the government's work on monitoring and clarifying the extra costs of municipalities for school, kindergarten, child protection and health, and I assume that there will be close cooperation with the KS. If we're to succeed, we need efforts from all sides. Voluntary action must be taken more than at present. The social partners must be involved, and the LO and NHO have already given positive signals. The Prime Minister was in his New Year's address about how each of us behaved to promote integration. I can say that I live in a part of this city where there is a big element of people with a different skin color, a different cultural background. I have observed, and participated in, how the work is done in school and in leisure activities – and how it is not done. It's quite clear that there are challenges, but there are also a lot of good examples. Participation is usually a key – language and willingness to participate in the community – and this should be emphasised from day one to those who come and are expected to live in that country. Since others have been in the tragic events that women have been exposed to in both Germany and Sweden, I fully support the fact that there is no point in sweeping them under the carpet. It just helps you get a boomerang, and you get a debate that's powered by contradictions because you haven't dared to be honest with what's actually happened. We also have to recognise that there is a reason to make sure that we are clear about what the Norwegian values are, and what we are basing on when it comes to gender relationships in this country, not least. How well we succeed is related to how inclusive we are to define our ‘we’ to be. Then the tone of the integration debate doesn't matter. I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister for both clarity and clarity in his reference to this field in the New Year's Year - clarity of duties, clarity of expectations, clarity of rights, but also expectations of the majority population, in order to achieve good integration and a desire for it to take place in an open climate of debate where there is no censorship. I have also noticed the hearing note that the Ministry of Justice sent out at Christmas. At the end, it says: ‘We promote these consultation proposals in order to limit the arrival of persons without a right to protection.’ But the opposite – and it is important for the Christian People's Party – is that those who have the right to protection should get it. Finally, I have noted that the new Council of State in this field has Ronald Reagan as a political role model. Let this be a positive greeting to the Council of State from us – what Ronald Reagan said in his closing speech as President in 1989: No matter what the story may say about me: When I'm gone, I hope it will have registered that I appealed to the people's foremost hope, not their worst fear – to their trust, not their doubt. We want the government to be happy to follow up an important decision that we will take later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e293	There is war and unrest in Europe's neighbourhoods. It has been for a long time, and this has led many people to escape. Many of them have sought refuge in European countries. Maybe we should have discovered it. Maybe we should have understood that a long time ago. But instead, we must all recognise that during the autumn the influx of refugees from Europe's neighbourhoods has become a challenge, which we have seen as extraordinary. I think the situation has raised questions. It's created uncertainty. It has also created challenges. The centre party called early for wide-ranging conciliation between political Norway – wide-ranging agreements on both immigration and integration policies. This has also been done by political Norway during the autumn. There are two broad agreements, where most of the parties in this room have agreed on a number of measures in the field of immigration regulation, but also integration. It's important. Sometimes, when you hear the rhetoric in this debate, you might not believe it, but it is enough today that there is hardly any other country in Europe where the political parties are as united about immigration and integration policy as what we are doing in Norway – when we deal with both the conciliation we dealt with last autumn, and the reconciliation we are going to deal with and adopt here today. Political Norway is largely united in an asylum policy that must be consistent and fair. That's why some tightening was also adopted. Therefore, it is also necessary to make a clear distinction between those who are entitled to protection and those who do not. It is therefore also necessary to clarify the question of the need for faster returns. That is why, as we are doing today, a number of points need to be addressed in order to better integrate those who are going to stay in Norway, because there are many who are going to stay in Norway and they need to be quickly and well integrated into Norwegian society. It is important and positive that the Storting today can adopt the agreement that we agreed on before Christmas. There are more than 60 points, which deal with measures on a very broad basis. There are questions of action during the more acute arrival phase and of refugees. There are actions in the areas of health, training, education and work. I want to underline one thing: this reconciliation between the parties is not a menu from which the government can pick from. There is no menu where the government can choose any action they find to follow up. This is a settlement where all points oblige all parties – including the government in the follow-up. Government action will also be needed before the integration message is presented, because the reception system is as stressed as it already is. It is also the case that reception and settlement will be a long-term obligation for Norwegian society – a commitment for this government, but probably also for future governments. For this reason, it is important that there is a job that is common to political Norway — where we choose to agree on a large part of the policy, and that we choose to start the work. The first phase after arrival is often critical, both for the refugees arriving and for the municipalities hosting large asylum facilities. Treating matters quickly after arrival provides good information on how our practice is in the field of immigration and integration, and how it can affect the individual refugee coming here is important. It is also important that refugees get a quick overview of what Norwegian society expects of them in terms of integration. The municipalities that have large asylum recipients experience major challenges in these days. It is important that these municipalities are notified in good time, as early as possible, and that the State sees its responsibility to ensure good coordination of what is to be done with these municipalities. They are put in a situation where they have large commitments from day one, in terms of both health care and school. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there are some main points in this agreement that will probably be important to succeed in the future. I want to draw out three of them in addition to a crucial point. The first is the need for a comprehensive, more efficient and targeted reception system. We have to get better at starting training and activity with the same people staying in Norway. Monitoring knowledge and faster recognition of education and skills are examples of things that we need to be much better at doing quickly. The same applies to labour-oriented measures and, to a certain extent, to languages, all of which are agreed upon. Another area that will be crucial for integration is the actual settlement work. The timely implementation of better arrangements for the construction and purchase of dwellings will be important. The bank's loan framework is going to be crucial. The more active use of the private rental market to ensure adequate housing for refugees will be important. A third point I would like to highlight is that we need to use more force on a proper arrangement for children on the run. Individual agencies need to cooperate better on the follow-up of young people, and more child-care skills are needed to care for the young people who come here. Different types of housing, SOS children’s cities, foster home schemes and e.g. the use of public high schools is mentioned in the agreement as possible measures for the care of children on a refugee basis. But I think we should recognize that the most important thing to succeed in the future integration is to recognise that it is in the municipalities the practical work is going to be done. This is where the Prime Minister’s expression of ‘working day integration’ will take place. The municipalities of Norway have no own income to solve this problem. For this reason, it is also the case that it is necessary for the State to draw up and take account of the bill for the settlement and integration of refugees and asylum seekers. In addition, the Central Party also believes it is right that residence in the municipalities should continue to be based on volunteering and contract-based housing, and not on coercion. We are pleased that the conciliation also reflects that view. But neither of us is going to be served by the municipal work on refugees being set up against the welfare services for which the municipalities are otherwise responsible. Therefore, the resources of the municipalities need to be significantly increased. This applies both to the general framework of the local government sector and to the specific grants, such as the integration grant, the host municipality grant and the grant to lone minor children. So it's probably like today that some municipalities succeed better than others. There are different municipalities and different groups of refugees. But the central party's point is that it's not the municipalities that are going to be left with the bill, based on the money they don't have. It's the state that has to take the bill for this task, sail if that bill is going to be different for different groups of refugees and different municipalities. Therefore, the Central Party is very concerned that the government should sit down with the KS and calculate the actual costs we have to expect, and that this work should take place as soon as possible. The centre party will also stress what is in the agreement, namely that it is an objective that the pressure we are experiencing today in the reception structure should not be allowed to reproduce and become a crisis in the municipal sector. This presupposes that municipalities are compensated for the costs of receiving and integrating refugees and asylum seekers. It's probably the most important sentence in the entire equation. A crisis in the municipal sector will put the whole process of integrating refugees and asylum-seekers at risk, and then we are going to be seriously skeptical. That is why I would like to congratulate the Council of State today and say that, in the process of integration, she should be the prime weapon of the municipalities within the government. As I said at the outset, I think it is a strength that political Norway stands as united as one does in this matter. The centre party will look at what the government has sent to consult proposals, now. We will listen to what emerges during the hearing. We will make an assessment of what the government is presenting to the Storing of these proposals. We are clear that a consistent and fair asylum policy is a necessary prerequisite – also for good integration. Good integration is a subject worthy of debate, but also an open mind and broad follow-up. The 64 proposals that are on the table today are an invitation and a start to it. That is why the Centre Party is very pleased with what we are about to adopt today. We look forward to the follow-up, and we believe, as I said, that the role of municipalities is going to be crucial in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e331	Let me first say on behalf of the Left that we are very pleased that we have a broad settlement behind a common promise for good integration. Integration is a long-term task. Therefore, broad support for long-term grips is important. Furthermore, it is important to get work started. Therefore, it is important that we have the agreement in place before Christmas, and that Stortinget deals with the matter already today. Although the challenges we face in Norway cannot be compared to the challenges they face in Sweden, Germany and not least in southern Europe, we have a receiver that has been tested this autumn. We need to address the challenges we face, while at the same time helping to solve the pan-European and international challenges. First of all, it must be stressed that we are already well-informed. Last year, more refugees were resettled by municipalities than ever before, and Norway is definitely among the best countries in the world on integration. A new situation also requires new solutions. I am pleased that there is more room for innovation in integration policy than in the past. This is also reflected in the proposals we are considering today. The left would like to see us come further in some areas, but we are very happy that we have come as far as we have. For the Left, it is essential that we start the integration from day one. Four out of five people who now live in reception will be accommodated. Therefore, there is no need to wait for the asylum application to be dealt with until we start integrating it. With the processing times we can now expect, it will be directly destructive if you don't get started, but let people sit passively in reception over time. The integration of the person waiting for an answer will, of course, be different from that of the person who has been given a stay and is in the process of being settled. However, it is important to ensure integration throughout the operation of receptions through the provision of activation and different language training. Therefore, we are pleased to see how to operate the receptions and to make it easier for residents to participate in the operation and activities themselves. Here we can learn from the Swedish model reception at Restad farm in Vänersborg. The reception is the largest in Sweden with over 1,300 inhabitants and is known for its high quality at low prices. Here the residents themselves take responsibility for cooking. There is a separate kitchen built into all housing units and a grocery store in the area. The scheme results in better food, more activity, and more dignity for the inhabitants. In addition, you save about 40 million. kr per year for self-catering households in relation to catering. Teachers get unpaid work practices at local schools in Vänersborg, doctors at hospitals, and now the hotel opens up just by offering practical places in other areas. External professionals assist with career guidance and it is possible to continue training through online education while living at the reception. Good integration policy is also about not allocating as much money as possible for as many purposes as possible, but focusing on action that works. The left has always been strongly committed to children. We therefore welcome a broad consensus that children coming to the country alone are a vulnerable group that needs special follow-up. The increase in the number of lone children coming to Norway, we saw before and through the summer last year. It was in connection with the increase in the number of lone children we first received concerns about the conditions of the PU Registry on Tøen. Although the situation has improved since early in the fall, we have also received concerns later on about the reception situation for children coming alone. We are therefore pleased that the government will now ensure better cooperation and responsibilities between different bodies from the child arrive, in order to ensure safe care and the necessary assistance. In addition to the increase in numbers, we have recently seen that the children who are coming are younger than before. According to the UDI, one out of five children who came last year, under 15, were against one out of ten earlier. Among these, there is a child down to the age of 10–11. It's obvious that these people need close follow-up and reinforced housing. As far as age is concerned, news coverage has recently seen the need to investigate new and more accurate methods of age testing where there has been doubt about the age of the child. It is worrying when several medical experts warn of how age testing is taking place today, and the Medical Association does not consider it appropriate for doctors to participate in it. Priority must therefore be given to identifying new and more accurate methods of age testing. The left has raised the issue of new ideas about the settlement of children who come alone. We are pleased that actors such as SOS children’s cities want to establish children’s cities in Norway, as they have good experience from other European countries. It is important that we get a wide range of housing services with a high level of child-reliance skills in place, and that in the choice of offers we take on the basis of individual resources and needs. That's now the majority for here in the hall. Several young people are already accommodated in high schools, and many families have expressed an interest in being foster homes for children who have come here alone. Work on recruiting multiple foster families must continue. We therefore believe it is a good and concrete proposal to now facilitate the establishment of support apparatus/guidance services for those who want to be foster parents of these young people. We are also pleased that there is a broad consensus that issues where children disappear from receptions are prioritised in line with other disappearances. Several dozen children disappeared from reception last year, including children under the age of 15. We are also pleased that priority should be given to investigating cases and that preventive action should be taken to avoid children entering criminal settings or being exposed to trafficking in human beings. Early efforts are also relevant in this area. If we are to succeed in integrating, we must start as early as possible. Not least, we need to improve the integration of the youngest children. Children of asylum seekers are currently entitled to school places, but the younger children do not have the same entitlement to kindergarten places. Recipients provide different facilities for activities for children under school age. However, some municipalities have seen the value of starting integration early by providing nursery facilities. The left, through the strengthening of the host municipality grant, has contributed to the possibility for older children to go to kindergarten. We have also had an impact through the budget agreement on free core time in kindergartens for low-income families. We have now been given an assurance that the municipalities will be able to offer free core time in kindergarten to children of families who have been accommodated. Furthermore, in the context of the integration message, the government shall submit proposals to enable children of families with a high probability of staying to be offered free of charge at kindergarten, including the assessment of the offer of two- and three-year-olds. It is an important breakthrough for the Left and a significant contribution to integration. For children under school age, kindergarten is the most important integration arena. Early participation in kindergarten offers opportunities for language development and cultural understanding and greater opportunities for success at school. An additional effect is that it can help to strengthen the integration of parents. When some have agreed to cut cash benefits such as cash support, the Left has been positive to it as long as you protect the children and instead of providing cash support for children's gardening. Nothing is more inclusive for children and parents than just kindergarten. Similarly, we support language testing of children in health centres and follow-up with interventions. For children of kindergarten age, the measure is just in place in a nursery with Norwegian-speaking children. We've been talking about school every year as the most important arena for integration, but for children under school age, kindergarten is definitely the most important arena. Increases in the number of asylum seekers will require a higher rate of residence work in municipalities. As mentioned above, the municipalities live more than ever, but it is still important that we now settle even more. It is essential for the integration of the time spent in reception to be kept as short as possible and for housing to be offered as soon as possible. Fortunately, many municipalities wanting to contribute to the ongoing work have opened up to receive more than before. We need municipalities that are willing to settle when well integrated. Dwelling on a voluntary basis provides greater motivation to get the important integration work going. However, we must also look at whether the state funding in this area is good enough. I am therefore pleased that the government, in cooperation with the KS, will provide an overview of the increased costs of the municipal sector related to health, school, kindergarten, child protection, etc., and come back to Stortinget with it appropriately during the spring of 2016. The summary must also include the assessment of the integration grant and the host municipality grant. You also have to look at the Husbank's frame. It is also important to provide a sound financial framework in which municipalities are compensated for their additional costs. However, with new challenges, municipalities are forced to rethink the settlement work and may need to learn from the Bergen system of self-settlement within the city’s borders. It is necessary to provide for more people themselves to find housing, which is assessed and approved by the municipality. Furthermore, more attention must be paid than in the past to the competence of refugees in housing. Competence monitoring is also envisaged. Such screening will also be used in the settlement. Municipalities demand different forms of labour, and it will be easier to live and integrate people with the competences of municipalities need. Furthermore, there is a need to review a distribution key used in requests to municipalities for housing. The request to accept refugees must be based on an appropriate distribution between municipalities. If you are to succeed, all municipalities must be able to contribute – even more than what has been done in the past. We must have ambitions that everyone who comes to Norway will learn Norwegian and get to work. I experience a broad consensus on that. However, the willingness to facilitate it is not always as strong. Instead, we have legislation that actually prevents asylum seekers from coming to work. The left would like us to do something about it. We are very pleased that we have reached a broad agreement on: prior organisation for work through a mapping of the competences of the receptions offered for career guidance by the granted residence permit dissemination of refugees with the required competence for job vacancies emphasising competence and opportunities for jobs in residence work different courses for language training, working practices, training offers and apprenticeships requirements for cooperation between the employer, employee and authorities in order to provide relevant language training, vocational training or other training reviews of the reduction of distinctive labour skills requirements; The left is also well pleased that we now see that the LO and the NHO are also involved in concreteising the proposed measures we are now putting forward. Finally, as many people have been involved in the debate, I would like to say that the events that have taken place in Cologne, and not least in Sweden, are both tragic and reprehensible. It's no good that this gets fat under the carpet. That's why we in Stortinget look forward to the integration message coming in ours. We're impatient and waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e413	Many millions of refugees are in crisis. They escape from IS, from Assad, from Boko Haram, from total chaos and come to a Europe that also meets them with much chaos, some with barbed wire, many with discharge and a cold shoulder. Now, political effort and leadership and control are required, and we are required to keep our heads cold and have our perspectives in order. The task of politicians is to spread hope and find concrete solutions, not to divide and disgust. SV will integrate the refugees who will be, quickly and not isolate them. There are people that we have to view as resources, because they are resources. They are to be settled in the community, learn Norwegian, get to work, send their kids to kindergarten, and then we have to give them the security and ability to meet the requirements, not add the list so that most people are convicted of failure. If a diverse society is to succeed, people with different backgrounds must learn to live together. Good integration policies depend on policies in many areas, but they also depend on our keeping our values high. We do not compromise on values that should apply to everyone in this society: work, participation, freedom of expression, legal certainty, equality and respect for democracy. I would like to join in what the others have said about the reactions to what has happened in Cologne and Stockholm, but also in the case of the burning down of asylum recipients. It's probably the case that this is a widespread problem, too, that women and girls are being harassed, and it's probably also sad enough that some cultures are more patriarchal, old-fashioned, and women repressive than others. We have to dry out talking about it, but we must not pretend that these are acts that just immigrants are doing. In this way, it is only possible to look up recent research in Norway and see that this is a major and widespread and devastating problem for many girls and women in Norway as well. The SV will today vote in favour of the proposal for a representative, except for two points, and I will explain that. It's V, where we've taken out only one sentence of the contract text, and that's where it says that the contract-based model is maintained for settlement. This is because SV has a much better proposal to deal with in Stortinget, about a new settlement scheme. That arrangement is such that there is rapid processing, rapid settlement, the state pays, and the municipalities settle. I believe that the majority now has to answer the question: how many billions can we afford to spend on expensive and poor receptions, when municipalities could make much better use of the money and get integration going before people get almost out of work sitting on the wall – staring at the wall and waiting and waiting? These are mostly adult people who can contribute. The system proposed by the majority is better than the one we have today, but it's not good enough. Now it has to be new, and we have to move quickly. It is also said by the government in its own documents that it is the most important thing for integration. Then we have to do the most important thing for integration. The second point is VI, which is about tightening up family reunification. This proposal was even adopted with the wording completely equal to it before Christmas, so why the majority should adopt this twice, I don't know, but SV is against it now, as we were before Christmas. In the tightening proposal before Christmas, SV agreed on all the points that would prevent those who do not need protection from coming, and also on the issue of increased border control. There were two types of suggestion SV was against. It was those who are inhibiting integration to do it bad for those who actually get protection, for example. In view of family reunification, and it was those who are about cutting people off from seeking asylum in Norway at all, who were made with it – in our opinion – the irresponsible legislative change that was passed before Christmas, and who now human rights experts are giving SV the right to have cut off people from seeking asylum, and which means that we cannot guarantee that they will not be sent back to inhuman treatment. So we're against the suggestions that come with regard to tightening up family reunification. The representative Gahr Støre said in his post that one should be careful with suggestions that could affect our ability to succeed, and that is precisely the reason why SV is against. Husbands and children in exile must be reunited. Something else is pointless and inhuman and harms integration. These are ordinary people, with normal lives and normal emotions. No one sitting here can imagine that after they have experienced war, total insecurity, seen that people they may know have been killed, had their house destroyed, their city destroyed, that they should work best if they are to sit and wait for their family for years, and perhaps not even get them here, because now you're even going to raise income requirements. SV is absolutely convinced that if you have the family together in security, you are best able to gather your head, turn the whole mindset, learn Norwegian, integrate into this society. Then a few must be allowed to be with those who are closest. It's a human right to be with the family, and there's a better integration and better health of family being together. Making such demands may lead to more people taking their family with them when they flee, as the UN leader has also warned. It can't be the majority's view that more people will have to take their children on a dangerous flight if they can hide them somewhere in security for a while until those seas arrive at a place where there can be a future. I have looked at the government's proposals that relate to this. Now we know what they're doing. I have to say that I think the majority is paying very well for the Advancement Party in the government to have shown a lack of power and willingness to see what had to happen, helped to cause chaos, and so in this chaos you are being pressured into irresponsible law-making and tightening that will affect those who are going to be. It's SV against, and it's a strategy that very many countries are applying, unfortunately. There are several proposals that SV has made. We have promoted our own proposals, more than 50, which are under consideration – for a thorough examination in the Committee, as it should be. I'll mention some of them. SV believes that the government needs to amend the legislation so that basic qualification can be included in the introduction programme. It's very important that we use the time well in the introduction program. SV also has a different proposal, which combines the introduction programme and language training with qualified vocational training, as has now been tried in the Gloppen, in Trondheim and at Røros. It works. Then you save a lot of time, and you get qualified people for professions that we also benefit from. I hear ministers otherwise talk about the fact that it's kind of skilled workers we need, and then we'll get it started. It is incredibly important that children go to kindergarten, including those who are waiting in reception. It's maybe the best integration we can have, so you have to put in place such a system. The introduction system also needs to be streamlined and stimulates entrepreneurship among refugees and immigrants. They can create a lot of businesses. Several people have had to deal with the situation of the lone minors. There is SV busy. It can be very bad for these kids, and that's why SV will bring up a proposal that we call 'a bad thing in life everybody has'. I'm sure everyone's heard Odd Nordstoga sing about it. Children seeking asylum in Norway need more secure adults. The scheme cannot fill all of these arrangements, and not all have foster parents, but a ‘bean’ in life, a ‘federal father’, could probably have more. They're desperate and alone. We know that someone is better at integrating than others, and it's criminal and bad environments that catch up with these kids. If they're not caught by good environments, they're caught by bad ones. I want to go back a little bit to the scary and bad events in Cologne, which unfortunately happens in many places. It's not going to go under the chair that many of these young people come from societies where the gender roles are different. They may need an adult ‘prevalence’ to guide them into a good human role in Norway, so that they can function well and understand how to treat them in an equal way in this society. That proposal gives Stortinget the opportunity to vote on when we examine SV's proposals later. I'm addressing the two suggestions that I've referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e443	Then the proposals were addressed by the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e447	That the media call something a crisis doesn't mean that the Storting has to get torn up on the same gall. In the fall, we had an acute change in the number of refugees who were on the border with Norway, who demanded rapid action and political talks. Crisis, on the other hand, has never been in Norway. The crisis is in the Middle East, in Syria, at sea between Africa and Europe and on the roads in Europe. Now there is famine in Syrian cities, and in addition to those who have applied for protection abroad, over five million internally displaced persons in Syria now need help. Many Norwegian-Curtainers, Norwegian Arabs and others have relatives and friends in these areas. Norway has one crisis, and it is that the majority of population has been so in a hurry to show their capacity to act that it violates the quality and basic principles of political treatment. The vast majority of the measures presented in the agreement are good and necessary in themselves, but many of them – with respect to reporting – are also pure of course. Many of the measures go far beyond the level of detail that the Storting should address, and the list of measures we are adopting today is so long with such vague wording that it is largely up to the government to specify what these proposals are to mean. So we have a long list of proposals that are now being consulted and are going back to Stortinget afterwards. Regular discussion in the Trade Union Committee would have helped Stortingen to give priority to action and to improve poor and unnecessary wording, and it would have given us time to debate and get the most controversial points involved. In any case, most of the points could have been implemented, and many have already begun. Governments do not have to wait for the Storting to ‘ensure effective UDI proceedings’, ‘call for new forms of cooperation between UDI and PU’ or ensure that asylum seekers are informed about rights and obligations or about the labour market. She does not need decisions in the United Kingdom to strengthen the correction of work and to focus on the qualification of the labour force and on early language interventions, to explore methods of age testing – which the police, for the rest, are already working on a long time ago – or to ensure that receptions are more closely involved in the community. These are just a few examples of the fact that most of what is adopted today in the Storing will be adopted unanimously and politically uncontroversial, even though it is good in itself. It is likely that the discussion will be considerably tougher on the budget lines to be devoted to these measures. The desire to belong, to take responsibility for our community, is fundamental to integration policy. It requires that we offer communities, and that we require those who come to the country to take responsibility, but that we do not isolate people or groups in society. Therefore, integration is not something that can be decided upon in the Storting, even if the individual measures are good. The right-wing rapporteur in Moss, Tage Pettersen, expressed it well in his local way recently: if we're to succeed in more than just settling people, he said, it's a job we all have to participate in. His appeal to the mossies for the new year was not to leave the integration to the schoolwork or to the state, but to invite new residents into leisure activities, to ask the new classmates if they want to join the football team, to treat people with respect and to make demands on them, as you do to everyone else. This is the most important thing, and it of course helps that a broad number of large numbers encourage it. In his new year's year, the Prime Minister was also in the same situation. She asked companies to hire refugees, and an important point here, in addition to the measures proposed in today's conciliation, is to look at whether the means for business to employ refugees are good enough. We need to look at whether payroll schemes and mentoring schemes are enough to make business dry to take risks if they employ qualified people who may not be used to Norwegian working culture, or who are not able to speak in particular. We should look more closely at whether government and municipal authorities themselves are good enough to employ minorities and make plans for diversity in the workforce. Our experience in the Green Party is that there is considerable room for improvement in the municipalities. The successful municipalities are municipalities that have created introductory programmes that are well adapted and have a good follow-up over time. There are municipalities where sports teams and other associations are active in recruiting and including refugees and employees in kindergartens, schools and other municipal services themselves, taking time to talk to people, providing extra information. There are municipalities that provide good guidance on housing, employment, economics and family, such as them. is known for the Rælingen municipality. It's the same principle as in other schools, so far, but it's especially important in adult education, where the starting point for students is very varied. The Greens believe that the measures we are discussing today on housing could be much more forward-looking, for example. by asking the government at least to assess the consistency – and possible design – of an assigned housing model, so that municipalities contribute to the settlement and integration in line with other municipal tasks. In addition to a review of the grant to the municipalities, it is good that we make it clearer today that qualifications and job opportunities should be given to refugees when they are assigned to a municipality. Increased self-settlement and use of the private rental market are also more clearly encouraged, and this is good, for example. in the hometown of the Prime Minister, Bergen, find 60 pst. of the refugees settled, the apartment on their own, and it did so that in 2014 Bergen received the price as the municipality of residence and integration of the year by the IMFI. They are considered a leader in integration in the West, and one of the reasons is that they have already used the private rental market for a long time. Anyone who has spoken in this debate has stated that the Stortinget must insist that the institution of asylum be used on those who need protection. However, one of the reasons why the Greens withdrew from the so-called 'agreement negotiations' in the autumn was that the proposals that were promoted as urgent measures against increases in asylum arrivals were, in reality, far-reaching measures that – in addition to not being linked to arrival figures – will in the long term make integration more difficult for those who actually need protection. This is because these measures promote isolation and too many will be perceived as grossly unfair. According to some representatives of the Progress Party, this is now Europe's most stringent refugee policy. Fortunately, this is, of course, a gross exaggeration, but these measures should obviously be far better explored, professionally justified and politically discussed. The best example of such a measure is the point of asking the government to promote a bill to tighten up the right to family immigration. However, family reunification is already difficult, and today’s maintenance requirements for bringing their own children to Norway require that you have worked up an income that is often not based on such a short deadline on the application for someone coming to Norway. Nor is it a fair asylum policy to prevent people who flee from conflict, food shortages or persecution, from getting their families safe to Norway and starting a new life with them. It is a violation of human rights, because the right to family life is internationally recognised, and this action will affect the most vulnerable and only those with a need for protection. The Greens will vote in favour of all the measures we are in favour of, and we will also do so when the measures proposed by the government come up in the Stortninget We will today vote against the proposals to tighten up the right to family reunification, towards the point of preserving the housing model and, where appropriate, for SV's alternative proposals for a text that opens up so that changes in the housing model can continue to be assessed. We are also left with many questions for this series of vague suggestions, for example. XI that religious leaders contributing to the weakening of integration should not be granted a residence permit. This is a mildly unsavory proposal. Is the temporary residence or permanent residence permit considered, or is it actually meant that religious seduction should be the basis for refusing refugee status? What, then, should be defined as a business that weakens integration? The size has asked for a broad settlement. The Green Party contributes to the broad agreement, but we will not deviate from the points that are a prerequisite for good integration and for maintaining human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e475	A sound integration policy involves a balance between obligations and rights. The individual shall meet with a requirement to contribute and participate. Demanding is a good integration policy. A prerequisite for a good integration policy is a sustainable immigration policy. The fact that the field of immigration and integration is now in one department makes it easier to see these policy areas in context. An overall objective is for all residents of Norway to have opportunities to live a good life in the future. An important part of this is that new citizens are given the opportunity to contribute, get into work and become taxpayers. This is also how we maintain a society with high trust between people and between people and governments. This will not be a quick fix. More than in the past will now be integrated into a labour market that is difficult in many parts of the country. We've just gone into a new year. With us, we have what marked the last half of last year, in Norway and in the rest of Europe – the biggest refugee crisis we have seen since World War II. No one can avoid being affected by the images and stories we see and read about in the media, about families and lonely children and young people fleeing from war and conflict areas. The large number of refugees who came to Europe, and to Norway, means that we are now in a different situation than a short time ago. Refugees arriving in Norway need to adapt to a whole new situation — new language, new ways of living, new society. It is our job to facilitate the use of newcomers’ resources — both for themselves and for society — but it takes a great deal of self-reliance to be integrated. Integration policy must be further developed and made more effective. The government will present a communication to the Stortinget on integration policy in spring 2016 together with the revised national budget. In this Communication, the proposals of the representatives of Nesvik, Gahr Støre, Arnstad, Helleland, Hareide and Skei Grande play an important role. It is positive that there is a strong consensus that we need to focus on integration in the future, and that emphasis needs to be placed on good housing in municipalities, rapid and targeted qualification for the labour market, the exploitation of skills, the importance of learning Norwegian and the importance of industry and the voluntary nature of this work. Municipalities have done a historically good job in the last few years, but the increase in the number of refugees to be settled this year and next year requires a new shift in the settlement work. I want to continue the good cooperation that the government has with the local government sector. Next week I will have a meeting with KS, and one of the themes of the meeting is to further develop the settlement agreement with KS. The settlement of lone minor refugees is our first priority. Lone minor refugees who are allowed to stay shall be settled as soon as possible after they have been authorised. It is an investment in the future that these young people are given security and care and become part of a local environment, so that they get into work and become active members of society, but it is not possible to undermine that this is one of the most demanding challenges facing Norwegian society. The police too point to the importance of success. Without good integration, we can get groups of young people who experience little belonging to Norway and become frustrated when life here does not turn out to be what they thought. The Introduction Act provides a good framework for the qualification of refugees for work or training. The last few years have about 70 pst. men who have taken part in the programme have moved to work and training within one year of the end of the programme. At the same time, there is wide variation between municipalities in results for participants. Women as a group have too poor results; there are too many who do not get into work and education after completion of the introduction programme. With many more people going through the introduction programme, we need to streamline and target the programme more effectively. This is the reason for this in the law. Many municipalities have good results, but more can be better. Although it is a goal that reception stays should not be long-term, and that refugees should quickly enter a municipality and work, the reality is that there will be longer reception stays than desired for many in the future. In Norwegian society, volunteering is strong, and non-governmental organisations can play an important role in liaising with local communities and new citizens. I would urge you to be realistic in the debate on integration. We've never stood up in such a situation as now. We have to succeed, but no one can easily take on this problem. Employment of many people with limited education and background from other cultures, while unemployment is increasing and Norway has to convert the economy, suggests that this will require a lot of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e501	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e504	First, I would like to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget in a new field, and we in the Workers' Party look forward to working with her. Now the Stortinget has given the government a very clear and, not least, very detailed job through the integration agreement. This year's biggest task will undoubtedly be to settle close to 20,000 people, and there are almost twice as many who have been living per year in recent years. This job is for the municipalities to do, which the Council of State was also involved in their article. If they are to succeed, they must receive clear support from government and greatness. Therefore, the agreement states very clearly that the settlement work in the municipalities should be given priority, and that with the new agreement between the government and the KS one must ensure that one settles in line with the need. What kind of concrete action will the Minister for Integration take to ensure that people live in line with the need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e511	Now, the municipalities have done an excellent job both in the last two years to increase the number of residents, and I have great faith that the municipalities will continue the good work next year. The fact that we manage to live in municipalities is linked to the fact that if we are to create taxpayers and not get many who live on public welfare schemes, it is absolutely necessary that they become part of a community. I think the municipalities have shown good tact and will settle. So the challenge, which I was faced with in my post, is especially related to single minors. That's where we have to work. Now the government, together with the cooperation parties, has already added 100 000 extra kroner per resident of a single minor in the budget of the year, but we need to look at what more needs to be done. It is also linked to the fact that more people say it's important to settle them and integrate them, because it can have consequences in the future if we don't succeed in that work. That is why we must succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e516	I fully agree that very many of the municipalities do a very good job in this area. Nevertheless, it is a fact that too many asylum seekers who have been settled have waited a long time, with the asylum figures we had before 2015. I agree with the Council of State that we must have a realistic approach to integration. It's also about paying what it costs. This year, almost 4 600 single-year-old asylum seekers are to be settled. I refer here to what the rapporteur in Askim said to the VG before Christmas: «I am the Right-Rapporteur, but precisely this matter we want in Ashim to mark against the government. I have been assigned to send letters to the Department and the Directorate for Integration and Diversity and explain why we say no.’ The reason is that the government has weakened the funding of municipal child protection measures and that municipalities suffer financial losses by settling single minor refugees. This is in addition to a poor municipal economy. What can we expect from the new Minister for Integration in this field, and when will she return to the Grand Duchy with an improvement in funding for single minors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e526	I would like to start by saying that I disagree with the fact that this government has arranged for a poor local economy. On the contrary, the local economy has been strengthened in the years of this government. Then there are some challenges with single minors, but there is an extra $100,000 for the lone minors who will be settled in the coming years. Then I'm going to have a meeting with KS next week, and I also want to work closely with KS in the future to find out what we can do to ensure that the work on integrating these is going well, and for the municipalities to want to participate in that work – and many want to participate. I visited a very good action last week. Then I was at a public high school. Folk high schools provide places for single minors, which is an excellent arena where they both get school and learn Norwegian and get to participate in leisure activities, which makes them learn Norwegian society. So I think we need to think new and creatively about how we can get these kids into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e540	I am glad that the Council of State in its speech took the challenge of talking about what we can do for the group that was now mentioned; the lonely minors. The description given by the Council of State is in line with our views: if we do not succeed with this group, there are many other bodies that are going to have many major concerns. As the Council of State mentions, it is true that this was an important issue also in the budget negotiations before Christmas. We increased the grant by $100,000. We don't see the effect of so far. But when the Council of State is about to meet KS, I would like to give a strong call from our party to really consider whether this level can be a success factor for integration – or be the opposite – and that she puts great pressure on finding the right incentives for the rapid settlement of this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e547	I can assure you that one of my main priorities is to figure out how we can do this in a good way. We also have to look for the good examples here. There is variation in the integration of municipalities. As was said earlier, some municipalities are making money on this, while others are struggling, so we have to find these success factors. I can assure the representative Syversen that I am going to be as energetic in getting integration as I am in tightening up. These things are related, they are closely related, and therefore it is so good that we have now assembled this field into one department. In terms of integration, it is a long-term work. There are differences in the success rate with regard to the background from different countries. I mean, for example. that we have to look at different backgrounds: what makes that e.g. do Somalis work on the labour market and have difficulty being integrated? What makes other groups succeed? I don't think one size fits all, but we have to start tailoring this even closer than we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e556	Everyday integration takes place in the municipalities, and if the government and the councils fail with the municipalities and the municipalities' resources, integration is not successful either. The central party agrees with the government that a contract-based settlement is the best, but one of the reasons why it is not easy to settle today is that there is uncertainty about the economic conditions. It is a fact that the host municipality grant is underfunded, it is a fact that the grants to lone minors should also be increased far beyond what they are today. So my question goes a little bit in the same direction as some before: I understand that you want to engage in dialogue with KS, but how quickly does the government think to work in this area? Is it relevant for the government to come back already in the revised national budget with an overview of the extra costs received by municipalities and also with proposals for an improved municipal economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e564	We are going to work as quickly as possible, and we have close contact with KS. I'm going to meet them myself next week, and then this is going to be a very important topic. I fully agree that the economy is of course important for settlement, but it is a complex picture, because, as I said, some municipalities are already making money with the rates that are today, while others are struggling to recover the costs. Therefore, of course, it will require quite a lot of work to go into this and look at all aspects of this matter. But what is certainly a recurring issue – which many municipalities at least agree on – is that it is quite obvious that we need to look at what is happening to lonely minors. So these $100,000 that were added to this year's budget can help make that job easier, but we'll see that in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e571	One sees that the Council of State is offensive from Day 1. The left has been clear that language, activity and not least cultural understanding are important to our society and to move on. The Council of State itself calls it a contribution to the creation of taxpayers. It is not so different from our input that we believe that activity is involved and clearly contributes to good integration. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State: how far has she come explicitly in the integration work? And how will she make sure to be as offensive on that track as she is on other parts of the track in the deal – not least the first part?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e578	Some things we want to work with continuously, including: competence mapping. There's money added to the budget, and we'll soon get back to how we're going to do that work. Many other departments are also in the picture here – NOKUT has to do a job in terms of knowledge, etc., so there is the Ministry of Knowledge with it – but we keep this together and will follow it closely. The integration message that comes in May becomes the most important matter. Some of the clarifications on what we want to propose will come there. But what's possible to do before, we're going to do before. So I think it's important to be offensive. At the same time, however, it is very important to run a little with expectations management, because it is clear that despite the constraints we are doing, and despite what is happening in the future, the picture is quite uncertain as to what is going to happen in the year we are in – the estimate from the UDI is 10 000-60,000 asylum seekers. We know that even when it comes to integration, expectations management is important, because there is no quick fix, it's going to take time. I think it's important that we're together too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e587	I hear from the statements of the Council of State that she does not have any particular faith either in a faster procedure for those who are going to be, or in a faster settlement. It's sad, because it's important -- it might be the most important thing to get good integration. But she mentioned in her post particular concern for women as a group. There's SV very much in agreement. Being able to have one's own income is one of the most important means of living a seagoing life and making our own decisions, as we want all women to be able to do. It is therefore important to remove mechanisms that maintain old gender roles, such as cash support, and it is important to direct action against women so that they can acquire skills and get to work quickly and break these traditional conservative role patterns. There we have the job opportunities, and we have SV's proposal to combine the introduction system with qualifying measures, because qualification may be even more important for women than for men. Will the Council of State look at both of these proposals with transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e596	The job balance is already increased by 10 million. kr. It's a project that I understand works very well, and I'm going to visit one of these measures to take a closer look. I have that attitude that it is important to be out in the field and see it, feel it and talk to those who are there, to get under the skin how things work – so I'm going to do that. I do not know exactly what the representative Karin Andersen wants when she says that I do not believe in faster settlement and processing. I don't understand what that was of what I said, which made her draw such a conclusion. On the contrary, we have to work both to speed up the processing process and to speed up the settlement process, and in the meantime we also have to look at how our receiver works. One of the proposals put forward here concerns this with integration reception. The speeding up of integration for those who are likely to be here is very important to get people to be able to stand on their own quickly. So here's a lot of good suggestions that we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e605	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e608	The field of immigration and asylum is a sensitive policy area, an important policy area – and for many reasons. One thing is the fact that it's relatively polarizing. Another is that different use of rhetorical instruments contributes to creating debates, even where perhaps the basis for consensus is actually greater than it may seem. But both of these relationships are superseded by the fact that it's an incredibly important area. It concerns people in Norway who have come here after being on the run, where the policies we pursue and the rhetoric we use help to influence how many people come to the country, to what extent we are able to distinguish between those who are entitled to stay and those who do not, how we are able to accept those who are going to be and to return those who are going to go out, and not least – how those who come are able to integrate into Norwegian society and be self-sustaining and active members of society. Norway has an obligation to help people in need and to provide protection from persecution. We also have a responsibility to give those who come here the best possible starting point for establishing a new life in Norway. And the task of receiving, settling and integrating refugees and asylum seekers to such an extent will be demanding for the foreign administration, but above all for the municipalities. The most important objective to which all measures should be addressed is to get those who come here to the country, asylum seekers who are allowed to stay, to get to work quickly. There must be a clear expectation that you will come to Norway and you will work. There shall be a requirement for activity. Participation in working life and good Norwegian knowledge are also the keys to inclusion. Work gives access to communities and networks, and it also allows for self-driving. Labour income also provides an opportunity to enter the housing market. The right is concerned with a lot of these areas, but I want to point out in particular that it is strengthening the position and professional participation of immigrant women in Norwegian society. If a woman is integrated, not just an individual, but an entire family is integrated. Newcomers must be willing to follow our laws and regulations, to learn Norwegian and to work and to participate in society. Integration is never completely problem-free, but neither is it hopeless. We all have a responsibility here. In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister said: ‘In Norway we have no ghettos. Nowhere where young people only experience hopelessness.» We have to be able to hold on to this. Anyone who grows up in Norway must experience that our society gives those who work hard and on it the right opportunity to succeed. At the same time, the state can offer the best schemes and systems, but it can not only ensure that refugees become part of Norwegian society. Right will contribute to the creation of a welcome culture in the municipalities, where volunteering, business and civil society play a greater role. If our values are going to win, we also have to do what we call everyday integration. Here we can all contribute. The alternative to failure to achieve integration is increasing differences between immigrants and the rest of the population and enormous costs of social welfare budgets. Everyone will win if we succeed in integrating, and everyone will just lose if we don't. With this in mind, I must say that I am proud to be part of a broad majority who today adopt important instruments for better integration. We've looked over political dividing lines, we've been willing to adjust primary positions and try to find one another – and we've done it. Through it, Stortinget plays an active role in the future of Norwegian immigration and asylum policies. The broad consensus is also a strength to succeed. Asylum seekers coming here will now be met by an overall political Norway, which meets them with positive means of integration and with obligations and obligations to take responsibility for themselves. This is an important prerequisite for success – and we must succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e635	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e638	Through the two agreements concluded, the size has taken responsibility for bringing together policies in the field of immigration. Six parties support the agreement and create a broad majority for asylum and integration policy. I'm glad. The centre party called early for the policy of immigration to be enshrined in broad agreements between the parties. There's several reasons for that. Firstly, the large flows of refugees into Europe and the dramatic conditions experienced by refugees have created a great need to establish new and pooling solutions. Secondly, the potential for pooling solutions has been strongly challenged by one of the government parties, which has highlighted a policy of immigration that does not support the majority of the population. While we are discussing today a common commitment to the good integration of refugees, the consultation note on changes in the Foreign Affairs Act that came from the government in mid-July, in the municipalities and among the hearing bodies is now being discussed. It is important to stress that these are two sides of the same case. How we meet the refugee crisis and asylum seekers in Norway affects the ability to implement a good integration policy. I have seen that there has recently been a debate on the concept of ‘strong and fair asylum policy’ in relation to the concept of ‘humane and fair asylum policy’. From my point of view and from the point of view of the Central Party, all the terms must be included. Norwegian asylum policy must be humane, fair, but also strict. Individuals seeking asylum and residence in Norway shall have the security to focus on human dignity and to ensure legal certainty. But it is also true that not everyone seeking asylum should be allowed to stay in Norway. Those who do not have the right to stay must be returned. Therefore, strictness must be ensured by the fact that asylum seekers are without right to return quickly. Human, fair and strict are the Central Party's preconditions for the immigration policy solutions that we will fall in the form of decisions by the Stortinget during the spring. In such an overall approach, there is no room for stigmatizing statements such as that the refugees are carried on gold stools into the country or that Norwegian asylum policy suffers from a good governance. Chapter 2 of the document deals with children in transit. Lone minor asylum seekers have become an increasing proportion of those who come. It's a particularly vulnerable group. I am therefore pleased that this group is being discussed so thoroughly. Proper arrangements for these and rapid settlement are important. However, municipalities refuse to take responsibility for housing, not least after the funding of child protection measures for these has been significantly weakened. That is why I would like to stress the need for a rapid follow-up of special item five under chapter three on Children in Refugees. The full funding of this scheme is a prerequisite for good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e653	Now there's a lot of consensus in this room about the way forward for integration, but I want to say one thing on a general basis, because it can work like this sometimes when you hear some of my red-green co-representatives, like the integration challenge has only arisen now. I have to remind you that in all the years that the previous government was responsible, it was actually that the integration work just thousands and went, without taking many of the necessary steps that you are now taking, and for which our government has gone into play. We know that the introduction system, which was introduced by the then municipal minister Erna Solberg, has also only doubled and passed in the years under the red-green – without necessary renewal, without having taken on board what it means that only four out of ten come out into work or education after the introduction course. So the time was ripe for renewal, but there's no doubt that the situation we're in now has updated this more than ever. That's why I'm also very happy that the Storting has come together in a large majority, and I notice that even the two parties that for various reasons have chosen to stand outside the likes, warn that they are going to vote for the most part. So it's a so-called unanimous big thing that's behind this. I would also like to say that as politicians we must have the following input into this, because this is not a piece of simple work, and I think the Council of State said it very nicely – this is not going to be a quick fix. I think we have to go through quite rough thanks. That means tough choices in the narrow-minded part, that means tough demands when we're going to integrate, but as a politician, I have to have a basic belief that the best stories of integration are still ahead of us. I don't think I, for example, belong to the last generation with minority backgrounds that got a fair and good chance of being integrated into Norway. The best stories are in front of us, and in order to do that, we are adopting some important things today. There are three pillars in particular that we need to look at, which are contained in the document, and which we need to address quickly in the integration message as well. First, integration must start earlier, preferably already in reception, second, that we need to have a housing model that gets people out of the municipalities faster, so that they can start their lives much faster than they do today, and thirdly, that we need to have a complete review of today's introduction system, so that the results are better and the differences between municipalities are balanced in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e662	The very last part of Kapur's posts, I think we all agree. That is why SV has made its own proposals on this which are clear and consistent, as opposed to some of the vague proposals that lie here today. I have noticed that there is not one representative who has spoken about the benefits of preventing family reunification for those who are actually allowed to stay in Norway today, which is considered so important by the majority that they even had to repeat a proposal that was adopted in exactly the same way before Christmas by the majority in this proposal. It must mean that they believe that being insecure for their family, sitting and waiting for them, being afraid of them, should be an advantage, that it should be a carrot to wait for. I just have to admit that it is completely incomprehensible for SV. It is also in our view contrary to human rights and the right to family. So I'm asking the majority to think about it -- precisely because we want good integration. So the representative said that in Norway it has to be that if you work hard, you have to succeed. It is SV agree, but it should also be that you do not get into misery if you are unlucky and get sick and untidy. It can happen to everyone, I think we have to remember that. In the end, I want to discuss a different theme – a little bit about talking about difficult things here today. We've talked about integrating women, which is more difficult than men because there are some old-fashioned, traditional and conservative structures. Then we have to have programs specifically aimed at women, and we have to stop paying women to stay away from the work and the kids away from the kindergarten. We would rather have to pay for them to qualify well. The last is that in the SV's proposal we have a broad point about strengthening the work against extreme attitudes and radicalisation much more than what we have done today. There is an action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, but it is not funded, and it has not been followed up in all police districts. It has to be done. The size must strengthen the financing of prevention measures, and it must also be ensured that the SALTO programme, which has been adopted, operates in all police districts and that the SLT coordinators operate in all municipalities. It is very important to be aware of children and young people who are exposed to bullying, care failure and violence. Some of these kids and young people are completely alone, without adults who can take care of them, and are in such a great danger. This is incredibly important that we succeed, both for society and for the individuals involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e674	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e688	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after the insertion of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e695	This case should be seen in the context of Prop. 85 L for 2013–2014 on amendments to the Professional Transport Act as the Stortinget dealt with in 2014. The legislative changes made at that time were necessary for the implementation of the Regulation. Prop. 6 S for 2015–2016 is therefore a follow-up to the previous case. It is about giving better rights to bus passengers, with a special focus on the rights of disabled persons or reduced mobility. It is about determining the liability and obligations of bus companies in the event of accidents, cancellations and delays, minimum travel information requirements and rules on the establishment of a complaint subject for the handling of complaints by bus passengers. It prohibits discrimination based on nationality for all regular services and provides for the right of carriage of passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility on all regular services. Furthermore, the Regulation prohibits discrimination when reservation and issuing tickets, as well as when boarding or disembarking. Furthermore, bus companies, ticket vendors and travel agencies are subject to certain obligations in cases where a disabled person is denied boarding due to his reduced mobility. It harmonises the legislation in this transport sector with the rules applicable to passenger rights in the aviation, rail and maritime sectors. It is a joint committee which supports the proposal submitted. At one point the Committee shall share its views. It concerns the follow-up of a case related to assistance services for disabled persons. It therefore obliges Member States to designate bus terminals to provide free assistance to disabled persons. Carriers with fixed routes over 250 km and terminal operators shall provide free assistance. When the Stortingen dealt with the matter in 2014, the Committee was concerned about this. In the Committee's setting up at that time, the Committee indicated that the need for assistance services is equally great in short journeys. The Committee therefore asked the Ministry to provide an overview of how this is being done locally and asked the Ministry to assess how, if necessary, it could ensure the organisation and financing of assistance services at terminals which also cover intra-corporate public transport, where there are most travellers. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, now consider that the Department of Proposition does not address this. The majority consider it critical if the department has not followed up the matter satisfactorily. The right hand side of the Propulsion Party, on its side, points out that the Ministry of Draft Regulations does not distinguish between passengers on a bus route which has a scheduled route length of, more than or less than 250 km. The provision of assistance thus becomes available, in their view, to all travellers at the designated terminals. I won't stay long on this, and it's positive if the intention is followed up. But it must be said that the ministry should have answered the committee's questions here. The Committee explicitly asked for an overview and the Ministry was asked to assess the organisation and funding. It wasn't done. But all in all, the most important thing here – after all – is that there is consensus in the Committee on the matter and on the substance of the matter. The Committee unanimously recommended that the Storting give its consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e718	The size currently deals with a regulation aimed at improving the rights of bus passengers, with a particular focus on the rights of disabled persons or reduced mobility. These proposals primarily strengthen the rights of bus passengers, but also ensure that passengers’ rights are harmonised to a much greater extent than before, regardless of whether a passenger is travelling in the air, on the railways, on the sea or on the road. This is a pleasurable and necessary measure, for which the Workers' Party fully supports. The Labour Party believes that everyone should be involved, including in public transport. This contributes to the security of the individual and that people’s opportunities depend less on the wallet. Then it is important that we continue to strengthen the social fabric that has made Norway the country it is today, and this proposal contributes to it. The goal is a universally designed society in 2025. Some will depend on different forms of help to get out of home and to be able to participate in public transport. Today's decision will make it easier for people most to get out and take part in this traffic. However, it is a challenge in dealing with this matter that the Ministry of Proposition does not mention the organisation and financing of assistance services provided by the Innst Storting. 254 L for 2013–2014. The task of identifying the extent to which the need for assistance services has been addressed locally has only begun now, after the Stortinget has asked for work. The costs of the complaint mechanism, the assistance system, training and service may be problematic for companies alone. Without further leads or compensation, there is a significant risk that the State will now charge the costs of the regulation to the collective users and the increased costs will have to be covered by increased prices. This comes at the top of the VAT increase, and does not offset all of the transport companies affected. The consequence may be higher fares, which are not exactly an incentive for more people to travel collectively. I assume that the department is following developments closely and is putting in place the necessary measures if a negative trend for the use of public transport is confirmed. I'm concerned about the progress towards achieving the goal of a universally designed transport system in 2025. Several organisations also launched this at the hearing of the Transport Committee on the 2016 State Budget. This is a step in the right direction, but I register that the initiative comes from the EU and not from the government itself. It is one of the main objectives of the national transport plan, Meld. Article 26 of the 2012–2013 Regulation requires the transport system to be universally designed. This is an NTP and a main objective that the government parties and the Minister for Transport have set themselves behind. Work on a universally designed transport system needs to be given higher priority by the government, so that we actually reach the goal we have set – not in order to achieve an objective in itself, but in order for everyone to have the opportunity to participate, and for those who depend on help to actually get out of the home and have the opportunity to have as normal a life as possible. With the comments that have now been made by the undersigned, the Workers' Party, as explained by the rapporteur, will support the Committee's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e744	The last article made me take the word to put things a little bit into perspective. This is a matter of an EU directive relating to a particular mode of transport – the long journeys. But we must not forget that the main responsibility for public transport in this country lies in the counties. They're the ones who carry most of the passengers. When it comes to providing facilities for disabled people and facilitating transport for everyone to use it, there is a great responsibility on the part of the counties. The role of the State in this is, in fact, to ensure that the framework conditions are present, and this has been done through a wide range of measures. In recent years, money has been allocated to universal design. I believe that the counties through their bidding rounds in the case of buses, which is the major carrier in this country, have paid particular attention to the fact that those who receive the tenders have means of transport which are specially designed also for disabled persons. With regard to the requirement that we pointed out in the harvest, this was the case in the context of the long transport operations with the local transport operations for which the counties are primarily responsible. It has to do with the operation of the large collective terminals. It is a mission that the government has received, and that the Council of State will certainly respond to. But the point is that this should be reported back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. So the question is whether this was the appropriate way to do it, or whether there are other ways to report back to Stortinget about what you have actually done in this kind of case. I'm sure the Council of State will respond to what's now coming. I would like to stress once again that there is a question here about what is the responsibility of the county, and what is the responsibility of the state. I don't think you have to over-dimension this case, which really applies to a small part of the transport, and that it is based on the state we have in public transport in general in Norway. I think both the NSB and the different local transport companies -- routes, which I know well, which have 60 pst. of the country’s public transport – facilitating this all the time. This concerns an EU directive and therefore we did not really intend to take this as a major debate, because this is a follow-up to a previous decision we have already taken. It has to be put in that perspective first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e757	As previous speakers have pointed out, good public transport is important in a society, especially for people who are dependent on getting help when they are going out and going. One must ensure that one has a public transport service that has both a coverage and a frequency that makes it relevant in their everyday lives and that one is given assistance to use the public transport service when they need it. It is an important matter that this government is working on, and that we also know that previous big business has been very busy. This is a contribution in that direction. Some people point out that it is striking that there is an EU regulation that makes this work. Yes, this is an EU regulation adopted in the EU in 2011. If you're going to start with a polemic about the time, you might also ask yourself why nothing came up earlier. I don't think it's worth debating. This debate should rather be about putting in place many rights for bus passengers, which make them stand stronger now than before. So it's not a weakening, it's a clear reinforcement. And we're going to work on that. The regulation provides that disabled people and people with mobility challenges will be able to take buses more easily, and if something happens, they will also have more formal channels of complaint. This comes along with the fact that we have increased the stakes on the railway by over 50 pst. in the last two years, and that the largest cities have experienced a sharp increase in the appropriations to operate public transport and invest in infrastructure. Thus, in 2014 and 2015, a city like Oslo has received EUR 715 million through the public transport reward scheme. kr, while one in 2012 and 2013 received a total of 180 million. kr – i.e. a quadruple. It improves the ability of municipalities and county councils to provide collective services to all – including those with reduced mobility. It is important that we continue this work – that we work with the legislation, that we work with public funding, but also that each carrier and every state responsible for public transport look at how their services can improve, both within what they are required by law, and within what goes under the category of service, to help. We have many meetings with the organisations of the disabled. It's on the program at least every six months. Then we get a lot of input from these groups about what works, and what doesn't work – what services and statutory tasks they think they don't get, as they should have. This is important for us to get feedback about, because then we can see what it is that makes things fail. Is it about economics, about organisation, or is it about responsibility not being clear enough? The same organizations come with much as they would like to. Something costs money, other things are just about looking at principle. We are very responsive that we should continue working with these groups, to satisfy them as best they can and get the best possible public transport they can use. What's the bonus here is that if you get a better public transport for the disabled, it'll usually be better for everyone else who travels. So it's a win-win situation to take this seriously. We're going to follow developments closely. I listen carefully to what is being said from the opposition parties. We'll take that with us. But I believe that a success criterion here is to follow the overall traffic figures – whether we get a continued growth or whether it becomes a stagnation, as some here fear. If it becomes a stagnation, it is obvious that one has not done things well enough, but if we get another growth, it shows that this is strengthening the offer further. We're also going to be very aware of single events. If it is that one adopts a regulation, and one has the right to this not being financed or organised, I guess we will hear a lot of complaints – not necessarily to the department directly, but to the complaint subject that is being set up. It's also a signal that we have to take with us. I will not sit still and look at a pile of complaints coming to a complaint subject, if the problem is actually the organisation and funding. Then we have to look at what politicians can handle. I'm not going to go through all the rights and requirements that are being imposed. It is well described in the summary in the settings. We believe that this is a good step in the right direction. I'm glad the Stortinge decides this. I hear where there is disagreement, and I'm going to make sure that this is followed up in the best possible way – because I think we agree on the objectives here, all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e779	As I noted in my intervention, several organisations came with concerns about the Transport Committee during the 2016 public budget hearings. Concern concerned the possibility of achieving the objective of a universally designed transport system in 2025. I therefore have a simple question to the Council of State: What concrete action will the Council of State take to achieve the objective of a universally designed transport system in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e784	The goals that are set, we're behind them, and we're working to meet them. It's about appropriations, it's about making sure that we work well with the organisations to define the order of priorities, and it's about working closely with, for example. The Railway Agency and the Road Directorate to ensure that there is a focus area for them as well. I'm very concerned that when we implement these measures, we'll also see if we can do things in a smarter way, whether we can organize things differently to get more money back and challenge the system that way. I feel that I get a very good response – both from the organisations of the disabled and from the state agencies that are going to do the physical job with the counties – to the fact that we look at the possibilities, look at the order of priorities, so that we simply reach the goals as quickly as possible and at the lowest possible cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e791	Does the Council of State believe that the objective of a universally designed 2025 transport system is within reach, and can it possibly reach that objective earlier than 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e796	I don't want to wonder if in ten years' time we'll achieve a goal. In many cases that the Storting has dealt with under previous governments, we have been very busy with a date instead of spending time actually implementing the measures. I am concerned that we are now spending time on the measures, and it would be natural that when we deal with, for example. National transport plan, takes an evaluation of where we stand, and what we need to do further to ensure that the objectives that have been adopted in a way across national transport plans are met in the best possible way. But there is no doubt about the appropriations and the approach we have, that this is one of the areas in which we work hard and that we need to take care of. We have no reason to believe that we are not going to achieve the goals at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e802	To ask the question in a slightly different way: will the Council of State continue this objective in its proposal for a new national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e807	I think, as I also said in my post, that we all share the wish for what we're going to get. Making more people travel collectively is also an important part of giving a mobile society to everyone as an alternative. It's about the frequency and extent of public transport and universal accessibility, that people can actually use it even if they have disabilities. I think we can achieve those goals, absolutely, I just said that. What we're going to write into the National Transport Plan, the Storting is going to know when we put it forward. There's no reason now to believe that we're going to start changing on such overall goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e812	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e828	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e835	Let me first say that there is no doubt that it is important to focus on drugs in the transport sector. The Committee has also expressed its opinion very clearly in the consideration of this draft document 8. So initially, four proposals were made. One of the proposals is taken out, and one is modified. Two are hanging again, and one extra has been hung. Those who read the case will see that the committee has worked well, and not least has adapted it to the situation as it is now. In this context, it has been important for the Committee to support the fact that the Air Safety Authority must first be allowed to complete the investigation into the misuse of drugs in aviation before it is appropriate to carry out, for example: regulatory changes. However, the Committee considers that it is important to consider the possibility of a temporary reinforced control effort in the framework of current legislation and that the entire Committee is in favour of more frequent controls against alcohol abuse. There has been one reason why the Committee proposes to consider the possibility of more frequent controls. Then we will also note that aviation in Norway is actually high-security, and so on that all aviation actors are working with good safety for the purpose. It is probably one of the areas where there are clearly high requirements for regulatory behaviour, not least there are also requirements for testing, etc. With regard to the proposal as it has been promoted by the representatives of the Christian People's Party here, we feel on the part of the government parties that it may be a bit slim. It's just a small part of it that we should actually be concerned with. Of course, we would point out that the unfortunate incident in August with drunken crew members is an important reminder that safety work is a continuous process and that the use of drugs is a safety challenge for several parts of the transport sector. But I think very many people think that a crew that comes to an airport comes into the terminal and goes out to the plane. Actually, it's not like that. A crew arriving at an aerodrome shall pass through many checkpoints. It first meets its own colleagues – or other colleagues – in a separate room, where one discusses air routes and collects important papers that one needs for transport. It's the first place where crewet meets other people face to face. The other place is when the crewet comes out to the street. There meet crewet technical staff, meet street staff, meet other fuel planning actors, etc., where one actually also has the opportunity to detect any alcohol consumption. And then there are very clear demands for all employees who work in aviation: the threshold for reporting is very low, for someone knows what consequences it can have. So it could easily get all the way into a cockpit and still haven't been reported, happens extremely, very rarely. That's why you might have to think about the use of time in terms of having a mandatory alcot test, as the Christian People's Party here suggests. I might have been a little surprised when, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I heard the news that one thought one would get a pass for this in the Chamber today. This is a bit strange, because a concrete proposal for mandatory testing is not currently under consideration. What I think we should focus on is everything around the industry. Aviation security is an important cross-political mantra, and the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, are particularly concerned about this with good working conditions. We are concerned with mental challenges, increased use of controls, as I said, also against pill abuse. Fatigue – i.e. fatigue – we also see what is called the ‘not fit for flight’ problem. This means that crewet itself will tell if it is fit for flight or not, and with short working conditions and contracts there are many who may stretch the knit a little. This is what it's important to focus on. I know that the government is working on matters in this area, and so does the Advance Party and the Right here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e850	The detection of the use of drugs in aviation is particularly important, and everyone understands that it can have major consequences if it is not possible to detect it. Work on zero tolerance for alcohol abuse and abuse of other drugs in aviation may not be taken for granted. We were strongly reminded of this at the event last August, where four out of five Air Baltic crew members were intoxicated. The Air Safety Authority states that there may be grounds to believe that drug use among crew members poses a certain safety risk in Norway. Air traffic controllers indicate that one is initially very rare to experience aviation accidents and other aviation incidents in Norway where misuse of alcohol or other drugs is detected. However, historical data show that a global accident occurs with passenger aircraft every other to every three years that can be related to the influence of alcohol or medications. The Air Safety Authority is not aware of the existence of studies or statistics on drug abuse in service among pilots of Norwegian air carriers. It is important that we do not make strange rules, but work to get international and/or European guidelines. The EU is now working with pan-European rules, and it is important that we are an active driver to put this in place in close cooperation with our Nordic colleagues. The Labour Party participates in the majority decisions. In addition, we have supported the Christian People's Party's proposal to assess regulatory changes that ensure that pilot and cabin crew per-mille checks are implemented in the routines, and we record that this is a measure that the Air Safety Authority assesses. But the Workers' Party believes that this does not mean control of everyone before flying. We will therefore not be in favour of the requirement for alcolocks in aeroplanes or mandatory testing of all at this stage. It is important that we do not contribute to the suspicion of an entire profession, which depends on the confidence of the travelling audience. At the same time, however, there must be good control procedures, so that deviations can be detected, and it is of course essential to maintain a high level of attention to the attitudes and reporting obligations of Crewet. It is also important to look at the challenges of drugs other than alcohol — I agree with what was said by the previous speaker. Nor should we forget the focus on, as was also mentioned, fatigue, or ‘fatigue’, and I am pleased that the Air Safety Authority also highlights this, according to the letter of reply we received from the Council of State. Today, there is a pan-European legislation that has working time rules that allow pilots to work up to 15 hours behind the levers without a break, which can also create adverse events and threaten flight safety. It is therefore important to focus on industry legislation, accidental loopholes that are there today, and lack of supervision, so that in the future, aviation can also be characterised by high security and not least by zero tolerance for drug abuse in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e871	Would the representative like to take up the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Central Party in the sitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e874	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e879	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, then addressed the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e882	Flight in Norway shall be safe, and Norwegian aviation shall be of high security, with strict procedures to ensure passenger safety. Discovering and preventing drug use in the transport sector is one of the areas where good control procedures are important. For this reason, work has already been started on the Air Safety Authority to assess how a mandatory substance testing scheme for crew members on aeroplanes can best be set up. In Norway accidents have very rarely been detected as a result of the misuse of drugs in aviation, but similar to the transport sector, we in the Right are concerned that good regulatory and control measures are also being implemented for aviation, which are targeted. For this reason, we are pleased that the government is already working on what control measures will be targeted to prevent drug use. In this work, it is important that one does not narrow it down to just some drugs. This document 8 proposal from the Christian People's Party helped to create an important debate, but if we were to follow the call with a proposal for a decision, as it is here led by the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party, it would lead to a change in the law with a focus on only pro-mille and alcohol at that time. In our view, it is now more important to encourage the airlines and those working with safety at airports to find good control procedures while waiting for the Air Safety Authority to come up with its clearance. This will not require a specific law change at this time - just stick to the prom. In addition, I would like to point out that it is important that a Norwegian-based person works well at European level, so that we can put in place good pan-European rules for the drug testing of pilots and cabin crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e895	The President will draw attention to the fact that the proposal taken up by the representative Juvik was from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, not from the Central Party, which the President was going to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e898	The August 2015 episode with the pilots and cabin crew on the Air Baltic aircraft, where it was exposed to per thousand far beyond the permitted limit, was a warning, as we see it, that rules and procedures for testing aircraft personnel need to be improved. It can't be like that, as it was in this case, that it's left to the coincidences whether or not the prom will be discovered before a flight or not. Today, the regulatory procedures for this type of control are lacking. In the case of August last year at Gardermoen, a hotel staff member discovered that the flight crew was affected by the drug, and notified the authorities. Today's system, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, depends too much on tips from the audience or through too rare and random police controls. In this case, the police could indicate that two-three checks were carried out on the Gardermoen every year. It was the usual frequency of the number of checks. Today’s system is therefore too vulnerable and, in the view of the Christian People’s Party, stricter regulation with better control procedures should be implemented. Then we're going to be glad that aviation in Norway, in general, seems to be characterised by high security. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the August 2015 incident, in which four out of five of the personnel on the particular Air Baltic aircraft were partly heavily intoxicated, is a serious reminder that work on zero tolerance for alcohol abuse and in so far as abuse of other drugs cannot be taken for granted. In the letter of reply to the Committee, the Council of State refers to the Air Safety Authority, which estimates that accidents on passenger aircraft may occur on a global basis every two or three years due to alcohol or medication. Based on surveys and statistics on occurrence among American flight crew members, as well as on the relationship between different types of drugs among Norwegian drivers, the Air Safety Authority is of the opinion that there may be grounds to believe that drug abuse among crew members also poses, as they say, a certain safety risk in our country. It is therefore interesting to note that the mandatory pre-flight drug testing of crew members is one of the measures already under consideration by the Air Safety Authority and that it is most appropriate to introduce it on passenger aircraft. I believe that it is correct and understandable that passenger flights must be prioritised. It is on passenger aircraft that the crew is responsible for most people, e.g. compared to aeroplanes carrying only goods. In the short term, this type of testing appears to be easiest to perform using an alcometer breath test. Such a test could be carried out either by safety personnel or by individual carriers, but in order to achieve this, regulatory changes are required. The undersigned is therefore very surprised that the Government Parties in this case do not wish to participate in the proposal to ask the Government to consider changes in the rules which ensure that pilot and cabin crew per million checks are implemented in the pre-flight procedures. The majority decided in spring 2015 to ask the government to submit proposals for the introduction of alcolocks and how this can best be phased in on-road vehicles operating passenger transport for remuneration. Several bus companies have already implemented alcolocks in parts of the bus park. It is therefore high time that the aviation industry also introduced alcotests for its pilots and cabin crew before each flight. Samples from the police are not sufficient. It cannot be gambled with the safety of passengers. Then I notice that the case rapporteur Michaelsen today in his article talks about the many checkpoints before one takes the plane. It is in the correct sense of the word not some formal control posts, but meeting points with other people. Had it been the case that there had been formal checkpoints, the proposal would not have been necessary today. It is therefore necessary that legal barriers are put in place to ensure routine control and not that this is done only through random and very rare controls, such as today. This is about our safety as air passengers. Based on your knowledge today, the easiest way to do this seems to be through the use of alcometers. The most important thing is that regular checks are carried out. I am pleased that an overall committee is asking the government to raise this issue at international level. It is a strength that one can stand together internationally in ensuring zero tolerance for alcohol abuse in aviation. This is true in the Nordic countries as well as in Europe. The proposal that we have with the Workers' Party has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e917	I would like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party, which has raised this matter, which means that we are having a debate on this today. Security also in aviation is incredibly important. It's important that people feel safe. Driving in a drug-induced state is not acceptable, whether we are talking about air, land or sea. There must be a level of safety in place that allows us to feel sure that both pilots and cabin crew are not addicted. Then you can see that changes in international aviation legislation can be difficult to get in place, but I think Norway should sit in the driver's seat to make sure that we get to such changes. I think it is very positive that the committee has found together in a large consensus on the process further. That's a good thing. Then I very much agree with the case rapporteur, who points out that there are a number of other issues that may be important for aviation safety, both drugs other than alcohol, that pilots and cabin crew are tired, and other things that can make you be affected by life as a whole when it comes to transporting people. That's an important clarification. It's important that we also look at this further. Having said that, I think that there has been a good deal of consideration in the committee, and that it is right that we do the steps that have been put forward here. The central party is going to support the minority proposal, because we believe that this too is an important step in the process. I remind you that the proposal was amended to say that ‘you are asking the government to consider changes in the rules’. I think it's important that the government gives you the opportunity to see what it can be, how you can do it, and that the Stortinge gets it back at a later time, where you can put it into a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e933	Flight shall be safe. In general, it shall be safe to travel on the infrastructure of this country. The Air Baltic case was a reminder to us that the work of zero tolerance against intoxication in traffic never ends. One may have many programs, one may have many controls, but sometimes there are people who don't care. This is precisely why it is important that we have good systems, so that the chance of getting away from it becomes minimal, and in aviation and other vessels where one transports other people, this is particularly important. As soon as this matter began to roll, we got into it. We gave the Air Safety Authority a mission both to look at the extent of drugs in our society and to consider different responses. It is a work that is now in progress, and I think it is natural that we wait until the reports are available before we go through the recommendations and come to the Stortinget with proposals for decisions. So this isn't about fighting for or against if you're going to do anything, but it's about choosing the tools that professionals also think will produce, and not just drawing conclusions in order to be able to act. Compulsory drug testing is one of the measures considered by supervision. At the same time, a lot of work is also being done at European level, because we are not the only country that has reacted to this event and that has safety in the air as an important wish and goal. EASA has recommended to work on establishing a pan-European regulatory framework for sporadic drug testing, and it is natural that we continue to work on that track. In addition, monitoring has indicated that there is a challenge with other drugs. This is something we see from car traffic, that it is one thing to take those who are affected by promille, but that tablets, drugs and not least fatigue, or fatigue, are other things that can be at least as risky and that we have to include in the same sling. This is also something that the supervision looks at and works with. There are different programmes today, such as psychomotor testing, which may reveal impairment due to different causes. But the supervision, as I wrote in the letter to the committee, has not yet seen whether this is something that you have been verified and certified for use in aviation, but this is of course something that a worker does. When the recommendations and assessments from both EASA, other EU bodies and from our own aviation oversight are available, it is natural for us to keep these together and to consult the Stortinget again to see what to do. I do not experience in this debate – despite the fact that there are proposals from both the majority and the minority – that we disagree on where we want to. It's only about which tools to use, if we're going to let the professionals make a recommendation before the Storting concludes. I believe that already today the culture is, as I experience it – in the airlines, in Avinor, at the airports that I have been and visited – very clearly that alcohol is not accepted. And as Michaelsen's representative said, even if you don't have all this legalized, there's already a lot of meeting points for an airliner, into an airport, out to an airplane, that makes things manifest. And it's just these meeting points that make it finally catch up. But we can agree: Are we sure that this is good enough? No, we're not, and that's why we're doing this job. And I'm going to do my job to make sure we get an even safer aviation in Norway. Fortunately, we have good results over time. At the same time, the tragic accident with a mail plane just days ago is a reminder that aviation is also going wrong, and we're going to see what we can learn from it. The Air Baltic case was a reminder of the drug side, and that's why we're already working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e953	I record that we agree very much that this is an important matter. Of course, because everyone understands the consequences if you were to be unhappy and something happened. I am also pleased that this has been taken into account, and that it is working on it, but I have a question about the job that is being done now. This event happened early in the fall, and the minister said that it was taken immediately, and that one would come to the Stortinget – without saying in what way. There are two questions in this regard: When can the Storting expect to start concluding on measures, and in what way will he possibly include the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e960	I can't now give a date or a month for that, because I have to see when the Air Safety Authority and EASA come up with their recommendations, so we have something to process and present to the Stortinget. But I'll promise that when those things are on my table, I won't be late to turn around and see what we can do with it. What's the appropriate way? It could be that we bring it as part of, for example, State budget proposal or revised. We might come up with it as a matter of our own. We might come up with it in another case. That's what makes Storting able to treat it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e967	I am very pleased that the Council of State is stating that this is an important matter, which he wants to follow up when the recommendations come from the Air Safety Authority, and that he was early out and asked them to do a job after the event last August. Today, the Stortinget invites to adopt a proposal requiring Norway to take a leading role internationally in ensuring zero tolerance for alcohol abuse in aviation. Then I would like to ask about the following: How does the Council of State see that Norway can take such a position in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e974	One of the ways is to give particular attention to this issue to the Air Safety Authority when they work with their sister supervision in other countries and work towards the EU system. Another way is that, from a political point of view, we deal with this when we meet our colleagues in other countries, individually or in the EU forums, just to discuss the issue. In a few weeks, both I and my State Secretary are going to Amsterdam to discuss it at an aviation conference. We also hope to have a meeting with the Dutch Government to discuss issues of transport in general, and this will be one of the issues I can then address with the Council of State down there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e983	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e999	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1006	Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative proposing to draw up the transport plan of a child. Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. It is essentially an overall committee which endorses the broad lines of the proposal. The Committee considers that the needs of children should be weighed heavily by the design of future transport solutions and that the representatives in this proposal highlight important transport policy considerations. The consideration of children and young people is important in social planning, and there are particular reasons why the framework conditions for children in the transport system should have a specific mention in the future in the formulation of transport policy. The Committee therefore supports the views of the proposers on the needs of children in their everyday transport, such as safe schooling and safe zones, safe transport, safe holding places, etc. We know that the focus has been on road safety in many places, which has produced positive results by decreasing accident rates. The Committee would therefore highlight the good work done to reduce the number of road accidents. In 1970, the proportion of traffic deaths among the 0–15 age group was 8 pst. In 2010, the proportion was reduced to 3 pst. This good development with fewer traffic-killed children and young people continues, but losing someone in a traffic accident is terribly bad, and as a society we have to do what we can to prevent it from happening to our children. To this end, the Committee supports the intention of the proposers to bring together the list of solutions which benefit the road users group children and young people, with their own contribution to the transport plan, and, in this context, supports the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked, in preparing its national transport plan, to bring together the details of solutions for the road users’ group children and young people in a separate chapter in the form of a transport plan for their own children in order to strengthen the integrity of the national transport plan.’ The Committee considers that national authorities should impose strict requirements on themselves in the work on the national transport plan. It is therefore natural that the plan integrates children and young people as safely as possible on their school roads, etc. The Committee considers that a number of measures are highlighted in the proposal which will be important in the work on Barna’s transport plan. This concerns issues such as safe schooling, safe school areas, safe transport, safe holding places, and not least the prevention aspect. It is important that work on this transport plan does not go at the expense of all other good work done in the transport field. As I said, there is an overall committee in this case, except in the case of the proposal mentioned on page 2 of the vote, to mark buses operating school transport with their own signs. There has been an incursion in which an error has occurred in the case. It is not correct that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left support this. It's only supposed to be a Christian People's Party. With that, I recommend the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1033	I would like to start by thanking the Christian People's Party and the proposers with a very good and important proposal for a representative. In December 2015 went towards becoming the first year when no children under the age of 10 were killed in traffic. But December 15th went wrong in the Waksdal in Hordaland. A six-year-old on his way home from the end of Christmas slipped on the ice, fell down a staircase and landed under a trailer that came running past, and unfortunately died. Fortunately, although the number of fatalities in traffic is falling, it is a significant political task both to improve and strengthen efforts to increase road safety for all road users, especially for children and young people. It is very serious and sad that accidents with soft road users are increasing. This requires concrete action and awareness in all planning at all levels, including in one of the main documents of the transport sector: the national transport plan. It is the task of the EEAS to contribute to ensuring the needs of children in transport everyday, whether it is a safe school road, safe zones, safe transport, safe holding places or appropriate traffic training. Children and young people are not holders of rights in a formal sense. They are not notified as landowners or neighbours, and they do not have formal opportunities to address their requirements in transport planning. They also have no financial resources, and the younger the children, the more dependent they are on adults caring for their needs. The concerns of children and young people and the design of society and transport systems are fundamental, and this is also recognised as a very serious consideration in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 3. Therefore, the Workers’ Party considers it appropriate to pay particular attention to precisely the group of children and young people working on a new national transport plan and to include the transport plan of their own children as an integral part of the national transport plan. How children grow up is crucial to their ability to grow up safely, to develop motorically and to good health. There is a link between transport, land and road safety policies and this integration must take place at both local, regional and national levels. For example, there are already clear requirements in the Planning and Building Act to strengthen the consideration of children and young people in general planning and in individual construction measures. It is also natural that this should be followed up in the work of the national transport plan, without such action being at the expense of all the other good work done for this group, such as: national road safety plan. Transport systems and infrastructure must take good care of children and young people. For this reason, the Workers' Party, as well as the rest of the Committee, believes that the needs of children must be weighed heavily when designing the transport system of the future. Society needs to see, even more so than at present, the traffic challenges with children’s eyes. The Labour Party is therefore proud to be involved and also to support the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1052	I would also like to thank the proposers for focusing on an important topic. Children and young people represent our future, and we must have as our starting point that they should be able to travel safely in traffic. We have no one to lose. National transport plan is a comprehensive document covering all modes and solutions of transport and must take account of travellers in all stages of life and with different needs. Therefore, it is important that the national transport plan is an integrated document that puts this in context and has an overall perspective. Nevertheless, we will support the proposers in that it is important to raise the children and young people group, and that this is given special attention when designing a new national transport plan – not in order to distort other good measures for other groups, but in order to draw more attention to how we can facilitate the transport system for children and young people. In this context, priority is often given to measures for increased road safety, safe schooling and road user training. These are measures which are, in any case, an important part of the national transport plan. By bringing together the review of solutions for the road users’ group of children and young people in a separate chapter, these measures will be given increased attention and it will be easier to get an overview of the overall use of the instruments against this group of road users. Children in particular, but also young people, are particularly vulnerable to traffic. For children, there is a new environment in which they are not safe, and it requires that the transport system takes particular account of these road users. At the same time, it is worth noting that both county and municipality authorities have a significant responsibility for measures aimed at children and young people. Not all of these measures will be mentioned in the national transport plan, and in this way a separate chapter – the transport plan of a separate child – will not provide a complete overview of the national transport plan. For example, the spatial planning of municipalities is an important tool for ensuring a safe school path for children and young people. It is important where the school is located and how residential areas are designed through the local regulatory processes. Another important area is public transport, which is a municipal responsibility. A well-developed public network, and good solutions for walking and cycling, can provide many children with a safer school path and a good offer for leisure travel. In the context of setting up urban environment agreements and collective and bicycle reward schemes, this will have its legal place in the national transport plan. Collective solutions in other parts of the country and in smaller cities will not be affected in the same way. These are a few examples of important actions that will lie outside the national transport plan and as such do not form part of a separate chapter on children and young people. It is important to note that a separate reference does not provide a complete overview of measures for children and young people, but is a compilation of the measures set out in the National Transport Plan. We support the proposal for decisions as set out in the unanimous opinion of the Committee and hope that it will give increased attention to measures and solutions for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1065	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to express my great pleasure at the fact that a joint committee today is presenting proposals for the Storting to adopt Barna's transport plan. I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the representatives of the other parties in the Committee for having managed to concentrate on this important measure to ensure the child perspective in the design of the future transport system. The transport plan of children shall ensure the safety of children and young people in the design of future transport plans. What is the point and the background is that we get a transport system in the future that can take care of young people even better than today. Safe parenting requires that children’s needs weigh heavily in the development of future transport solutions. All children have the right to a safe school path. The duty to go to school must be followed by a right to get to and from school safely. Today, children, cyclists, wheelchair users and people with baby carriages travel in many places in the same field as heavy traffic, cars and tractors. It's not acceptable. There is a need for a broad review of the challenges and concrete measures that can make everyday life safer and safer for children and young people travelling on the road. More planning resources and more money are needed for investment. Rehabilitation of walking and cycling routes along the school roads is important for the safety of children and is also beneficial to the rest of the population. Walk and cycle roads must be planned and built in parallel with new road installations. Operation and maintenance of pavements and routes must also be prioritised in line with the maintenance of the other road network. Several safe crossing points for the development of over- and underpass are important measures that should be given priority in order to ensure safe movement. Too many parents and children experience that there are road-hazardous areas around the schools. Therefore, many unfortunately choose to drive their children to school instead of letting their children go. According to the 2013–2014 Travel Practice Survey, it is 61 pst. of children and young people who go to school or bike, while the objective is 80 pst. The establishment of safe zones, or what some call ‘heart zones’, with, for example, a speed limit of 30 km/h around school, is a type of measure that can help make the school’s neighbourhood safer for children and for all vulnerable road users. Accidents often occur when bus boarding and disembarking, we are familiar with. School transport stations must therefore be designed so that students do not cross the road as far as possible or have a level-free route. The control of safety belt use and the correct safety of children in cars must be intensified. It is equally important that the purchasers of transport services impose high-security requirements on vehicles. Therefore, it may be a good and appropriate measure for buses operating school transport to be clearly marked with their own signs at the back and on the sides, which can be submitted as a tendering requirement. Other relevant measures will include the development of walking and cycling routes, more safe crossing points, light regulation of dangerous crossings and more frequent checks on safety belts and child restraints in cars. Although concrete physical measures are important, this type of action will always have to be followed up with preventive action, which can contribute to safe early-age traffic behaviour. Systematic traffic training in schools and kindergartens is a very important part of prevention, and all schools should therefore set up a road traffic training plan in their neighbourhood. The Storting Communication on the National Transport Plan represents the government’s proposal for a strategy for transport policy. With a planning period of 10 years and revised every 4 years, the national transport plan is the most appropriate policy document today to see the different actions in a context and in a longer time horizon. In the national transport plan for the period 2014–2023, concrete actions related to children and young people were little launched. The transport plan of children, as a separate chapter of the national transport plan, will help to strengthen the child’s perspective, and thus also the fullness of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1086	The centre agrees with the proposers that children and young people must have a special focus on transport planning. We have no one to lose, and we have to plan for security. Other factors that are also important are ensuring safe growth, good motor development and good health for children and young people. Too many people are transported to school instead of being able to go safely to school. We need the little exercise it's going to and from our workplace, whether we're young or old. I would also like us to have managed to see transport in a life-cycle perspective. There are many people in traffic, both driving and walking — in different phases of life. It is important that we think about safety for all people regardless of age, regardless of disability – to mention something. National transport plan is the document in which the whole is made visible. Therefore, it is important that the children and young people group be included as a separate chapter. Of course, it should not replace anything, but as an addition to and a strengthening of the work done for children and young people in many areas. I would like to thank both the proposers for promoting the proposal, and the Committee for working together towards a common position, where not least the case rapporteur deserves a real thank you for having worked well to piece together what we are going to adopt today, for something that everyone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1099	Traffic safety and the work on it is one of the most important things we do. I feel that for many, many years, we have worked well together on this. The results look one at the statistics. In 2013, at the turn of government, 187 people were killed by traffic. In 2015, it was 125. The positive development, however, is not something that can hide that there are 125 of our fellow human beings who have lost their lives. The work of getting down to 0 will be hard, it will take time, but it's important that we constantly focus on it. From experience, we also know that suddenly things happen, and evolution goes in a different direction. That's not all we control. It is also a reminder that this work will never end. Traffic safety is important for all groups that travel in society, all individuals, regardless of age, function, where one lives and what one does. But children are particularly vulnerable, both because they have a poorer view of the traffic around them and because they don't like to think equally far in everything they do. It's quick for kids to jump out of the way if a ball goes in that direction. These are factors that require special care for children when we design our ways, when we design our communities, our urban communities, in every way. This isn't just about the pavements and teaching people to cross the road on the pedestrian crossing. There might as well be a residential area where one is used to being able to walk in the street, because there is almost never traffic, and therefore behaves differently from what one does when one in an urban area gets good advice to wait until one sees a green man on the traffic lights. These are things we have to bring with us in the job we do, and we have to make everyone aware of it: city planners, the Road Service, schools, parents and children. I think it's good that the Storting makes the decisions they're making now, so that in every way we commit ourselves to this becoming a separate theme in the national transport plan. So I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs and to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and I would like to thank the rapporteur. When we do this job, I also think it is important that this is not going to happen in the Directorate of Roads, in the Ministry of Transport and finally in the Stortinget. We should get out and make sure that we get a broad commitment, and we know that there are a lot of organisations out there that already have an commitment. In the year that has passed, we know that Safety Traffic has got a lot of money from the state to do its work. They're reaching out to children. We have, through the grant scheme that we administer, granted 0.5 million. kr to an organisation called All children's bikes, to get more children to experience what it's like to ride to school – because in some schools there are parental committees that warn children against cycling, simply because one feels it's too dangerous. Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund, NLF, has had its campaign to get safe roads together, which has also received financial support from the aid scheme – just to get out, meet children and teach them how to deal with heavy transport. What should be one of the goals we set ourselves is that we also talk to the KS and look at how all the good initiatives that happen separately can be brought together more coordinated, so that all schools across the country have a school start-up scheme – or rather, when the time of darkness comes – so that we don't risk any places getting a good deal while others don't. That's the one initiative I'm going to take, in addition to the work that a sketch here. The other thing that I think we should also do is cross-political, is that we can make contact with the school system from the government and also the kindergarten system, invite to a common one, we should call it, hard work and show that we are going to make Barna's transport plan as part of the national transport plan, challenge them to tell a little about their local conditions – city, country, north, south, east, west; it's a lot of dark time somewhere; other places don't have the same problem – and ask them to come up with their suggestions on what politicians can do when we're working out the Barna transport plan. Once we've done that job, we can go out a few months later, distribute it to us to show that here's not party politics, but a common effort, and visit some of the schools and kindergartens that say they've made their recordings – others can send them right to us. Then we get ideas and opinions from them that we're now trying to help in traffic. I hope that's a virtue we can do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1125	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1141	We've got a replay of a revolution in Norway that's getting a little tired, which, for most people in the community or in smaller cities, means closure or aggregation. The word 'robust' has become a tiring word, and that's enough because it is used a little too often about too much and as an answer in itself to too many difficult and important questions about changes in our society, especially in our smaller communities. The reason why a person in particular has spoken more in recent years and suggested additional measures to strengthen this robustness may be that some services and services in the country are not good enough. But is it just difor? Merging some services can be a tool for better services, but certainly not always. With today's government, I get the impression that aggregation is more often the goal than the instrument. I am afraid that we all think a little too often that we move on faceless bureaucrats when services or functions are merged or centralised. For all things – the working party is not against all the changes, but we believe that the centralizer of the government, as he is now, is well strong. Maybe we also have something to recognize in the after-school clock. I don't think that all the centralizing grips, which are done with our voices up through the years, have necessarily always led to better services. We can clearly make improvements. For example, I believe that health south-east as a business has become too large, and I am concerned about the size of several directorates. For smaller communities, such as: My municipality of residence, Tokke, is the closure of jobs very seriously. In the last few months, we've been in a difficult and worrying situation where state power in the eastern and western regions is going to merge, and an assessment is to merge the operational centres. This could mean that my home location, the valley, could lose a lot of jobs by moving these out. This is not decided politically, but I'm afraid that this is unfortunately a sign in time, or a consequence of a trend that is blessed by today's government. Everything should be bigger, and it should be robust. For the Notodden in Telemark, an average urban population, it would be serious if one lost the right to property, as the Ministry of Justice would actually do. It would mean that we lost competence jobs. There would be a less accessible judicial body for users, and the Notodden would clearly become a less attractive city and region for lawyers and other relevant professional groups. I'm happy to stop this. I'm glad that the Right Party and the Advance Party turned in that case. When you remove a workspace or a function from a location, it has a consequence. Of course, it's not always negative. I mean, for example. We have much more intensive cooperation between municipalities when it comes to police services, as long as the public experience a better supply, and if you can organise yourself in a better way, so that the funds are used better and the services are better, we are positive to it. But there is too much sensitivity and vision in many of the so-called centralisation debates. They're too little knowledge-based, on both sides often, to say it like this. The last time in the debate on the structure of District Courts, which was in the Committee on Justice, it was claimed from the largest district courts that they were better qualitatively than the small ones, without any evidence to support them, without having knowledge-based evidence that this is the case. In other debates, there may be allegations that local knowledge is always decisive. Of course it's not like that either. Quality in services is the most important thing, but what is quality? I have the impression that national policies often do not take time to make good enough representations or mappings until some changes are made. The trade force might be greater than the will to do things thoroughly. I often think that debates are too much based on vision. I mean, everyone, from all the political parties, has to breathe a little bit, take a walk in an air balloon and look out over our country and think a little bit about how we want Norway to look in 10, 20, 50 or 100 years. We are privileged here to rely on the trust of our different states and to participate in social planning. I would like to see people living in the countryside, towns, towns and cities. Urbanization is happening, and we can't bind people with rope to the countryside, but I don't think we need it if we can do anything other than just maintain. We must also create growth. We, who represent parts of District Norway, know that we are largely in a fight to maintain. We need to develop more centers of the country and avoid some cities becoming super powerful, and that everything is going there. A better and smoother distribution of government workplaces will affect the build-up pattern. I think we all, in humility, have to get better and better at seeing things in an actual context. What does it mean for a state or region that a company combines many services, that some companies fail, that there is also no growth in the number of jobs in the private sector, or that there is no addition of new government tasks? It's clear it's very demanding and negative for a country or a region. A competence environment, a qualitatively good competence environment – what is it? In the debates on both co-location and centralisation, it is often said that it is important to achieve a better and more robust professional and competence environment. [[!]] I think there are several services where you can get better at working with others. I also think it has something to say about accepting 40 births a year, or about accepting 300 births a year. I think it has something to say that someone else has to discuss issues with. But the last one might not be that demanding in 2016. As a district court judge from the West said in the fall when we discussed the court structure of the Justice Committee: She had both telephone, e-mail and Skype. We've never been more technologically capable than now, and the possibilities for the decentralization of many more, both government functions and services, may never have been better. We are all too smart, more efficient and qualitatively good solutions. I think everyone thinks it's a good idea that we don't all spend time doing the same things. Similarly, it is important that when someone finds a good solution, it is spread to other units. We still have a lot to pick up. We see it in the police. We see it in Nav, and we see it in a wide range of other agencies and companies. But the solution is not to move all the developments into a directorate in Oslo, to put it at the head. Instead, a starting point should be the places where everything is good, and building up national competences to spread it around. It could provide good quality, good synergies, and provide jobs around the country. We have a good example of this if you see, for example: at the children's home in Tromsø or Arena Bioenergy Inland. The government itself has a goal: the government will ensure that, in the future, there will be a distribution of government jobs to help develop robust labour markets in all parts of the country. The measures are as follows: ‘The State localisation policy shall, in the follow-up to these guidelines, contribute to — a distribution of state jobs that contribute to the development of robust labour markets in all parts of the country — the location of government service production, which ensures, as far as possible, good access for the population of all parts of the country to state services — that new and relocated state enterprises are mainly located outside Oslo — that cost-effectiveness and efficient task-solving are included in the assessment of localisation options’. Then my point and intention with the interpellation is both to ask the Council of State and to have a debate on what the Council of State is doing. What does he put ‘in robust labour markets in all parts of the country’, and what concrete plan does the Council of State and the Government have in order to ensure this distribution and in a better way than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1191	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing the theme of district and regional policy with a focus on the location of state jobs. I can also start by saying that I agree with several of the elements that the interpellant takes up in its interpellation. Norway has viable cities, agglomerations and scattered areas in all parts of the country. Here we differ from many European countries. I mean, it's a priority. We succeed in Norway, and we live all over the country. There are two main explanations of that. Firstly, we have a basis for value creation across the country, including: due to rich natural resources. Secondly, we have a conscious regional and regional policy. Throughout history, natural resources have provided the basis for value creation, employment and housing. That's still the way it is, and we're going to build on it. Success in North Norway is just one example. While large parts of the South-West now experience declines and increasing unemployment, the unemployment rate has fallen to the north. A diverse and high-growth business contributes to new jobs and increasing tax revenues. Strong investment in infrastructure shortens the path to markets and increases labour markets. We often say that Norway is in transition, and that is true. The economic growth we've seen in the last decades is about to slow down. Oil prices are more than halved. A lot of businesses downgrade. Others go bankrupt. It affects many families and communities. Climate challenges also require new solutions. There is a broad consensus that Norway is facing a necessary transition in order to secure jobs and ensure well-being and to meet climate challenges. A good rural and regional policy is part of the answer. The government has launched a number of reforms in the public sector. This is what we do — not to change Norway, but because Norway has changed. To doubt structures from the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s is not a response to the challenges we face in the decades to come. The reforms will provide citizens with a better offer where they live, now and in the future. The growth of state jobs, which has come in and around the largest cities, is a trend that began in the 1990s. This is largely due to the shift of government tasks from the districts to the major cities underpinned by the interpellant, but growth in existing state units. The growth has therefore come where large government units are located. There has been particularly high growth in universities and colleges, but also in justice and commerce. The government works actively for viable cities, agglomerations and scattered areas in all parts of the country. It is primarily private enterprises that can over time ensure value creation, jobs and housing. Therefore, the government is focusing on better infrastructure, competence, innovation and growth-promoting tax reductions. Government jobs are also important, including: because they are important skills jobs in local and regional labour markets. Government jobs contribute to a greater base of competence in labour markets, with more recruitment opportunities for businesses and more career opportunities for workers. The government has therefore improved and clarified the guidelines for the location of state jobs and the production of government services. The general rule for setting up new state activities is that at least three alternative sites should be considered. Furthermore, emphasis shall be placed on localisation in regional centres, where the activities have the greatest potential to contribute to the local provision of jobs. In the case of relocation or structural changes, the possibilities of existing regional structure shall be assessed. One example is the Food Authority, which reduces the number of administrative levels and regions, among others. chose to delete the professional community in Sortland with a new regional office for North Norway. The government has also decided to locate the new election directorate of Tønsberg, the tax administration subject of Stavanger, the rules council of Hönefoss, the national health complaint body of Bergen and to create new jobs associated with the Consumer Council in Tromsø. In addition, the government has decided to add the new road company to the Kristiansand region, a new National IT centre for Norwegian hospitals to Bergen and to establish Hospital Building HF with base in Trondheim. This will build on the strong environments of competence already in these areas. So far, this means that more than 300 jobs have been moved out or decided to be established outside Oslo — so far. For comparison, the number in the last red-green government period was only 200. A good example of building a strong professional environment over time can be found at Røros. After the Stortinget decided to set up its own cultural memory fund in 2002, then Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, decided to set up the fund at Røros. From the very beginning, with an organisation consisting only of the Executive Director in 2003, the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund is now composed of 17 employees. Together with other environments, there are now broad competences in cultural memory protection and building protection at Røros, which are also important for the rest of the country. The State activity contributes to Røros being an attractive and vibrant place, such as: is the basis of world heritage status and of trade and tourism in Røros. Over time, good professional and productive environments will be the best means of ensuring employment, no matter where you live in the country. This is the core when we talk about – call it – robust or diverse labour markets. A dynamic and varied business life is a prerequisite. That is why we are improving the framework conditions for those who want to create new jobs. Strong business environments also require environments of competence. We equip Norway for the future by raising the quality of knowledge and by investing in research and innovation. We focus more on what creates growth and development. That is why we have also chosen to turn some of the regional policy efforts into investments in county roads and other infrastructure. It increases labour markets and shortens the path to the market. At the same time, we focus on regional policy instruments and target them more towards business and employment. Within these framework conditions, there will be no contradiction between city and country. On the contrary, there will be mutual dependence between different parts of the country. I believe that the districts and cities together can and must do each other good. The score must be an interaction between cities of different sizes and districts, which facilitate value creation, jobs and attractive communities throughout the country. The aim is to exploit opportunities wherever people and resources are available, including in the districts. Cities throughout the country have an important role to play in producing services for residents and businesses, in the city and in the surrounding area. The interaction between the city and the district can be illustrated by the fact that it is easier for a farm on the north coast to acquire a new bank than for a new bank to acquire a new holding. Early in 2017, I will present a communication to the Stortinget on a policy for sustainable cities and strong districts. It's a necessary grip, just to strengthen all parts of the country. We want policies for both larger and smaller cities and cities, as well as their surrounding areas, which together provide strong regions, a policy adapted to local and regional conditions throughout the country, a policy that looks more at coherence than at differences. This communication concerns all parts of the country, and for me, it is important to have a process that allows the whole country to come up with. We have therefore set up an open process of recording meetings with companies, with municipalities, with county municipalities, with academia and our own websites where both business, knowledge environments, politicians and others can make their contributions. The point is that we need to develop a policy that brings about the interaction between cities and districts. We must ensure growth in private value creation. Enterprises and jobs provide the basis for housing, of course in an interaction with state jobs, which contribute to a more diverse working life across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1221	I thank you for your reply from the Council of State. I'm probably a little uncertain about whether we put the same meaning into what it means to have a conscious district policy, and I thought maybe there was little recognition of what kind of challenges we're facing in those parts of the country that really experience too much centralization. But we can come back to that in the debate. I agree with the Council of State that we should not doubt old structures from the 1950s, and in the Labour Party we are constructive in this way. I have, among other things: In the agreement on police reform, all the parties to the Stortinget were certain that we would have to have fewer police districts, for example. But even if the state direction lines say that one, for example: Always consider the zero option, so that you do not always feel that it is done. As an example, and now it might be a bit arduous example, but the last time we evaluated the structure of the district court in the fall, one saw that there were far too bad processes, thin mappings, so to speak, "from-quare mappings", and assessments that were not in the style of what to do. A little bit of my point is, and it might be a self-recognition from the Workers' Party, that we need to be better able to base suggestions for changes on documented knowledge and good distribution, because often it's probably the individual's eagerness to move things that get a little bit too strong. So maybe we also see a little bit different about what is decentralization. It is very good that much goes outside Oslo – otherwise it would not be so much of the country. But it's clear that Trondheim and Bergen are also quite big cities, and I have a concern that in the different regions of the country there will be one center that attracts everything – that we're getting too bad to spread it out into the regions and the counties. It was a little bit about cultural memory protection, and there I have an example. When it comes to cultural policy, it is worrying that more and more cultural policy ends up in the Culture Council because the Culture Council is in Oslo. And we, who are not from here, know that things from here don't always benefit the whole country. I want to stress that from all sides we have to get better and better at pointing out that things have to go out. But everything isn't black, and there's a lot that's still being decentralized. I just hope and want us to be even better at seeing the whole picture, and what kind of consequences does it have? for a state such as Telemark - quite randomly chosen - that may lose a lot of government jobs while losing a lot of business. It does something about the attractiveness of a region, and we must have a high political awareness of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1241	I understand the concern that many people feel, especially when they get a combination of jobs in both the public and private sectors. But the question is a little bit how we deal with this. I now come from a meeting with all the country's county rapporteurs. My clear message to them is that we can now together develop a strong regional level that can contribute to decentralisation and to good regional development in all parts of the country. You can choose to look at it so that either we now have to stick to what we have, or you can say that now we take a leadership responsibility in our region. Then we develop it, make it attractive for the creation of private jobs, make it attractive for the location of state jobs – I believe in the latest. I have great faith that we will be able to take care of the strong value in Norway, namely that we have a country where people live in small and large places all over the country. But we don't achieve it by just sitting and waiting for everything to be as it was – I don't understand the interpellant there either. I think some of the basics, especially in district policy, must be that natural resources are located in the districts. It's a fantastic starting point, because with the natural resources, with the value creation we get, jobs and housing are created. It has to be the basics. Then I fully agree that state jobs and skills jobs contribute to strengthening the labour markets, and this contributes to a more diverse business life. Of course, this is not black and white, but it is nevertheless a reality that in the first two years we have managed to move or establish more state jobs than was achieved throughout the previous four-year period. It's over 300 now, against just 200 in the last four years. Then you could say that it's not enough either, but it's still a direction, and it's a consequence, among other things. the establishment of the new guidelines, which contribute – and I think that is important – to a clear awareness of how to deal with the creation of state jobs. But here we must ensure an interaction between state and local authorities and strong regions. It's, I think, a window now to achieve balanced development, get strong regions, stronger municipalities, that enables us to provide people with good services where they live, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1248	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Vågslid, for addressing a very important issue, which concerns the whole country. We also have district municipalities in Eastfold, especially the municipalities along the Swedish border are more or less clean district municipalities, with the challenges and opportunities it offers. I even live in one of them, Marker Municipality, so I'm a little familiar with what reality there might look like. Centralization is not a good thing in itself. Even if someone later thinks and believes that it is, it probably isn't. Centralisation is a challenge if we still believe it is important to use the whole country. For my own part, there is no doubt that we are well served to ensure that we have activity and housing around the country. With an active district policy, it is fully possible to ensure that the development of economic activity and housing becomes so that we can actually use all our resources — in agriculture, in small and medium-sized industrial and manufacturing enterprises and, of course, in service industries, not to forget the experience industries, for example. hunting and fishing. Here, district municipalities in Norway have great opportunities. That we have to have so-called robust solutions such as the ability to ensure overall development, there's no big disagreement about, but if it's the right medicine that's being prescribed now, I'm more uncertain about. We see that regional development funds across the country are being cut sharply. Municipalities no longer have the economy to enable them to drive efficient industrial development and local development along with private actors. The ability of municipalities to run such development projects together with local business is a strength. I myself know that many good solutions to industrial development are found in cooperation between local, regional and local authorities, and there are many different projects. There may be simple signs of different things, such as the development of industrial fields, strategic economic development plans that both parties make and undertake to follow, and there may be concrete measures that will help the tourism industry. There are many examples. I believe I can see that this job, in which the municipalities are very important, is becoming a priority in many municipalities because there is a lack of funds. The municipalities have in many ways more than enough to find money for their general operations. The important interreg cooperation, which I got to be involved in operating with Swedish municipalities, in Østfold, is also at risk of collapsing, because now the Norwegian municipalities no longer have the means to be invested in the common pot that an Interreg project actually requires. This is worrying, and it was the regional development funds, among other things. was used for. Therefore, it would make sense in a situation where we see that unemployment is increasing – a little different in the country – that the municipalities and the counties were given more funds to carry out this type of development work together with the private actors. It would be very right to do so, considering that creating the new jobs might be the most important task we have. I will end by asking some questions: How will the Council of State ensure that municipalities and county councils can still be an important driver of economic development? I think we have to realize that the municipalities and the counties have been an important engine, and they are still going to be, but then they have to have opportunities. Does the Council of State see that the cuts made in regional nutrient development funds over the last two years offer less opportunities for important public-private economic development work? What will the Council of State do to strengthen the development of new jobs in districts? Otherwise, I look forward to the announcement by the Council of State here referred to, which is due in 2017. It is going to lead to a very important debate, because it is about putting the whole country into use in a sensible and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1265	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant, and the Council of State for a thorough review of what is now done, and a little about the future thoughts in an important field. We are many who come from smaller places, and who know well the qualities there, whether it's hospitality, great spirit of virtue, amazing hunting opportunities or ski tracks that are like cast in concrete, without having to go in long queues to use them. But we're also many who see that it's challenging in terms of job opportunities, that it's not necessarily the most attractive or the most exciting jobs to move back to, and perhaps often what's a big challenge: finding jobs for both spouses who want to move home or move out of the big city after you finish the studies. And here we are at the core, the important thing: that a political is involved in influencing the development of society. Because it's not necessarily the way people move to cities because they're forced to do it. There are natural reasons why a person does that, and there's not necessarily any negative reasons. But it creates some challenges for the big cities, it creates some challenges in terms of pressures on homes and so on the ground, in order to get space. while creating other challenges for the smaller settlement areas with greater challenges of maintaining the attractiveness of the services they would like to receive. That is why it is important that we make a political distribution. At least I believe that we are creating a better Norway if one also benefits the state jobs around the country and that they are not centralised around the big cities. It's about the spread of power, and there I think the Council of State, and also the government, has been busy building society from below, using as a argument that it's important not to centralize everything, especially around Oslo. But it's also about building skills: building on the regional centres that we already have. For there are strong business clusters and professional competences in many sectors around the country, and it would be appropriate to strengthen these environments also with government jobs. It also means that government jobs can be moved out to places that have relevant competence within that field, and not necessarily just to move out jobs to move them out. Then we see that the number of government employees in the department and the directorate in recent years has increased quite sharply, and that in itself is an argument to also let other parts of the country take part in the growth that has been. Therefore, we are pleased that relocation is part of the mission message that was adopted last year, and which was eaten not least after the pressure from the Left and Christian People's Party. We also agreed to make this an important premise in the municipal proposal and in so far also in the budgetary work and through the negotiations we have had with the government. Therefore, I would also like to point out that there have been successful relocations of state jobs in the past, for example. Maritime Directorate, Coastal Administration, Petroleum Control, National Communications Authority and many more. It can be challenging and heavy processes when you pull them off, but when you look back at it, you see that there are important environments of competence and important skills jobs around the country. That is why it will also be an important requirement of the Christian People's Party to ensure the relocation of jobs in the process of regional reform, as also mentioned by the Council of State. We will follow it up when the message arrives in our own time, and we will also follow it up at the turn of the year, or over next year, when the notification – and the hearing – of major cities and agglomerations in relation to regional development comes. This will also be important in the reorganization of the regional level, on which the Council of State is concerned, when we are going from 19 counties to an unknown number of regions. In this context, the transfer of tasks and power from the department and from the directorate and down to the new regions is important. This may mean that new functions and tasks can be assigned to state functions and that centralisation is unimaginable. Then a new government quarter and jobs are planned for approx. 5,000 employees. I also think that the Council of State should have as an important argument to see if one can move out other state jobs, so that one can use the vacant premises and move out any other places. Victor Norman is a man I have a great sense of, and I have great respect for what he did and carried out. I hope that when this period is over, I can say the same thing about Jan Tore Sanner, that he agreed to move out many important state jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1286	Thank you to the interpellant for travelling a very important debate here in the Chamber today. If we are to meet the Storting's goal of maintaining today's housing pattern, the powerful tool is needed. The government’s political programme states that the government will strengthen its growth potential where it is, while at the same time ensuring the basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country. It is a ambiguous message from the government that I experience that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant follows up with ambiguous answers. The reality is that good living conditions in all parts of the country require job opportunities for people. When the government is so clear that the investment in growth will come where there is already growth, it does not at all contribute to good living conditions in all parts of the country. We in the three government budgets have been responsible for so far, have confirmed the government's complete lack of regional policy ambitions. Resources for regional development over the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation have been cut by more than 800 million over the three years. kr. The government says that its contribution to district policy is increased funding for infrastructure. Unfortunately, it is not delivered in practice. The allocations for broadband bets, which are so important to industry in the districts, are cut. The transport budget follows the premises of the national transport plan, but no more than that. Interpellant focuses on the regional distribution of government jobs. She is quite right that development is going in the wrong direction, since we have seen in recent years that several government tasks have been moved from the districts to the largest cities. It is enough to mention the police reform, the hospital reform, proposals for centralisation of Innovation Norway, the tax office reform and proposals for moving the district courts. Some of this has been stopped, but the centralisation screw has been strongly turned on during this government. The relocation of state jobs from Oslo is a recurring theme, with various governments taking initiatives of no great importance. The Government of Bondevik II and the Government of Stoltenberg II carried out the relocation of approx. 1 000 State jobs each. The paradox is that under the same governments there was a strong increase in government jobs in Oslo. Decisions on the relocation of 2000 jobs were given considerable attention, while the establishment of over 10000 new state jobs in Oslo in the same years occurred silently. On the part of the Centre Party, we have to recognise that our ambitions for better distribution of state jobs were not followed up in a good way either when we put ourselves in government. I don't think it was primarily due to the Senter Party. The status when we last checked was that 29 pst. all government employees are located in Oslo. It's more than twice the city's share of the population in the country. So the difference between the red-green government and our present is not related to the relocation of jobs, but to the centralisation of those who are established around the country. Many municipalities will lose the Länsmannskontoret in the years to come after Stortingen joins the police reform. If the Minister of Health gets what he wants with his proposals in the hospital reform, there will be a large transfer of jobs from local hospitals around the country to hospitals in the larger cities. The provision of services to people in the districts is getting worse and the labour market is weakening the same places as a result of centralisation of government jobs. For many communities, this is a dramatic situation, which is reinforced by the force of centralisation that lies in the community reform. In November 2014, the Government adopted new guidelines on the location of state jobs. They came after the Stortinge had examined proposals for the relocation of state jobs, but ended up with a decision asking the government to promote measures to ensure that new state activities as a general rule were located outside Oslo. It is the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that has provided the guidelines and is responsible for following them up. I do not think the answers the Council of State has given today on how they should be followed up, and the effect they have had is particularly uplifting. The reality is that there have been no guidelines of particular importance. It's sad to register. Deportation from the district municipalities is not due to the fact that more people want to live in a large city. This is due to lack of jobs in the districts, which forces people to move where there are relevant jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1309	I looked forward to this debate initially, because I think the interpellant had a good input into the interpellation. In the light of the last articles, I'm a little surprised that someone here chooses to just look back and not look at the opportunity room. It has never been the case, at least not for the Left, that has been a driver of precisely the decision taken on the relocation of state jobs – and not by the Christian People's Party either – that there has been no intention that it should only be to the largest cities. We have been very clear that this must also apply to the regional centres. One example that the Council of State knows well is the Förde Lottery Authority, which is a good example in this way, and several of us have suggested that we believe that this will be a good part of building up under an ongoing regional reform. And there is no doubt that here one must also look at what is – in order to use the expression of Nils Arne Egg – the «good idea», what is an area good at? In this way, I have called for – to be also a little local – Steinkjer and SLF, which I think are natural in this respect. There are many areas where this is necessary. We can do this not only because it is necessary, but also for – not least – building under state jobs in the new regions, for 65-70 pst. of tomorrow’s youth, and of today’s youth, taking on higher education. Then we also have to meet the challenge this will pose in a new labour market. It is therefore important that we also have a balancing force up to the capital area, not just thinking about the classic old-fashioned district policy where one moves out to the ‘extremely naked island’. Here it is also necessary to see that one needs to have a market, a labour market, which helps to stimulate the potential for growth. That's why I think part of this isn't yesterday's answer, but it's the new answers, and it's not necessary for everyone to have it completely clear, because part of this is definitely about a decentralization. When the previous government set up 10,000 jobs in the capital area, it was a much greater degree of centralization than what we have seen in modern times. It doesn't spend so much time on the previous speeches, but it's also a growth force – which doesn't contribute to creating growth in the districts. I believe that what we adopted on state jobs will stand. Of course, several of us are very interested in being drivers of this. As the representative Ropstad just mentioned – when we get a regional notification, it will be important to bring forward the necessary measures in relation to it. It will be important that areas such as: the area of interpellant origin — she is from Telemark — also has a balanced development in the growth power of state jobs. It's not the key itself, but it'll definitely be involved and contribute to a stimulus in those areas that may not already have that growth force. I think we also have to bring us into the wider picture, without digging us down and seeing it black-and-white in relation to something that one would like to come with. I think we just have to be very clear through the regional notification. I was so lucky to be at a conference the other day where Victor Norman started, where he also told me about the challenges of moving out. I don't think this will come of itself. I think we definitely have to show with a clear will that we want it. We remember when it was last tried, to a large extent, that there will be some counterpowers. But one has to come with counterpowers. I think we're going to succeed in this, and I think it's important to succeed for the country as a whole. That's why I think we have to look at this not only through the big cities, but also through the regional centres. But regional centres need to have a labour market with growth power enough to fill up with state-owned skills jobs, because this is also what is involved in building the whole country. We can't build just parts of the country, we have to build the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1324	We have to build the whole country. That's because there are great values across the country. There are opportunities, there are people, there are good lives and values that it is worth taking care of and developing. Because small things can be very big, and small things can be absolutely crucial for a whole that makes it a good country, and that you have taken advantage of all the opportunities that are there. The centralization goes a little bit more of a sea – there are very strong forces that a rare person needs to hunt. That's what the government is doing. They want to strengthen centralisation and overlook the huge loss they will then receive — both as a country and in many places in the country — by not developing and looking at opportunities in communities across the country. In my own state, travel life grows strongly. It's positive. But I don't think anyone thinks this travel life can live in a vacuum. There must be a functioning community there, there must be people, there must be some who make local food and special experiences, so there's something positive about the travel life project that's there. It is true that state and municipal, public, positions and the network it provides often help balance, secure and provide a basis for other activities around the community. It's incredibly important. Then it's about seeing the consequences if you cut too much in this, centralizing too much – call it efficiency, while in reality it's centralization – and not always getting better professional results, such as the government's struggle to centralize the tax collection, where the rounds of rounds have gone on a click, because it's obviously wrong. These are jobs that are done equally locally. So it's about a lot of things. The government has severely cut regional policy instruments, and there is a great deal of disagreement between them. But one of the symbolic things they've had isn't about tearing up central jobs and moving them out, it's about a big and important district policy bet that the red-green government had done. It's the big record bet on Tynset, which was in the budget when this government took over, as they with a pen stroke removed. There were many areas of competence in a district municipality that showed that it had the competence and the capacity to accept this, where all the departments involved that were to enter supported the proposal that lay there, and showed that it was the best effort, that it was the best professional opportunity to do a new, big and important task. Well, there's a reason to mention that here was a municipality, a community, that had put down $30 million. SEK-40 million. kr to support the state in the effort it had made – so the government and with a pen stroke will remove this, only right after one government council after another had been several rounds and promised that it would be enough. It turned out that that was not true. Now everything is in blue, but the result is that it's going to end up in Trondheim, a place where there are strong environments from before, where the government parties probably have strong networks. This means that one has missed a golden opportunity to get a big stake in an area of Norway that is an outlying one, but where the level of education is very high, and where for many years one has also shown great ability to use modern technology. It's very sad, and it's very critical of the government that they haven't followed up on this, which was potty and there, and which could become a performance project for this government. They could have been credited – I would have accepted it if it had happened that they had taken credit for it, because it is so important. This was a political robbery of the rarest, it was one of the worst district political arrests I've seen any government have taken. It simply shows that you will not get what all the professional authorities say is the best solution – when it is not in the middle of central areas. That is where this government will bet, while SV will bet throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1344	Thank you to the interpellant for giving Stortinget an opportunity to debate important issues. Just as the interpellant said, and to the extent that the Council of State also said in its reply, Norway has done much more than other countries to smooth out social and economic differences and also to create viable communities in all parts of the country. It hasn't come of itself. You could say that you've managed to slow down a development that's inevitable. In the Workers' Party, we believe that we should continue to do so, because only that way can we succeed in using all the country's resources. In the time we're in, and in the time that's ahead of us, it becomes a significant task. It is easy to agree that Norway is responsible for value creation. The regions of Norway have some characteristics. They have their business structures, they have their knowledge environment, which complement each other in a national context, and several of them claim very well internationally. To put it that way, the Council of State said: the values entering the state fund, the export values, are out in the districts. We know how this evolves over decades. Large central municipalities win, while small districts lose in business and housing development. Yet, there are happy exceptions. But the overall picture in Norway is centralisation, i.e. more and more people live and work in the centre and less in the districts. These changes are due to people moving towards the center, and so the birth surpluses are also increasing there and sinking into the periphery. It is clear that this has been the case for decades. What's a little worrying now, and we're going to be very observant from this room, is that we almost get a generation effect. Over the next ten to twenty years, there will be a rather radical change in the age structure of very many of our districts, while the growth rate in Oslo is shifted up yet again. Oslo is now the most important city in Europe. This struggle for the part of the labour that buys houses and seeks kindergarten becomes even tougher for those parts of the country that do not offer the whole spectrum of urban lifestyle and professional diversity to highly educated people. We know this. That's why we also need a powerful policy to meet it. I'm happy to hear that the Council of State has been in the College of Governors. I've been there too. I recommend the Council of State to work more with that college in the future. I look forward to the regional message now in ours. I also look forward to the announced city and district announcement in 2017. It is easy to demonstrate the link between commuting opportunities and regional development. The further away from the centre, the more you are dependent on both good infrastructure, regional planning and an offensive state that also sees the possibility of building a community of competences outside the capital. For the Workers’ Party, the old slogan ‘By and Land, hand in hand’ still applies, but it will not stand in the future without a more radical policy. The reason why we've managed to keep this scan earlier when we've experienced similar breaking times is our ability to organize, our ability to build knowledge and our common will to process the natural resources of the community. I could imagine that the government council was even more ahead, but I think the most important thing here is that we share the analysis. So I just want to repeat that playing on the regional power that lies in our different regions is what will be most important when we are to secure the income of our welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1359	Thank you very much for a good debate. I'm very much in agreement with what the Council of State says that it's important to have an interaction between the state, regions and municipalities. But it's important to interact internally with the government as well. State Council Sanner thought I had a very positive approach to the debate, but it is not always I think the Minister of Justice has it – or the Minister of Health for its sake. Here I am a little bit at the heart of my problem: that even in the Labour Party, when we are involved and dealing with other issues and working together and criticising the government, we need to see things in context. For Telemark, it's not very popular that the police officer should not be there anymore, but that's what it is. But when you get a bigger police district, a missing local hospital, prison places are laid down and the list goes on, then do something with a region, and that's the context where we have to look at, be a little self-searching, that when we're going to make big changes, we have to see them in a context, because for some regions of Norway, it tends to look a little worse than for others. I also look forward to the big message that is announced, but we cannot wait for it. We have to work with Saka no, in the interaction that the state council Jan Tore Sanner has with the state spokesmen, and that we have with the municipalities. The representative Ropstad also refers to the bureaucracy box, and it's kind of a little paradox. We've heard from you in the past. from Jan Tore Sanner that it has the problem solution, and we are all well to reduce bureaucracy, but if one has to expand any of it, why does everything have to end up in Oslo? Then I agree with the representative, Mr. Greni, that one has to bet more on the areas that wear out the growth force, and I feel that I am being done too little. Something has to be centralized. Some services seem to be better if you collect them in larger units, but it's not like that, and so I'm wondering what government councils put in a robust labour market, and what council I think are the most important success factors for better job placement, because I hope he agrees with me that we can become better than what we are today, even though one can point to numbers in terms of moving out a lot of jobs. The last thing is if the Council of State agrees with me that one should invest more in the existing academic environment outside, and that together we try to avoid further building out the directorata in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1372	I would once again like to thank the interpellant for many good moments and also analysis. It is very easy in this debate to jump into the ditch and argue for one instrument that is the answer to everything. If it had been so that regional development funds would have been the answer to centralisation versus decentralization, I think we could all agree on that. It is not right, as some have said in the debate, that the government is cutting off regional policy instruments. On the contrary. What we're doing is we're re-prioritising something, and together we're strengthening them. It has a little bit to do with what you think works to get growth and development across the country. We have strong faith that expanding infrastructure and not least rural roads will help to shorten the path to markets and increase the labour market and contribute to growth and development across the country. So I also think, as the interpellant is concerned, that we have to agree that there have been some social changes over the last 150 years that are moving in the direction of people moving from small places to larger, but also to smaller cities. It is related to social changes such as education and educational attainment. If you have a long education, you might want to use it in a larger professional environment. What is our challenge, and we have to make sure, is that we get the good interaction between small and large cities, surrounding and districts. I think we have the best basis to get it right by the fact that resources are in the districts. Either it's marine resources, sea and marine, whether it's minerals, whether it's forestry and agriculture or renewable energy, the resources are in District Norway, and it's a great starting point for us to still have both jobs and settlements across the country. Then – and I agree with that – we must ensure that government jobs are also established regionally. The growth that has been in major cities is largely related to the fact that there are universities and colleges, and when we put more money into universities and colleges, there are also more employees. Strengthening the health system also increases the number of government employees in the health sector, but also ensuring that a person also has skills jobs in medium and small places, I believe that it can help to create a wide range of and strong labour markets across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1381	Then there's case no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1397	Transparency and transparency are essential for people to be informed and involved in public activities. Public enterprises manage large resources on behalf of the community. Citizens need information on how these resources are managed, so that we ensure a transparent society, that critical conditions are identified, and that citizens can make informed choices. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right. It is set out in the Basic Law Section 100 and is also subject to international obligations. Freedom of expression includes, inter alia: The aim is to contribute to the best possible informed debate and to strengthen democracy. It is the employee’s right to speak on his own behalf that is protected. Who is to act on behalf of the enterprise controls the enterprise itself. I would venture the claim that Norway is the world leader in both openness and freedom of expression. There's a lot of reasons for that. We have worked over many years to maximise transparency. The media play a central role, and employees contribute to the same. We want it to still be like that. Norway will lead the world and the public sector will lead Norway. There should be a common responsibility, but in particular it should be a management responsibility. The size has, in several stages, been the subject of a number of decisions aimed at ensuring greater transparency and protection of fundamental freedoms. These are important prerequisites for our democracy, locally as a national. On 1 January 2009, the new Public Health Act entered into force. The purpose of the law was to give greater transparency to the administration. When the law was passed, the Stortinget therefore asked the government to carry out an evaluation of the law after a few years in order to see if the intentions for more transparency had been fulfilled. Although the law provides decisive leadership for practice, publicity and transparency are also very much about culture and attitudes. The law is based a lot on judgement, and there are great cultural differences in the issue of transparency, between municipalities and between businesses. As many people know, the evaluation of the Public Health Act was recently presented and shows interesting findings, both that the Public Health Act operates in many contexts after the intention, and that there are considerable variations and much to address. Also in the field of freedom of expression, there has been a great job in recent years. The law has gradually improved, and there is a lot of debate. Alerting means telling about critical conditions in the workplace. Since 2007, the Labour Environment Act has had three provisions regulating the right of workers to alert. Its name is, among other things, that the employer shall facilitate alerting. When the alert determinations were evaluated by e.g. the law firm Arntzen de Besche in 2013 showed positive developments both in the review and in the analysis of the practice. One main finding was that the number of cases before the courts has increased significantly, and the general culture of warning has been softened. This shows that legislative changes – what is adopted in this house – have an effect, but that much remains, including in the area of alerts. Among other things, we have Unfortunately, a number of examples of media alerts being controversial and may increase the risk of sanctions. Known recent alerts are time, among other things. The Monika case and the Unibuss case, where both alerts received the Free Word Prize last year for their courageous efforts to reveal critical conditions in the labour market. Notification costs, and both of these warnings have experienced a great deal of stress in retrospect. The research project ‘Status of freedom of expression in Norway’ provided an overall review of the state of freedom of expression in Norway last year. The project was led by the Institute for Social Research on behalf of Fritt Ord. The report shows that public employees consider their freedom of expression to be worse than private employees and that private sector alerts believe that they have achieved more change than public sector alerts. So although there is a great deal of attention and improvement in the law, unfortunately we see a trend that is going in the wrong direction in certain areas. An example is last year’s SKUP conference, which showed that 40 of the 63 methodological reports submitted described some significant problems in accessing public information. In some cases, a substantial part of the documents had never found the way to the postal records. It may also seem that employees are not sufficiently familiar with legislation, and perhaps not their rights either. For example, some years ago, Bærum municipality conducted a survey showing that among those who had exempted documents under the Public Procurement Act, a total of 36 pst answered. that they did not know any of the principles of the law. Unfortunately, the municipality of Berum does not stand out. In 2011, the Norwegian Press Association's selection of publications provided an transparency index for all municipalities in Norway. It refers to some significant problems both in terms of transparency vis-à-vis control committees and in terms of confidentiality rules for local politicians, where 82 pst. by the municipalities, they continue to have illegal codes of professional secrecy. It also shows that many Norwegian municipalities lack clear provisions that employees as a starting point have full freedom of expression in municipal matters as well, and that a majority of municipalities lack a search function to find specific documents in the post-journal on the Internet. We also know that the municipalities have failed reporting, that there is a poor choice of systems in some municipalities, that there is a lack of transparency in professional and case systems, and that in some cases there is some cryptic management of case lists, meeting books and records, which makes the job difficult for both journalists and citizens who want to see. The complaint mechanism of the Public Prosecutor’s Act shall ensure the prompt and sound treatment of transparency requirements in public documents. The County Board of Appeal is the Supervisory Board of municipal bodies. It states that the complaint shall be prepared and settled without undue delay, and that access requirements which have not been dealt with within five working days shall be regarded as an appeal for a refusal of access. We have received several suggestions on how things can get better. What is different is that municipalities should develop better mailing lists, that they should be included in the Public Electronic Postal Register with full text searching possibilities, and that it should be ensured that the intention of the Public Procurement Act on more transparency is respected, in particular with regard to internal documents and tenders in the case of public procurement. It is particularly important now that the law has just been evaluated and the evaluation has to be assessed. So it's a challenge that today's practice opens up some random handling. The question is, when we see so many municipalities where there is training and a long procedure period, whether or not we should also consider forms of penalties to address the worst cases. Some have raised fines as an opportunity for the worst. Stavanger Aftenblad conducted an investigation at the end of 2014 showing that 106 out of 140 municipalities have an illegal information code for their local government. One of the appeals here was that the legislation imposes more confidentiality on elected representatives than the law permits. Journalists also experience, in particular, that employees in socially important sectors such as education, health and social inclusion are given a mouth-to-mouth approach to the media. In several previous opinions, the Ombudsman has based on the assumption that the employer does not have the right to respond to an employee’s opinions unless there is a clear risk of harm to the legitimate and factual interests of the employer. I have seen an exchange of letters between the Civil Ombudsman and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation from last year. Yesterday, perhaps as a result of this correspondence, a press release from the Civil Ombudsman wrote that there is a need to strengthen the freedom of expression of public servants, which, according to the Civil Ombudsman, can be resolved with more active guidance from the general authorities. It might have been interesting to hear the local government minister's views about this. We have recently left behind a local and regional election. Elections have asked for and been given the confidence of the people. It also carries a great deal of responsibility – on behalf of the community and towards its employees. The public sector shall be the guarantor of transparency and freedom of expression of employees. Newly elected municipal government representatives now have a golden opportunity to put this on the agenda and contribute to a new culture of transparency in public Norway. But I think contributions from the public and the public community are also necessary. That is why I am very interested to hear how the Minister of Local Councillor intends to take initiatives to ensure a greater degree of transparency and that municipalities do not restrict the freedom of expression of employees beyond what is legally available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1441	I would like to start by thanking the representative for addressing important questions. The themes deserve attention. There are two ratios that are taken into account in the interpellation. One is transparency and transparency in the municipalities and, in particular, the length of the proceedings of the municipalities in dealing with requests for transparency. The second is the freedom of expression of employees in the municipalities. Let's start by agreeing on an important starting point, namely that the municipalities are independent legal entities. This means, among other things: that they have a separate responsibility to comply with the legislation to which they are subject. This also applies to the rules of the Local Government Act and the Public Health Act. Transparency in municipal administration is regulated, inter alia: by the municipal law, which has rules on the publication of meetings. Popular bodies shall deal with their cases and take their decisions in meetings. The starting point is that the meetings are open to everyone. In exceptional cases, if meetings are to be closed, they must be by law and by separate decision. All meetings shall be published in an appropriate manner and the list of cases and other documents shall be available to the public. The meeting rules shall help to create confidence in municipal activities and facilitate democratic participation and control. Transparency is a prerequisite for a well-functioning local democracy. It is important that both rapporteurs and advisers are aware of their responsibilities and that local politicians contribute to ensuring these important values. The Ministry regularly deals with enquiries where we guide municipalities, county councils and county councillors on the importance of the principle of public meeting and on how to understand the rules. The county itself carries out a guidance work for the municipalities and has contact with the municipalities on matters relating to the public meeting. The meeting rules were subject to extensive revision in 2011. The Ministry makes ongoing assessments of the rules. The purpose of the revision and evaluations is to provide for rules that ensure increased compliance and transparency. Soon I will promote a proposition where the government proposes to make it clear that all meetings must be announced, including the meetings that the municipality knows will be closed. I would also like to propose clarification that meetings in municipal enterprises should be published. Without prior notice, the rules governing the public meeting would be illusory. The residents and the press cannot be present when they do not know that the meetings are being held. The decision to hold meetings for open or closed doors may be the subject of legal review. In addition, matters relating to the public meeting may be dealt with by the Civil Ombudsman. Such control mechanisms help to ensure compliance and correction of the defaulting municipalities. The Municipal Law Committee will soon deliver its report where they, among others, has looked at the public meeting. Until it is delivered and has been consulted, it is not appropriate to carry out a major investigation of the local authorities' rules on transparency in addition to the specific clarifications I have already mentioned. It should also be mentioned that, in several areas, municipalities are already proactive in the publication of documents. Especially in planning and construction, which are very important for the inhabitants, there are several municipalities that publish documents in full text on their websites, so that everyone can go in and read the documents without having to promote a desire for transparency. In addition, almost all municipalities in the country place meeting calendars, convocations, case papers and meeting protocols easily available on their websites. This is important in order to strengthen local democracy and contribute to increased understanding and involvement in local policy. Transparency in municipalities is also regulated by the Public Service Act. This law is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security. The Public Health Act has recently been evaluated, and I have seen an interim report from the evaluation. Since the law and the evaluation are not my responsibility, I will limit the review. However, I have found some elements of the report that it is worth getting out of this debate. The interviews with representatives from the municipalities show, among other things: that there has been a trend towards increased transparency in municipalities. In particular, the advisers are public drivers, and there are some other individuals who are driving forces for transparency. This is good news and shows that there is a lot of good happening in the municipalities. I expect the municipalities to comply with the requirements set by the Public Service Act for the treatment of transparency requests. This applies in particular to the provisions on rapid processing time. This evaluation also shows that the majority of municipalities have training courses for their employees, where training under the Public Health Act is part of the scheme. Others have their own special course on the law. This means that municipalities are committed to complying with the rules and already have measures to increase their competence in dealing with transparency requirements. Furthermore, the Minister of Justice should comment on and, if so, what further measures can be taken to further reduce the length of proceedings, or to prevent some cases from taking disproportionate time. The second issue concerns the freedom of expression of employees in the local government sector. Two basic premises have to be mentioned here at the outset. The first is that employees in municipalities have, with some exceptions, the same freedom of expression as anyone else. Any restrictions must be clearly justified. There may be rules on professional secrecy or the statutory obligation of loyalty to the employer. The second is that the municipalities are independent legal entities which are themselves responsible for the exercise of the rights and obligations of their employees. The municipalities themselves are responsible for the employer. As you know, the Ministry is not the dominant municipality in this type of labour law issue. I cannot instruct or adopt regulations for the municipalities on such matters. It is therefore important that the elected representatives of the municipalities are aware of their role as top employer in the municipality. Similarly, the managers of the municipality’s administration must be conscious of their responsibilities and contribute to the creation of a culture of transparency and to the free participation of employees in the societal debate. As I have said from this pulpit earlier and in other contexts, it is important that the municipalities familiarise their employees with the wide freedom of expression they have, and do not restrict it. I am also concerned that employees with their expertise can contribute to an informed and critical societal debate. Most municipalities have their own legislation affecting the freedom of expression of employees. Of course, the municipalities may not adopt regulations or take other acts which restrict the freedom of expression of their employees. I expect the municipalities to have order in their locally adopted regulations, and not otherwise respond to employees who use their statutory freedom of expression. In any case, such local rules do not prejudge the employee’s freedom of expression under the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. A survey carried out by Norsk Editorial Association in the autumn of 2014 on municipalities in Oslo and Akershus and Akershus County, shows, among other things, that: that the majority of municipalities have ethical guidelines and communication strategies that directly violate laws and regulations. What the authors of the report lacked was a more offensive approach and actively facilitating or encouraging employees to express themselves freely. I fully agree with the report that this is where the municipalities can get better. This is something the municipalities have to work with locally, and it has to be done in an interaction between the elected and the administrative management of the municipality. Although the regulations are in conformity with the applicable law, the problems will often arise from the interpretation of the regulations and the specific opinion of the staff member. Some of the recent cases show that there is a greater need to examine the practice of freedom of expression and the attitudes of managers. These are issues that the municipalities themselves are most likely to address. The State has a certain opportunity, through the rules on law enforcement, to control municipal guidelines on the freedom of expression of employees. The freedom of expression of employees is also linked to ethics and the aim of a trust-creating municipality. Therefore, this question is regularly addressed in the KS dialogue. At this year's Ethics Conference, which will take place on 13 April, part of the conference will deal with warnings and freedom of expression in the municipalities. The conference is organised in cooperation between the KS, Transparency International and the Department. I am pleased that the ethics committee of the KS has been involved in the issue of transparency and the freedom of expression of employees. By letter of 14 December 2015 to all the municipalities of the country, the sample recommended the municipalities ‘to facilitate transparency and a good climate of expression’. As the representative of Grande is probably familiar with, there is now also a proposal for a representative to be discussed in Stortinget, among other things. is about warning in the workplace. There is also a point here concerning the promotion of legislative proposals or the preparation of regulatory changes which state that there is no right to impose regulatory restrictions on freedom of expression. Since this proposal is now under consideration, I will not put forward the debate by commenting on this proposal. Notification and freedom of expression of employees are the responsibility of the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, and she will be the first to assess this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1492	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer, which responds in many ways to the challenges I have given through the interpellation, and which we see out in the Commune-Norway in terms of both publicity and the freedom of expression of employees. I agree with what the Council of State says that the municipalities have a separate responsibility to ensure publicity. I am also pleased that the Minister of Local Affairs stresses the basic principles and the responsibility of elected and councillors to ensure both publicity and freedom of expression, and I am pleased that there is a proposal for a public meeting. It's an important and good step in the right direction. I interpret the Council of State as saying that, in the case of the law, much of what is the intention of the Storting has been achieved, and that the primary thing may not be to look at further action through the law, but that the greatest challenge today is perhaps more about culture, role understanding, and that the intentions that the Stortinget has laid down in today's law are being fulfilled in all the municipalities. There, of course, it is the municipalities themselves that are responsible for ensuring that the law is followed, and that there is no legislation that conflicts with it or goes beyond the limitations that are possible. There I believe that, in addition to the local authorities themselves having a responsibility, we all have a common responsibility to contribute in particular to protecting the freedom of expression of employees, and that it can be implemented in many ways. One is what the Council of State itself points to, namely the dialogue with the KS. I assume that this will also be the subject of discussion the next time the government has its consultation meeting with KS – and that the responsibility of the municipalities is to ensure that the intention of the law is fulfilled, and that the freedom of expression of employees is guaranteed, which is clarified. So I would like to challenge the Council of State if you can also think of contributing to the important work that is about improving the reporting systems. It has, among other things, with local economy, but at the same time the Minister of State is the Minister of Modernisation, so this should be a good and important matter for the Council of State to encourage. In addition, can the Council of State envisage working with the other departments responsible for this – for it is clear here that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Municipal Affairs have shared responsibility – and can the government coordinate this work better?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1501	The representative has understood me correctly. We agree on important principles and values both to ensure transparency and to ensure the freedom of expression of employees. We have a law and rules that are good, but that can definitely get better at some point. That's why I have now announced some changes, and we have the Municipal Law Committee, which will bring its investigation around Easter times, which also looks at important aspects of this. But basically, I think this is about consciousness at all levels: at counselors, at leaders, but also at our elected representatives. It is important that elected locals see the connection between openness, local democracy and the involvement of the inhabitants. There I think we have an important role to play in getting that message out. It is also the case that the county, department and KS provide both guidance and training. In addition, I believe that the press has an important role to play in being a driver of transparency. I think that some of the most important things to achieve cultural change and improvement are just openness and debate on these issues. With regard to the issue of public mail and its availability, many municipalities have actually come further than we have done in the country, so I have now taken the initiative to get a new public e-mail journal, which will help us both reduce costs and get more transparency and availability. Some municipalities have gone ahead, but more and better work can be done at municipal level. We come in the spring with a new digital agenda, and there is no doubt that the digital tools can contribute to more publicity and better accessibility for both the press and the citizens. Finally, let me confirm that cooperation between the ministries in this area is important. Here, of course, we have good contact and dialogue with both the Ministry of Justice in terms of the Public Health Act and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in terms of the more labour law aspects – there is good coordination in this area. We also have good contact with the KS and participate in their conferences, which contribute to more awareness and training of elected and administrative management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1510	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important topic for debate here in the main hall. Publicity and openness are fundamental to democracy. It is therefore necessary in all its legislation to assess whether this fundamental principle is adequately ensured. Local democracy in Norway has significant transparency challenges, regardless of governance. The 2009 Public Health Act should address this issue and ensure better access to documents in the municipalities. We must dare to ask ourselves the question of whether the law goes far enough. The ability of a citizen to be transparent, the ability of local media to monitor, is an invaluable control mechanism. If we look back at the election campaign last year, there was a great deal of focus on the fact that the Municipality of Oslo refused access to some aspects related to healthcare. Such situations are unfortunate and are only suitable for weakening public confidence. But in order to ensure transparency in the public sector, we also rely on employees to dare to stand up and alert us and to inform us of what the situation actually is, and that they dare to point out critical circumstances. I have to say I'm somewhat surprised at the great commitment of some people in the room today, given that we're just going to go back six months in time, June 2015, to see that decisions were taken that greatly weakened transparency, transparency and the media's ability to do their job. At that time, a majority in this Chamber decided that municipalities with parliamentary governance would be allowed to extend the possibility of exempting case-by-case notes from the City Council. What does it say that in 2015 we actually make proposals in this room that actually restrict the law of publicity? It probably shows that more is needed than future interpellation debates. A debate on public health must not only be a debate with fine words, but it must also have some realities in it. This means that, in the future, realities and weaknesses should be discussed in the current practice of the Public Health Act. We need to get on the table at the bottom of the law and make concrete suggestions on how to open up the municipal administration more. A start would obviously be to reverse the decision taken by Stortinget before the summer of 2015. That would be a good start. I welcome the fact that we in Stortinget can have these debates on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1527	Let me also give the interpellant credit to travel a discussion about a very central and important topic. I myself have my background before Stortinget partly from municipal policy, where public disclosure and transparency in both public processes and documents were of course very central in a very large municipality like Trondheim. I also had the pleasure of getting a job in the Labour Inspectorate, who in the Public Electronic Post Register had a Norwegian record of transparency requests, and where, as a body and as a management, one was well used to dealing with a positive and strong wish from the outside world of transparency in the business. For public activities, whether local government or state, responsibility for things that are important to people and for business. The debate is therefore relevant both for employees in the municipal sector and for residents, for business, for other interests and for the public as such. I think Norway is in an international specialty with regard to legislation that provides transparency and access to information about public sector activities, and also in practice. But we still have challenges and a lot to go in many areas. It is important for democratic participation on the part of the population that they are given the opportunity to exercise involvement and that they are given the opportunity to influence public policy and administrative decisions. And it is particularly important from the point of view of legal certainty that one should also have the opportunity to have an insight into the matter, to know which assessments form the basis for taking decisions and exercising powers, such as: Then it's also true that it's worrying that there are so many inequalities and so much variation between municipalities. I'll be careful to say that this is an attitude issue – even if you can find examples of that too – it's not about the attitude to transparency. I think most people, when they think about it, understand the value of showing great transparency about what's going on -- whether it's in political forums or in administrative offices. First of all, it is about competence and knowledge and about tools to implement the legislation we have in terms of public access and transparency. With regard to the transparency of political processes and the representation of Mr Greni, I would like to say that when more people at the Stortinget took the initiative to change the transparency rules of the political processes that councils and similar councils can have, it is about strengthening the possibility that elected politicians can work out their policy solutions for the public without having to draw those processes from behind. I think that's something we unfortunately see a little too much of, and it can apply regardless of whether it's been city council – that's where we change it now – or whether it's in more traditionally run municipalities. There are processes between political parties that are not regulated by public and transparency rules, and if there are large constellations, as we see in some places, of parties that have a broad majority in a local government or presidency, you come to the Presidency meeting and you don't even have to justify your political position, you just say that you have now agreed to another meeting, in a pre-meeting, and that's how it will be. There's a challenge to it, but there's a limit to when we're going to intervene in the political processes. At least we have to make sure that it is properly regulated, and I believe that we did when the Stortinge adopted the changes that apply to urban councils in Oslo and elsewhere. The representative of Greni also criticises the municipality of Oslo for not having provided insight into non-conformities in the care of the elderly, which was a discussion about in the election campaign. I'm glad that it wasn't about a fundamental resistance to it, but about a practical and administrative assessment of the capacity, because there's something about how fast you administratively have to present such things. I am also pleased that we have had a debate on transparency in intercommunal companies, because it tends to be forgotten, but these rules also apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1540	Thank you for a good debate among those who participated. I would like to see more people taking part in such an important debate as this, because it is a very basic understanding of the responsibilities of the people elected to ensure that the freedom of expression of employees is respected, and that there are opportunities for transparency on important issues, where the interests of the community are managed. I would like to see that more committed, but I would like to thank those who have participated, in particular the Council of State, whom I see responding well to the challenge that is being given, and to which we now have expectations in the further work to ensure that the intentions, both from the debate here and in the law, are met. It is worth noting that both technological developments, leading to new media habits, and the fact that much faster information is expected, demand greater transparency and speed for government, which is important to respond to and be aware of. We also see an increase in the use of information workers, at both local and central level, which can lead – if we are not on guard – to a filter between citizens and public administrations and between politicians and the media. It's a development that we have every reason to be on guard. We have a lot of issues that go beyond the spring that provide the basis for optimism on the topic we are discussing, both the grips that the Council of State is warning, the dialogue that will be in place, and the proposals for representatives to be dealt with in this house later this year, on alert conditions. We, through our Committee on Democracy and the Media, have also called for all public bodies to review legislation and ways of organising activities in order to ensure greater transparency and transparency. It remains to be seen how we can follow up the concrete proposals when they come to the table, but one of the most important tasks in the future will be to improve culture locally, to coordinate efforts, and to coordinate efforts both in this house and in government between the various expert committees and departments, all of which have a common responsibility to ensure a stronger work related to transparency and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1553	I would like to join the representative of Arild Grandes in thanking those who have taken part in the debate. There hasn't been much disagreement on this issue, but it doesn't make the interpellation less important, rather on the contrary, this is a topic that we need to have a continuous discussion about, how we can secure the fundamental values of our democracy, namely transparency, participation and transparency. I am also pleased that, as regards the weaknesses that have been brought forward, not only calls for a new circular or a new letter from the Council of State, and then the challenge will be solved. I think the topics we've been discussing today are subjects that require continuous awareness, training, guidance and discussion around them. Just by getting the media’s critical searchlight on what is happening locally and nationally, by the fact that local politicians are drivers of transparency, we can also contribute to increasing the involvement of citizens. I agree that it promises well. There will be some suggestions during the spring, and we will also have new discussions about both the Public and Municipal Law, but the basic thing is about the management and awareness of these central values in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1562	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1578	The Council of State is probably also the Nordic Minister for Cooperation in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1581	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on a new portfolio – at least in part. The Council of State may request the Prime Minister to extend the name of the Council of State and to include «Nordic» as it forms an important part of this. But I see the complexity of getting such a long title. Nordic cooperation has been characterised by close and trusting cooperation for many years. The Nordic countries have been working for the greatest possible degree of legal equality for many years. Central laws in civil law, for example: is based on common Nordic standards. This has contributed to growth, security and well-being in the Nordic region. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have played a central role in this work for many years, and the Nordic Council has been leading the way in a global context, demonstrating the potential of closer international cooperation and the reduction of border barriers. In this way, the Council of States can benefit from Nordic experience when working with the EEA and the EU. If the Nordic region continues to be in the forefront of establishing committed cooperation between countries and the reduction of barriers to increased trade and interaction, it is necessary to continue intensively to reduce border barriers. The reduction of border barriers in the Nordic region has also contributed to the understanding of more cooperation in the Nordic region in social areas that do not specifically relate to border barriers. We stand stronger in the Nordic region, for example, when we get together. can develop both policies, strategies and responses to international challenges such as: combating crime, climate policy and consumer-related challenges, to mention something. In Nordic cooperation, there is a continuous focus on combating frontier barriers. If we succeed in this work, it can be one of many contributions to creating jobs and growth. It is in my opinion the main tasks of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers to continue to do so. Here we really see results. In the Nordic Council there is therefore a border-blocking group which follows up the work of the Border Barriers Council. That is good dialogue, I see, and good cooperation in this work, both between the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers and with the Norwegian Minister for Cooperation. In addition, the Norwegian representative in the Border Obstacle Council, Svein Ludvigsen, has twice been in the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council and briefed on the work of the Border Obstacle Council, and in particular on issues involving Norway. On a general basis, I agree that work is concentrated on addressing border barriers in areas such as the labour market, health and social field and education, and addressing problems where there is a prospect of a solution – a pragmatic way of working. We also need to take up this commitment politically and that the Storing, the Trade Union Committees and the Government are constantly ensuring that the objectives set in this work are actually achieved. There's also something of the background for this interpolation. Over the years, serious and targeted work has been undertaken in departments and agencies to find solutions to address border barriers. The work has been taken seriously, and it is positive. But there's also reason to stress that it takes time, and some obstacles we've literally also met that we've had problems with being able to do something about, say, the political desire to do something, would definitely indicate that several frontier barriers are falling. In reducing the number of barriers, I am convinced that the strategy chosen to identify a few realistic remote barriers is correct. Setting clear measurable targets requires the government to follow up the border barriers identified. The work on combating frontier barriers is continuous work, and this point was well illustrated after a conference of the Danish Presidency of the Council of Ministers held on 30 April last year. Following the conference, the social partners sent a letter containing 15 identified border barriers to the Danish Prime Minister. The work is moving forward, but it's also enough to tackle to create a more borderless Nordic. The paradox in these days is that we see the boundaries and the border control being built up. We're going to hope it's going to be very temporary. It is also recognised at the highest political level — by the Nordic prime ministers when they met in Reykjavik last autumn — that this work needs to be emphasised. Governments have a lot of work to do. I would like to point out some of these matters. It was the chairman of the Culture and Education Committee in the Nordic Council, Jorod Asphjell, who in the debate at the Reykjavik session last autumn pointed out that in the Committee's field of competence there has been an awareness of cross-border issues that seem very unreasonable, such as: copyright in the distribution of culture, one area where you can easily go in and see if you have the opportunity to contribute to this type of activity – and we would all like that, cultural activity – does not run into frontier barriers when culture is going to flow well across the Nordic region. We have also seen — and this is also a challenge for us in Norway — that the right of disabled people to education and work in Nordic countries has been problematic. There's a need to go inside. And not least, we have seen challenges related to the recognition of vocational education, which are crucial if we are to be able to create a well-functioning common Nordic labour market. We also see challenges in the area of health and social security as there is a need to draw attention to the work to be done in the future. Finally, I would also like to point out the matter that has taken up the Norwegian delegation to a very large extent in recent years, when a group of pensioners, Norwegian pensioners, have really met the barriers to their lives. This is about pensioners who have moved to Sweden, and who, without me going to go to the depth of that case, have really experienced the practice of tax agreements between countries having fallen between almost all possible chairs. It has been very much encouraged, especially to the Swedish government, to clean up this. Because there is a great demand for many people who are met by Swedish authorities, but who have at least their basis in the fact that the practice of a common Nordic legislation has become so that you get very unlucky tax returns, based on what you are actually informed about. So I also want to use this opportunity – I have probably used every single occasion, at least in the Nordic Council – to talk about this. One thing is that you can go in and look at rule changes to build down frontier barriers, but in some cases we also depend on how these rules are actually practiced, and whether they are practiced in such a way that people are not unduly affected by, for example. moving from Norway to Sweden. I have always thought that both the Norwegian and Swedish authorities should have sat down to a greater extent – and this applies regardless of the government colour we have had, for this has gone over several years – to find a modest solution for these pensioners. I therefore allow myself to conclude this introduction by encouraging the Council of State as strongly as I can, to see if it is now possible to find a solution to this matter. It would be a great spring in her hat to get if she managed in her important work to create more interaction, not only in the EEA and the EU, but to the most extent in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1607	Thank you for the nice words from the interpellant and thank you to the interpellant for taking up this theme, which must not be said to have become less topical since the interpellation was submitted and set before Christmas. But let there be no doubt that the government prioritises both Nordic cooperation and work on and against border barriers high. Preventing and removing frontier barriers creates jobs, strengthens competitiveness and contributes to growth. These are key objectives of the government's political platform, which are also reflected in our priorities for Nordic cooperation and for cooperation with the EU. I will discuss how the work is followed up in practice. At the same time, it is not possible to talk about Nordic border barriers today without affecting the situation in the field of asylum and migration. On Monday 4 January, Sweden introduced temporary ID checks – and carrier responsibility – on bus, train and ferry connections to Denmark. Half a day later, Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen announced the introduction of temporary ID controls at the Danish border with Germany. Denmark justifies its actions with the introduction of controls in the other Nordic countries, including in particular the introduction of carrier liability by Sweden. It is important to stress that temporary measures are involved and that they are introduced in order to prevent persons who do not have the necessary travel documents from entering the country. The Danish checks apply initially only for 10 days, until 14 January. The Swedish are valid for six months, until 4 July. At the same time, there is reason to remind ourselves that this is the first time since 1954 that people crossing Øresund have to legitimize. These controls create significant challenges for the Øresund region, which, with its 3.7 million inhabitants and 31,000 day commuters, is the most integrated cooperation region in the Nordic region. A quarter of Sweden’s and Denmark’s total GDP is generated in the Øresund region, which also has the highest concentration of highly educated workers in northern Europe and which is the host region of the Nordic largest IT cluster. Just because the Øresund region is so important, there is considerable concern about what this development can mean for the Nordic region and for our future regional cooperation. Free movement and economic integration have served our Nordic societies very well. The need for economic change we ourselves and the other Nordic countries have in the future suggests that we need more freedom of movement and economic cooperation in the Nordic region, not less. There is now a dialogue between the Nordic countries on the challenges related to the situation in the field of asylum and migration, both bilaterally and in the context of Schengen cooperation. There is a dialogue in which the government will support and actively participate. Border barriers are at the heart of the activities of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The various Councils of Ministers are all actively working on border barriers — although some are naturally more relevant than others. The Council of Ministers also places considerable emphasis on prevention. As part of the modernisation reform, prevention of border barriers is to be included on the agenda of all Councils of Ministers. The consequences of different implementation of EU/EEA legislation are only one dimension of this. Denmark, which had the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2015, made the fight against frontier barriers a major priority, as was also the subject of the inter-pellant. Denmark has prepared the basis for closer cooperation between the social partners in order to overcome what they call ‘blocks for growth’. The Council of Ministers is now preparing a proposal for an annual meeting of the social partners. The Nordic Prime Ministers, under Danish leadership, presented a statement on border barriers to growth during the Nordic Council's session in Reykjavik last October. The Finnish Presidency this year also places considerable emphasis on cross-border work. Finland wants to focus more on coherent Nordic implementation of EU directives in order not to create new barriers. Furthermore, statistics on border barriers to free movement between Nordic countries are to be compiled. It has been in demand for several years. Finland also organises its own Cooperation Ministerial Meeting on Frontier Barriers at the end of 2016 in the Finnish-Swedish border town of Tornio – or Haparanda in Swedish. All Member States actively support the Border Obstacle Council established in 2014 which delivered its first annual report at the end of that year. The report for 2015 is available in those days. Svein Ludvigsen is as well-known Norway's representative in the Border Obstacle Council. The report and the annual report provide a brief list of priority barriers that each country is responsible for solving. I think we can state that all the departments and sectors are currently working very well and systematically on the problem of frontier barriers. I meet with Svein Ludvigsen regularly concerned departments about concrete border barriers, and we welcome input from the social partners and others who have concrete obstacles they want us to pay attention to. The status of cross-border work is discussed with the ministries and solutions are proposed. Norway's representative in the Border Obstacle Council, Svein Ludvigsen, also regularly meets the Nordic Council delegation and explains the status of his work – no later than 21 October last year. Last November, I met representatives of the border services, i.e. the institutions dealing with the practical challenges of the free movement of labour across our Nordic borders. In 2015, in the Border Obstacles Council, Norway was responsible for following up seven border barriers, where most are in the process or are removed from the list because they cannot be resolved. Border barriers that Norway prioritise include, inter alia: tax matters relating to persons and industries and patient travel for commuters. The Border Obstacle Council will meet at the end of this month, or more specifically in a week and a half, to prepare the work on the 2016 priority. In addition, we are now from Norway in the process of preparing Norway's Presidency in Nordic cooperation in 2017. I do not reveal a great secret if I say that the fight against frontier barriers will naturally be given great weight even under the Norwegian Presidency. The challenges in 2017 will be many. Migration is central — and Norway may no longer be as attractive as the labour market for our Nordic fellow citizens. But today, Norway has most border barriers precisely because it's here that we've had the largest labour supply from other parts of the Nordic region. I just want to end by saying that it's generally a very good dialogue. I think we've arranged for systems that make it easy to make recordings. It should be easy to engage in dialogue either with the ministries or with the Norwegian representative – and he has made himself very accessible. I am also pleased with what the interpellant says about the cooperation between the border barrier group in the Nordic Council established, and the Border Barrier Council within the Council of Ministers. I think we have everything to do with having good dialogue, that we have everything to do with systematizing this work further, that we have everything to do not to make a list of these frontier obstacles we're going to try to solve, too long, but rather have a priority list that makes us fully pressurised to solve those frontier obstacles that are on that list at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1660	I can certainly say that I am very pleased with the Council's response to the interpellation. I guess we're 100 pst. agree on how this work is rigged. I believe that the legitimacy of Nordic cooperation as such rests precisely on this type of activity. Every time someone asks about what we're doing in the Nordic Council, I think it's natural to point out this work. Here we have opportunities to get results that matter to most people, and where you see immediate benefits of closer Nordic cooperation. As I also said in my main post, this helps to stimulate another type of cooperation. So this is very important. But there's no reason to hide that we're facing some challenges. The councils were in on some of these. In particular, during periods when Norway is attractive as a labour market, it appears. But there are frontier barriers that we have everything to do on the sea, which are also being reduced. Then we often meet that these frontier barriers and rules, which make it harder to float either by workers, people, patients, social security rights or whatever it may be across borders, have good reason. That's why I think the strategy chosen to actually remove the barriers that you can't get away with, and operate on pragmatic lists, is very important. It's a paradox, which the Council of State was also involved in, at these times we see that at least identity checks are reintroduced at the border. I do not know whether the people are aware of the importance of the borderless Nordic region since the nineteen-and-fifty, when passport freedom was introduced, and what kind of basis it has laid for interaction in particular on trade between the Nordic countries. I am pleased that the Council of State strongly points out that these are temporary rules. We have to hope that we get into the normal position as soon as possible. I challenged the Council of State in terms of the tax agreement between the Nordic countries. There are more than 114 named Norwegian pensioners who are clearly misinformed about the rules in force and have come into a gliding tax haven when moving to Sweden. They included: told them not to pay taxes to Sweden for at least three years, but taxes to Norway. The result for many of them has become a massive Swedish residual tax, worked up over several years, which has hit some pensioners very hard. I understand that it is difficult to take this on board in Stortinget, but at least I would strongly encourage the Council of State to get involved in this complex and to help its Swedish colleague find a politically reasonable solution to these.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1673	For the concrete obstacles to the border with which the interpellant was involved: In the case of these Norwegian pensioners who have moved to Sweden, it has, as the interpellant was also involved, been a repetition for several years. But this case has been thoroughly worked with in Norway and Sweden. Thus, no concrete misinformation has been revealed from Norway to the pensioners who planned to move to Sweden in the years 2008–2010. Nor have any of the retired pensioners complained about the equation in Norway for these years. Therefore, as we see it, there is no basis for changing the Norwegian tax settlement for the persons concerned. In view of this and the answers previously given by the Swedish Government on this question, this is not a question where the Norwegian or Swedish Government has indicated that further action will be taken in response to the recommendation made by the Nordic Council. So this is a matter in which we believe that we have done what could be done, and that we have examined the conditions, and where we have concluded that there are no errors in this connection. I just want to comment on some other areas where it has been proven that important progress has been made in the year that has gone by in relation to frontier barriers. There has sometimes been a long period of treatment in cases, especially in the social field. This has been a good job. Organisational changes have been made which, hopefully, will help us to reduce the length of proceedings in these areas. Solutions have been found, on condition that Finland admits reciprocity, to what could compensate for patient travel involving Nordic citizens – or Finnish citizens – who worked in Norway and who had a need to cover their travels in the context of health care. It's also cleaned up in what was some kind of double taxation related to tax collection for real limiters. New practices have been introduced in the Norwegian regulations for employers, so that this group of workers no longer has to pay double taxes and that the frontier barrier in this respect has been cleared up. Simplification processes have also been initiated in the case of Norwegian customs and VAT rules for Nordic companies. This small, short list was supposed to carry out a bid that it was actually making important progress. And the report that the Border Barriers Council will finalise at its meeting in a week and a half will further explain what kind of progress has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1688	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting an important topic on the agenda. In Nordic cooperation, border-blocking work is on the agenda when the Council meets, in committees and in sessions. We who live in the North are the same, and we live in many ways. We're almost like a family. That's why it's so important to try to reduce the boundaries that have arisen between us, between the Nordic countries. I have been in the Border Barriers Group together with the inter-pellant, and we have agreed to take these cross-border issues back to our own parliaments in order to have a debate and to highlight what border barriers it is important to have something done, so that we can achieve flexible and good cooperation across the Nordic borders. In fact, when implementing laws and regulations adopted in the EU, we often implement them differently in the Nordic countries, creating new border barriers. It should therefore become closer cooperation both politically and administratively, so that we implement EU legislation and directives equally in the Nordic region. A lot of good work is done on border barriers. We've heard about that here. The Border Obstacle Council established in Nordic cooperation receives cases from all Nordic countries, and the Minister of Cooperation exerts pressure on the other Councils to address the challenges it is desirable to address. Some things are quickly seen as non-priority and there is nothing to do with, but the things you take on are systematically set up and worked on. It's a priority list, matters are given color codes. Red does not mean priority, yellow that work is going on, green that one waits for a case or looks at whether one can cancel it, and blue that the matter has been written off. It's very transparent and nice for us who work with the questions. One thing that is now being worked on is Norwegian customs and VAT rules for Nordic companies. International conventions regulate the possibilities of VAT exemptions. The problem raised is that plant machinery coming from EU contractors commissioned in Norway must pay VAT on the value of the machinery and subsequently be refunded VAT less the time it has spent in Norway. This affects the liquidity of owners and weakens the competitiveness of smaller enterprises. The Barriers Council points to a deferred charging solution, or Norway makes use of the Swedish system of reporting the introduction VAT on the same date as the deduction is required. The Ministry of Finance states that a comprehensive project is under way to improve tax and tax management, and in this context, such a solution as is now available in Sweden will also be considered. There's a job done, and you move on. As I said, it is important to keep the pressure on this work so that we reduce the barriers and create a more flexible system in the Nordic region in terms of cross-border goods and services. But as the Council of State said in its intervention, we have had a new challenge these days with the extraordinary situation of the large number of refugees coming to the Nordic region, now with stricter border control. I hope that we can tackle good Nordic cooperation on this major new challenge and the difficult situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1710	I would like to thank you for the answers and this call for debate. We are largely in agreement, but I think it is particularly important that we, particularly here in Stortinget and also in the specialist committees, raise our eyes a little and focus more on the kind of issues we are facing – especially the specific obstacles to the border. I think the representative Stein Mathisen gave a very good example of what an actually soluble barrier can be when paying VAT for a plant machinery for a small period of time in Norway. It shows that if we imagine the development of the labour market in the Nordic countries, where we can take advantage of each other's economics and competences, it's the kind of issues that we have to solve, literally. So that's a good example. There will be many relevant discussions in the Scientific Committees and in the EEA. I think it is important that the Council of State does not stand alone in this work, and that we get a political pressure on it so that one understands that where there may be some political reasons to maintain a rule, it would be heavier that we actually remove it as a barrier, because we value the activity we have across borders, more than the possible political concern behind it. There's a relationship around a barrier. The second is the work that I know the government is working on, and that the institutions of the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers have also been involved in, namely how we can prevent the emergence of new border barriers for the future. We're in a situation where our societies are becoming more and more regulated, whether we like it or not, and we're in danger of building new frontier barriers if we don't have attention to this issue. That's why I believe that the representative Stein Mathisen also had a point that we have to be careful when we implement new rules, and that we do it as coordinated as possible in the Nordic region. It is also important that the cooperation that has been at the level of office, between the Justice Departments in particular, which are shaping civil law – the law cooperation, which is strong and good and has been in place for many, many years, and which has been a prerequisite for us to have almost common inheritance legislation, many common criminal law rules and other rules that have an impact on people who cross borders. Thinking about prevention when working with political development, linked to not building up new barriers, will also be a particularly important task for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1723	Thanks to the interpellant and Bente Stein Mathisen for participating in the debate and also bringing new issues and perspectives to the field. It is clear that the importance of this area is underlined by the fact that last year the Prime Ministers actually addressed it as one of their main issues and made this Prime Minister's statement on the cross-border work. The whole reason for that is precisely the importance of having an open and well-functioning common labour market, and that we believe that this is an incentive for more growth and to build our economies even more robust in the future. We can do that by cooperating even more closely in all of the areas where there is a potential for it. Then there is no doubt that parallelity in the implementation of directives etc. is very important in order to avoid building up new frontier barriers – whether temporary or whatever – and to have a good dialogue on the adaptations being made in countries so that unnecessary friction could not be created in areas that could have been avoided by closer cooperation. Nor is it possible to get under the chair that we have many companies that have the Nordics as their market, that cross both one and more national borders, and where it is vital in their everyday lives that border crossings can happen as unhindered as possible. The interpellant also mentioned professional qualifications and recognition of them, and we also know that there is a work in progress related to the mutual recognition of health professionals. The latter has to do with patient safety, but it also has to do with a safe exchange of skills and personnel on the health side. But just to illustrate this with professional qualifications: we are in a situation where we in Norway do have twice as many state-regulated professions as what you have, for example. in Finland. At the same time, there is a process in the EU where mutual recognition of professional qualifications is also to be sought. So here we certainly have a very important work ahead of us, with great opportunities to go wrong if we're not well coordinated and working closely in the process that we're facing. I have also noticed the representative Storberget mentioned copyright. I'll take it with me and play with our representative in the Border Barrier Council if there's one thing that they should look at. Thank you for the debate – an important matter, and I am sure we will not be unemployed in this area in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1740	So the debate is on case No. Seven done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1746	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1754	The case concerns Document 8:37 S for 2015–2016. The proposal for a representative has been dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that there is no vote. The proposal of the representative shall read as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e1952	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «V Stortinget asks the government to: 1. Evaluate incentive schemes with a view to helping municipalities meet long-term objectives for housing and integration. A special responsibility shall be given to the county council to follow up and to be a driving force towards the municipalities. At the beginning of 2016, a new government-KS settlement agreement shall be drawn up. This agreement must ensure that the settlements are in line with the need. The distribution key that provides the basis for IMDI requests has to be reviewed. In the context of the notified integration message, the government shall review the situation of refugees with special needs to ensure their residence. 2nd@item: inlistbox Evaluate the financial incentives for municipalities with a view to more systematic use of self-settlement within the municipal housing decisions. 3rd@item: inlistbox Consider increasing the framework of the House Bank, as well as simplifying the application procedures so that the municipality can build more dwellings. The House Bank plays an important role in ensuring the settlement of people who have been granted residence in Norway. 4th@item: inlistbox Use actively the private rental market to ensure a sufficient number of dwellings and implement simplifications in the rental housing legislation to increase the supply of private rental housing from serious operators.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘VI Storting asks the government to: 1. Review the Introduction Act in the context of the Integration Communication and assess specifically: a) New training courses for newly arrived immigrants. (b) to give municipalities greater freedom to adapt language and integration services themselves to the citizens of their municipality; (c) the possibility of expressive courses in Norwegian and social vocational training. d) how language training can be more combined with work or working practices. (e) to provide the municipalities with flexibility to test models with incentives that can contribute to multiple take-offs and passing the Norwegian test, including reviewing the Norwegian training grant scheme, subtracting benefits in case of absence and facilitating more Internet-based training; 2nd@item: inlistbox To facilitate the teaching of teacher students in education to contribute to the provision of Norwegian training. 3rd@item: inlistbox Prepare to recruit retired teachers who can conduct language training by using retirement pay. As a general rule, an old-age pensioner who is engaged under pension conditions retains the pension without any reduction. 4th@item: inlistbox Evaluate the framework conditions for integration of study associations and other non-governmental organisations. 5th@item: inlistbox Ensure that action is taken in cooperation with parents when language checks at health centres reveal the need for follow-up. 6th@item: inlistbox Develop an integration guide and "best practice" for municipalities. 7th@item: inlistbox Evaluate mechanisms to identify those who have the skills to prevent them from entering the introduction programme. Eight. Limit the possibility of leave from the introduction programme in the case of foreign residence. 9th@item: inlistbox Consider increasing the withdrawal period for the possibility of promoting the application for citizenship in the event of criminal offences. 10th@item: inlistbox Evaluate measures to ensure that training institutions do not contribute to segregation or radicalisation. 11th@item: inlistbox In cases where refugees have gone on vacation/visit to the country of origin from which they have been protected, in cases where this is contrary to the residence decision and thus to the Foreign Affairs Act, please provide an instruction to the effect that a case should be referred back. Such return visits may constitute abuse by the asylum institution and may indicate that there was no real need for protection at the time of granting the residence permit. It is important that there is a visible reaction to this and that authorisations should be reviewed.’» Alternatively, documents 8:37 S for 2015–2016 V and VI and proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the proposals of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e2024	Documents 8:37 S I to IV and VII to XI shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e2034	The following proposals are then put to the vote: Document 8:37 S [[2015-2016]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e2066	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Kjell-Idar Juvik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the assessment of regulatory changes to ensure that pilot and cabin crew per million checks are implemented in the pre-flight procedures and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e2159	In Case No: 5–7 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-12.ana.ud1167e2361	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
