ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e79	Honourable co-representatives! Former Stable Representative Sverre Johan Juvik is dead, 93 years old. He represented the Workers' Party from Sogn and Fjordane for two periods, from 1969 to 1977. He was in both periods of the church and teaching committee at the time. Sverre Juvik originally came from Hemnesberget in the north, but went south at an early age to get work, first in Oslo, later in Årdal. He moved back to Hemnesberget when he retired in 1987, and lived in his hometown of Juvika until his death. After eight active years at Stortinget, Juvik returned to the position of labour manager at Årdal and Sunndal Works. When he was interviewed by the Evening Post on his 50th birthday on April 20, 1972, the interview title was «A still suckling for 50 years». And it went on to say: ‘He is not of those who attract attention in the unseen. People from Sogn and Fjordane, however, know to say that he has been a useful man for the county in the period he spent on the Storting. Among other things, he is credited with part of the honor that Sogndal received his teacher's school." When the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, he was brave enough to break out of his bedrock and vote for his county, which he reaped great local honour for. Sverre Juvik was active for many years in the municipality of Årdal and had a number of trustees within the Workers' Party and the trade union movement. Juvik also had dramatic memories of the war, which followed him all his life. 75 years ago his home, Hemnesberget, was brutally thrown into the world war. And Sverre Juvik was thrown out of his own farm by German forces. Over 20 people lost their lives during the German attack. 110 houses were burned down. Sverre Juvik experienced the horror scenario in close proximity. And he always said of his war experience, "He who says he has never been afraid is not telling the truth." Now it's a long day's work. An active and duty-fulfilling professional and political trust committee has passed away – the trust committee for the movement of workers, the trust committee for the municipality and the trust committee in Stortinget. Sverre Juvik belonged to a generation of politicians who helped lay the foundations for reform and welfare development towards modern Norway. I'm at peace with Sverre Juvik's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e108	The representatives Morten Wold and Tor André Johnsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen. For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal. For Rogaland County: Helge Steinsvåg. For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg. From the meeting of the alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinge from 14 March to 17 March under the leave of the representative Inbjørg Amanda Vokskesen due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Aust-Agder County, Odd Gunnar Tveit, are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e156	Odd Gunnar Tveit is present and will take the seat. From 15 March to 17 March, the Christian People's Party Group has applied for the permission of the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold to take part in the elections in Kazakhstan as an observer of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. This application is proposed to be dealt with immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Telemark County, Hanne Thürmer, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Telemark County, Dag Sele, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e188	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e202	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e209	All property rights in the country shall be leased by a filthwriter, cf. the first paragraph of Section 19 of the Law of the Court of Justice. What is at the root of the matter here today is, among other things: that the administration of the Court of Justice, DA, has been working on a change of regulations in which one can open so that several rights of property can be governed by a common filth printer. The proposers believe that the DA proposal would mean that some courts would lose their daily rental and that this would raise many practical and formal issues. The Minister for Justice and Security replied to the Committee on 5 October last year that, in the light of the answers given to the proposal for a regulation by the DA, the regulation had been amended. The Council of State writes to the Committee that it is only in exceptional cases that it will be relevant with joint court leaders. The Council of State also writes to the Committee that the practice of such a regulation will be very much in line with the recordings which form the basis of the hearing round, where the Ministry considered that such a licence should be used with caution after a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis. The Committee has received a hearing response from the Ministry. A joint committee is occupied with the fact that the individual right of way is organised in a defence and good way. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party also point to the plural note on court structure from the budget last year, where one points to the importance of local unity attached to mergers. I'm a little uncertain about how important this is for the majority anymore, as one person doesn't want to refer to that comment. I'm also a little bit unsure of what to put in the ‘DA independent role’. The majority, from the Right and the Advance Party, write in their comments that they are concerned with DA's independence and their professional responsibility for developing structure and organisation. Does that mean that one no longer stands behind it as a formulation in connection with the budget last year, or is it just an unfortunate formulation? I would like an answer to that question. For my part, I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's comment in the same setting, where we said that 'combinations shall not be carried out now unless there is local consensus', and I doubt that that situation has changed particularly in the fall to now in ours. It should be a general rule that one has a filthwriter in the system of things. At the same time, I think it would be unfortunate to be categorically opposed to common rental some places, and I'm afraid that the consequence, instead of having a few places, is to lay down. For the Labour Party, it's important to have the user in the centre, and for us, it's important to have available legal facilities and legal centres where people live, and then we think it's better to have some common leases in some places than to start a new round of structural changes and mergers, as I have the impression that at least the Court administration wants, but also maybe some parties in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e222	Much has happened since this proposal for a representative was launched in April 2015. The proposal states that the proposers are concerned that joint management is a cutting-off of property rights. The right is that in this case we are dealing with a proposal for a representative to amend the Law of the Court of Justice, so that all the District Courts should have a petitioner who is responsible for only one office, and that we do not deal with the issue of the termination or merger of the District Courts. The last thing we've treated in the last harvest, in the treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2015-2016. Then a majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, said no to most of the proposals for aggregation mentioned in the proposition. The majority further indicated that there could be ‘good reasons for merging some dish dishes, such as Nordhordland district and Bergen district which are located in the same building, as well as Eiker, Modum and Sigdal district court and Kongsberg district court with the continuation of offices both in Hokksund and on Kongsberg’. The other mentioned aggregations in the proposition last harvest were stopped at that time. This majority, through its comments, stated that they had ‘no intention of carrying out more mergers now’, a ‘reform of charges that could affect the judicial structure’. Furthermore, consideration is given to legal certainty, professional environment and recruitment ‘essential factors that may affect the future structure of property law’. The feedback on the reviews of the proposals for aggregation last autumn showed that there were many shortcomings in the process. The same deficiencies proved to be present when it came to the joint management of the district courts. If such a project is to be successful, a good and inclusive process is important and necessary. Therefore, clear signals from the same majority on better involvement of all stakeholders in future assessments of changes were given during the last harvest. The signals that have now arrived show that DA involves the parties in a better way. Anyway, the people involved speak negatively. That there is resistance to change is something we as legislators have to be prepared for. Norway is a long-term country with a scattered court structure, which may require some flexibility. The regulation has now been amended so that, in exceptional cases, it will be applicable to the Joint Chief Justice. Based on just our long-term country and our difficult geography, it will be necessary to make a good assessment of what will be the best solution in each case, and what specific reasons underpin the assessment of joint management. DA has a professional responsibility for further development of structure and quality in the courts. They themselves state in their comments that the intention is to increase the flexibility of courts, improve resource use and reduce the vulnerability of courts within the applicable judicial structure at all times. Although there is resistance to change in some places, there are also examples showing the opposite. The so-called "district" and the Fjordane "district" are being run today by a common filthwriter. Soren writes Terje Mowatt indicates that this change has given a better and more equal offer to the population of Sogn and Fjordane. So this is an example of how joint management of District Courts can be a good alternative to both merging and not least preventing the abolition of a district court.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e243	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good speech and a good statement on the matter – and the representative Ebbesen for following up. In this case – at least as I see it – there is not much more to add. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important that one has local authority in the courts as far as possible. The thorough debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had around it by merging the District Courts, also meant that when we chose to go in as we did, and said that local consensus was required, perhaps the option was someplace rather to have merged courts, in the sense that one does not have local leadership. Joint management may be important to counteract aggregations in some cases. We also have to be honest that regardless of which governments have been sitting, it has been challenging in terms of the economy of the courts. One knows that, in particular, the administration of the Court of Justice has been concerned with obtaining mergers or joint management in order to improve the use of resources. Therefore, we have been concerned that it may be an opening, but at the same time we have underlined in the remarks that it should only be used in specific cases – as the Council of State writes – and that the home should be used with caution. That is why we believe what we did in the last budget, namely that it is only with local consensus that one can carry out aggregations, and that, in parallel to that, one does not choose to close the door that is the possibility of joint management, which is important. In this respect, I would also like to point out that where there is already joint management and which works well – Ebbesen referred to an example – this proposal would mean that one had to split up and hire new leaders. I believe that we have found a good solution that balances the considerations, and that is why we are going to vote against the present proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e254	All District Courts shall be led by a filthwriter, cf. the first paragraph of Section 19 of the Law of the Court of Justice. For some time now, the Court of Justice has introduced a regulation that allows several things to be handled by a joint author. In practice, this means that some courts will lose their daily rental, by the fact that the sorenprinter has a permanent office location in one place, and thus cannot participate in all day-to-day operations of several offices. This raises many practical and formal problem settings. At present, there is no politically initiated structural debate when it concerns the general courts in Norway, cf. The budget procedure in autumn 2015, despite the fact that some parties may appear to give a slightly ambiguous signal. It is therefore necessary for both the Stortinget, the Government and the Court of Justice to be aligned with the current division of offices. This also means, after the view of the Centre Party, that they should be led by a filthwriter in the location and that they should not be remotely controlled. The background to the proposal is that it appears that a practice has developed in some places, especially where smaller courts are concerned, that court leaders are not replaced when someone ends. This is regrettable, and then we think that the Storting must make the promise so that she is clear and clear. Every thing right has to have its sorrenprinter, that's the starting point for us in the Center Party. I find reason to refer from the 2016 budget setting: ‘However, the majority have no intention of carrying out more mergers now, pointing out, inter alia, that there is an appeal case which could have an impact on the judicial structure.’ Today's system in which some courts are lost for resources when a filth printer is no longer present in the day-to-day operation is, at worst, a form of snitching of courts, a first step on the road to closure, without an explicit intention. We in the Center Party find it strange that the parties who wrote the referenced note just a few months ago, today do not vote to stop a practice that could lead to the closure of the courts. Teeth are constructed in such a way that it is important that the rental is available on a daily basis. This applies to whether the court is large or small. The Sorenprinter has an overseen responsibility for the professional defence of the case and within acceptable deadlines. In addition to this, the sorenprinters attended the vast majority of the courts in Norway in the judgment of the Court of Justice in the same way as other judges. Without being part of the day-to-day operation of the Court of Justice, this is, of course, much more difficult. What is a court without a scapegoat? What's a hospital without a director? And what's a shot without a skipper? In any case, the answer to these questions is that good guidance and care are not provided when these functions are missing. The court laws are built around the principle that all courts should have their own filthwriter. It's because the country's districts make up their own districts. Then I'm surprised that the court administration challenges the law by constituting sorenprinters to also run the neighbouring office. This is usually the case when a crash printer has stopped. Even if you choose to introduce a joint lease for several district courts, there will be no fewer cases before the courts. Therefore, I cannot understand why some courts should be lost for resources. Instead, it leads to an increase in travel and subsistence expenses, etc. when those entrusted with the responsibility for more than one post are to travel between the departments of office. I mean, the Storting can't be passive about this. I shall conclude by quoting from the letters of the Council of State to the Judicial Committee in the matter: ‘A manager who is present only some of the time or who is mainly at another location will necessarily be less involved in what is happening in the district court from day to day. It cannot be excluded that this can have an impact on the working environment. It shall also be added that the professional environment may be reduced in the court in question, but the importance of this will depend on the size of the court and also on the manner in which it is organised to operate with such shared management.» In the end, I mean the plurality in Stortinget by not voting in favour of the proposal of the Centerpartie silently accepts that the Court administration facilitates the permanent closure of courts. On the other hand, the centre party will state that every district court must have its filthwriter, and that the district court in the country must have custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e284	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e287	I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e292	The representative of Jenny Klinge has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e295	In the Committee's comments on the State budget, most parties were quite clear that there was no wish for a large-scale pooling of rights at that time. The Left does not sit in the Committee on Justice, but we also expressed our support for it in the debate because there has been a point for us that such a merger of property rights as the Court of Justice saw separately was not feasible at that time. At the same time, I would say – as the case-rapporteur on this matter also said – that it is nevertheless difficult to be completely categorically opposed to joint management in some cases where this would be appropriate. It's related to the structure of the District Court that we have today, and the country that we actually live in -- it's city and country, it's long distance, there's some big District Courts, but we have a lot of small District Courts, too. I want to refer to the Christian People's Party Kjell Ingolf Roppstad, who said that a common leadership can also help to counteract the merger that the majority in this Chamber does not want at this time. So I think this is about finding a balance where we're quite clear that the general rule is that each thing's right has its own filth, but in some cases you can imagine that it can be a common management. You can't be completely categorical about it. At the same time, I am very pleased that the ministry is clear that such an exception must be exercised with caution and that it will only apply in exceptional cases. Because the general rule is and still has to be that we have to have a filthwriter in every district court, and we want to signal that we are voting with the majority of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e306	I will start by giving tribute to the rapporteur for having presented the matter in a good way, and of course also to the Central Party for their political ambition in this matter. I believe, however, that although the majority is now clear that there is no desire for a large-scale change in neither structure nor management, you cannot close your eyes to the realities of what is happening. It's been talking about changed geography. Norway is at my discretion the same country as it has been for quite a long time, so it's not that much changed geography. But it's clear that technology is changing, traffic and communication are changing, and in view of that, you also, I think, if not for so long, you have to look at and take a discussion about the number of things, too, because there are many states that have a lot of proximity between them. I mean, if you say you shouldn't look at it, almost in any case, you do the system, the inhabitants and ourselves a bear service. Even difficult things should be discussed in this Chamber. As others have said before, clarifying the relationship between the administration of the Court and the Grand Duchy is important, because there is something in principle in it. It was asked where the boundaries were going. The limits are drawn up here. By legal work they are drawn up here, and if you find good solutions there, you will have predictability. Of course, I support what is now the majority position, but I do not ignore the fact that we have to take another debate, which is going to provoke many, but which is probably as important as what we are discussing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e318	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for presenting the matter in a good manner. I also want to say that I'm happy that the majority lands where the majority does. I think it's right also because of the development the matter has actually had. One thing is the consultation proposal sent out by the Court of Justice, the hearing and response of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and then the follow-up of the Court of Justice administration. Adjustments have now been made to ensure that, of course, the general rule remains that there should be a filth recorder for each district court, but that exceptions may be made in exceptional cases. I think the reasoning about it, including those who have come from the pulpit, is quite correct. There will be some specific cases where there will be an advantage to having joint management. It does not help – as the representative Klinge from the Central Party said – to seize the courts for resources. It's rather the opposite that's going to be the case, because then you spend less time on administration and more time on judgmental activities. That is what in some cases can have a positive effect on such joint management. I broadly agree with the argument, which is very similar to both the majority and the minority, in this case. There are good arguments for maintaining the general rule with one sorenskrift per tenure. And even if one does not land at the same conclusion, the arguments for using this instrument with caution are very similar. I also want – in the follow-up to Ellingen’s posts – to mention that this hall and I actually impose very strong demands on the administration of the Court of Justice. They shall carry out proceedings within certain time limits, but at the same time they have very little flexibility in the organisation of their own activities. At some point, there is also a discussion that we need to take, because it is both about legal certainty and about treating society's resources in the best possible way. There are many considerations that need to be taken into account in such a discussion, but having this small possibility of joint management by some district courts in specific cases is an area of action that I appreciate the majority of the Grand Duchy wanting to preserve for the Court of Justice. Now – as the committee itself also mentions – there is an experimental system with common management in eight district courts. This should be evaluated. In addition, there is joint management of two earth-shifting rights. Following the evaluation of this pilot scheme, the Court of Justice will decide whether experience is of such a nature that they wish to maintain that scheme or not. So I think it is good that the court administration has taken this step by step and approaches this with some caution. I think that one by any of these cases will experience that having common management will actually be felt locally as something positive. Of course, it is also important to have the necessary local anchoring to the extent that this derogation is used, as it will be. So I don't think we're so very divided about the advantages and disadvantages of the different models. And although there is a minority who believe that we should prevent the ability of the Court of Justice to have joint management even in specific cases, I am pleased that the majority lands on the opposite side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e336	In the autumn and in the context of the budget, there was some concern about the structural issue of the District Courts. Today, things are all about urban rental, but it kind of hangs together. The Labour Party believes, as I said in my speech – and as the Minister of Justice also says – that having a quiet rental of some places can be an obstacle to merging. At the same time, I am a little concerned when I see the wording from the Right and the Progress Party in the matter, because there is a statement that one is busy with DA’s ‘professional responsibility for further development of structure and organisation in the courts’. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad refers to the plural comments before Christmas, where one says that one requires local unity. Can we just clarify which Right and Advance Party, or the Government, mean: Does it mean that there should be local unity before one can make changes to the court structure, or does one think that the court administration should be able to decide that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e343	Last but not least, Norway has a good tradition of dealing with such cases in the United Kingdom in some way. It was also the case with the last two rounds that were now in the budget, where the Storting clearly expresses what is the Storting's will, and that also led to a different result from that of the government as its starting point. But I believe that the general challenge raised by the representative, Mr. Wagzlid, in connection with the lack of room for action for the organisation of its own activities by the courts must be addressed at some point. Then I am committed to having a court structure that ensures that we have courts all over the country, but we also need to have a court structure that is effective, and after the last two rounds we have 64 courts in Norway. It's a pretty high number, and the flexibility of the answer to the courts is not equivalent. So at some point, I think we have to take a discussion around it. It's been tried before, and it's very often encountering resistance. Therefore, local consensus will be able to prevent such resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e348	Thanks for the answer. In the fall we were pleased that we had stopped the changes that had been proposed. When it's about the number of District Courts in the country, there's probably a little bit of a difference of opinion about whether there's a lot or not. For the Workers' Party's part, it's a value that the courtroom is close to where people live. But did I understand correctly that it is such that the Minister of Justice believes that what was formulated before Christmas about local unity was a kind of general rule, but not a requirement, as Kjell Ingolf Ropstad said in his article instead? Could we clarify that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e353	The government will have to promote the things the government wants to promote. The administration of the Court of Justice is free to make proposals to the Government on changes it wishes to implement. As I mentioned in my previous answer, the starting point is that local consensus will be a great advantage if one is to make changes in the courts, but I cannot say that that is an inevitable claim. We can also be in a situation where there's talk of merging not of two, but maybe of three things, where two things are very common and the third is disagreeable, and then having an inevitable claim I'll warn against. But that a process will get significantly closer to the target line if an ability to reach local consensus and shows that this actually strengthens the offer locally is absolutely this government's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e358	In the referenced letter of reply from the Minister of Justice, he stressed that the joint management of the courts would be useful only in exceptional cases and that the scheme would not be of particular benefit. Now we've heard Ellingen mention that if big things happen with communication and transportation, the relationship will be different, but at least I don't know that there are any such things around these relevant courts that have been given common guidance. So my question is whether the Council of State thinks that the fact that a filth writer is retired from retirement or retirement is such a peculiar case or a peculiar reason that one can introduce joint rental for several courts over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e363	There is no doubt that the resignation of a filial recorder could have an impact on where it is appropriate to implement such a change, but it is not in itself a specific basis – it would be one of several elements to be assessed. As I mentioned in my post, I and the government are concerned that we are going to have filthwriters in most of the district courts, but there may well be very special circumstances – there may also be cases where the district court itself wants joint filthwriters, just to reduce the use of administrative resources and release more resources for judgment. So I think it's important that when there are specific cases, there's a substantive requirement that the court administration obviously has to assess on a case-by-case basis, but it's not that this is meant to be a basis for taking shortcuts towards the abolition of property rights etc. These are definite, specific conditions that need to be met, after an overall assessment of what is the case in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e373	I am a little surprised that there are no more parties who have joined this representative proposal that all of the District Courts should have their own petitioner. In my opinion it should have been seaworthy. The court administration has put in place a regulation that has given us an innovation in the history of the district court. Now a sorenprinter can remotely control other things – probably technologically, we've heard. The motivation shall be to ensure good use of resources. Our experience and concern are dissatisfaction, uncertainty and less effective courts in the long term. If we go to the law, we must be able to assume that it has never been the intention of Section 19 of the Law of the Court of Justice that there is enough with one sorenskreter as the leader of several district courts. If the legislator had meant it when the law was passed, we have to assume that it had come from the wording. Instead, a majority of the Judicial Committee now sits still and looks at the fact that a stock of new arrangements, such as those affected, does not actually want. In my county, Oppland, this system is established at the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen district. After his retirement last year, he was not replaced. Instead, the district court is located in Wågå, converted into a branch of the district court in the South Gudbrandsdal, located at Lillehammer. Is there anyone who has asked the employees or local politicians in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen if this is desirable and good for the population in their district? Hardly, because then they probably had the answer ‘no’. Because what's going on? Well, a brave judge of resources, a mover of cases, and centralizing work tasks. It'll be more expensive, and there'll be longer waiting. In my county, since there have been so many cases in the South Gudbrandsdal District Court, cases are transferred to the Hamar District Court because one has too poor capacity – and this sail if one has an extra judge for both offices. And in the North Gudbrand valley, they're sitting without a sorenner. Hallelujah, President – I really call this too effective. In short, all attempts at the cutting-off of the North Gudbrand valley are now to be stopped, and I assume that the Council of State is following this. I note that the Ministry of Justice, in its hearing opinion on the regulation put in place by the Court of Justice and opening up this system, has noted that the scheme must be used with caution. So, one has to assume that the general rule still has to be one janitor for each thing. I therefore find it very strange that, when mergers of District Courts are taken away, one still chooses not to replace a head of the court who retires, as in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. I think these are unclean games, and unfortunately it seems that the regulation is adapted to hit the little ones. It is never too late to turn around, so I hope that the Storting will see the reality of this case and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e392	The president is a little uncertain about the representative's language, but let it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e396	As a magnificence representative of the Nordic countries and as a sacrilege, the innovation of the Court of Justice with joint management between several courts has come very close. The system has been practised by Alstahaug District Court, which has for a long time been remoted from Rana – a system that has created unrest in the Court and fears in the community that the District Court will soon be closed down. This is unfortunate, and I would like to stress that for the Center Party it is not appropriate to put down Alstahaug's District Court, and we also believe that they will get back their sordid writer. But not enough with that. Before the weekend, we could read in Brønnøysund's Avis that the court administration now also assesses whether the sorenskreter in Brønnøy should be replaced when the current sorenskreter goes off with retirement for the summer. This court is also judged remotely from the Rana District Court. In the community and the local policy environment, it is unisonably said that this is a non-wanted scheme. You can ask yourself what to do in the management of courts when you can accept that such solutions are launched. Is it true that three courts are ruled by one leader, and that one hardly sees its leader weekly? I'm afraid this is just a part of a plan that three District Courts on Helgeland will become one. Once common management is established in all courts, the courts are undermined, and the merger process becomes much easier at a later stage. We do not want this in the Centre Party. We have to think about the use of resources. We need to think about the employees and staff management, and we need to think about the case resolution at the individual court. Having an ambulatory manager doesn't improve this, and we don't think we can sit still and look at it. I noticed with satisfaction that the structural debate was being debated during the 2016 budgetary procedure. But what does that help when you see that there are all kinds of cutting processes, as we see now? The centre party takes this situation seriously. We want to clarify the law and say clearly that each thing right should have its own janitor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e415	I took the floor in the matter simply because I am wondering about the centre party and have a question. There is no doubt about the intention of the Central Party in the matter, it is very clear from the present proposal for a representative. But reference is made to the budget debate before Christmas for the justice sector, and my question comes out of the Central Party's handling of that debate, where we also had the structural debate. Then there was one case in the case, in the budget proposal, that Kongsberg District Court and Eiker, Modum and Sigdal District Court in Hokksund should have joint management, that is, the theme of the proposal for a representative today. What was the Central Party's answer to that case in the justice debate? Yes, I read both in the setting and from the debate in the Chamber that the Centre Party believes that Eiker, Modum and Sigdal districts and Kongsberg districts should be co-located – not joint management, but co-located – on Kongsberg, in other words, merged. That's what the Center Party meant that time. So my question to the Center Party now is, based on an honest discussion about an important topic: what does the Center Party really mean? Are you in favour of or against aggregation when it is appropriate, or have you somehow found a pragmatic approach, which means one day and the other day?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e422	I'll be brief. I know that Werp has been very eager to get this discussion up again before. What we've clarified and clarified in every debate about possible structural change from the Central Party is not that we're categorically opposed to change, but we're opposed to massive changes that can't be justified by the fact that one gets something positive out of them. When it comes to the current case that Werp is dealing with, where one had gone into common leadership, we got a message locally that they would rather have aggregation than a common lease if one were to make changes, and then we went to it concretely. But it is not in contradiction that we believe – as I said – that massive changes will be wrong without that being extremely good grounds for it. And finally, I would also like to make it clear that when we're so strongly opposed to the possibility of having a common lease on the property rights around and a common filth writer, it's because we think it has a great value that every thing has its filth. And as I also said in my previous post, it's because the sorenners are part of the dooming business around and then, of course, especially at the smallest courts. So when a person suddenly introduces a common lease, one in practice also misses a dooming resource in the courts where the writer is being moved from. So this is for our part about clarifying that we want to have a diverse court structure in the country ahead. We're not against all the changes, but exactly the developments that are moving towards opening up a joint lease, we think in practice leads to the wrong direction. That makes it possible in the long term, I think, to have more courts merged than we want in the Center Party. This is kind of the first step on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e447	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. The President will also propose that up to three lines of reply are given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e454	The issue of the pedigree paragraph is one of difficult and interesting practical and principal aspects. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank you for a good and open dialogue in the course of the procedure, even if we disagree with the conclusion. The purchase and sale of sexual services has been taking place for millennia, and we are not the first politicians to try to solve this problem of legislation. But if there's anything history has shown us, it's that legislation, even with the best intentions, can quickly have a different outcome than what's been intended. It is therefore very important in this area that we as legislators are extremely careful to go in and change the law, because it can quickly be more damaging than for help. I think everyone agrees that the prostitutes must not experience that the legislation gives them a more difficult everyday life than they already have, and we think that the proposal that comes from the Workers' Party would work against its purpose in many ways. To start at a slightly general and general level, this case also has a side to constitutional questions, it will have a side to freedom of expression. This has been pointed out in particular: The choice of data criteria and later by the Ministry that the issue could challenge the limits of freedom of expression. I think we should be very careful to adopt legislation that is not thoroughly addressed to constitutional issues. At a more practical level, it is very difficult to enforce such a change in law as this. The police will have to spend a lot of resources investigating whether an advertisement really has the content that you suspect. This is difficult – it's just to look up in the newspaper and read the ad pages there, so you'll quickly get into considerable doubt about what's actually being advertised for. I think it's more important for the police to focus on the core issues, to go after the traffickers, to go after the traditional hallucinations and the gross exploitation that occurs there. We also know that in practice this market will always find new ways. It can be very easily handled in practice; it is only a small technical solution that will be possible to circumvent the type of blockage and filtration proposed. It will be possible to move very quickly abroad, for example, and then it is difficult to stop that traffic without very interventional police action. There may at all be very many unintended consequences of the proposal. Another obvious risk that only needs to be pointed out is that the prostitution market can quickly go further underground, much more than it has already done. Where some prostitutes may manage themselves by self-advertising etc., this proposal may in some cases force them back into the more traditional hallicatures of the environment. That must be extremely undesirable from our point of view. Another feedback we have received, as I would also like to mention, is from the Pro Center, which believes that the advertising market provides them with a tool to get in touch with the environment and help them. Then we must not have a legislative change that makes it more difficult also for the supporters of the prostitutes. So I'm just going to make a little legal clarification, to the extent that it should be necessary. It is a majority of the committee's comments that call for a change in today's legal status, an extension of the Halik paragraph, but as it looks now with the vote in the Chamber today, it will not be a real majority to change the practice. It has been up in the Supreme Court, they have drawn some boundaries that we believe are still standing today. To sum up, the intention behind the proposal is certainly good, but we believe that it will work against its purpose. We believe it is important to give the police the methods they need to carry out their social mission in the best possible way, but this proposal is not such a good method. We will therefore vote for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e477	Legislation can also work. The Justice Committee has received feedback on several occasions, especially from the Oslo Police Department, that the law on sex purchase is one of the most important tools they have had in the fight against trafficking in human beings and hallucinations. But in the case of human trafficking and trafficking, it is a priority area with which the police in recent years have been working very well. The effort has been to identify and organise criminal cases and to take preventive action against the arenas where prostitution and the exploitation of victims of trafficking are taking place, namely in the outdoor market, the internal market and on very many websites. The Internet has created an advertising market where backers, pimps and traffickers can advertise prostitution of women, with a huge spread and spread. The plurality in the matter, which in the committee consists of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, takes seriously that the efforts against these websites, as the police see it, have shown that today's legal situation is not satisfactory. What is actually happening, according to the police, is the dissemination of women who are victims of some degree of inactivity or trafficking in human beings. We know that the police are giving up that around just 1 pst. by those who are posted on the relevant websites are Norwegian. The degree of exploitation will vary, from a low level of exploitation, where women also have much freedom, to a serious use of coercive force, threats and power. The majority will indicate that it is the police’s clear opinion that a certain degree of exploitation exists in a majority of cases. The majority in the committee believe that there are no adequate grounds for effective action against such sites today, and that the police are thus lacking the possibility of effective suppression of trafficking in human beings, something that the Storting and the government believe the police are going to defeat. In the view of the majority, there is a need for a thorough assessment of what should be the subject of Section 315 of the Criminal Code of 1902, of the prohibition of prosecuting others, and of the penalties for infringements of the second paragraph of this paragraph, which is currently six months old. Even when a breach of the law has been detected under Section 315, the Halik- and the Human Trafficking Section, the police do not currently have the possibility or technical means to carry out such a seizure themselves when the server is based abroad. On the other hand, it has been known by the telecommunications operators, the so-called ISPs, and the majority of the police have previously turned to all Norwegian ISPs in a specific case and asked for their help to implement seizures of the website. This means that one has asked the ISPs to use the same technical possibilities as a user with the so-called child porn filter to block the current page, so that it will no longer be available to Norwegian web users. The majority notice that some ISPs followed the call, others did not, and the police couldn't do any more as long as they didn't have the necessary laws. The majority agree that there should be a greater emphasis on the consequences of not having the ability to block websites with illegal content. When it's advertised with the sale of sex from women who are victims of hallucination and human trafficking, the websites still make it possible to exploit these women, without the police being able to stop the act, and society loses all opportunity to prevent or prevent future abuses. That means we can't continue. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposers have communicated that in paragraph 2 of the proposal there has been an error in the production of the document, so that only reference has been made to the Halik paragraph. This is also mentioned in the comments. The proposal shall be in breach of § 315 and the majority shall present the proposal referred to in the comments. I miss the time when I'm talking on behalf of a plural. I'm aware that we don't have multiples on the hearing today when this is the case. The left has indicated that they do not support this proposal. I think that's a pity. We should wish that we could make important changes together so that the police could fight down hallucinations and trafficking in human beings in the same line, no matter where it might be. But that's the way things are. I wish that one could at least meet us to look at the possibility of making changes. Because here, however, there is a need to give the police better tools in the fight against what I feel we are all a few about – to suppress both trafficking in human beings and peddlers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e496	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job in the committee and for a good account. Although – as he says – we do not agree, there has been a good tone in the committee. I would like to say that I agree with Mr. Vågslid's contribution, which I thought was better in substance. To start with the positive, the entire committee stresses that gross exploitation of people for either work or prostitution is a very serious crime, and that hallucinogenic activities – that is, promoting the prostitution of others – are totally unacceptable. The police have to do what they can to combat this. That's the intention we share. We probably want to go further than the government parties and the left, but it's important that this is at the bottom. When the Sex Purchases Act came, a large part of the street prostitution was moved in, moving parts of the advertising space from newspapers and other traditional advertising spots to the Internet. The new technology leads to new dissemination venues. Then it's our job as legislator to secure a piece of legislation that comes with it in time. In order to combat this, police have to be given better tools to prevent, detect and investigate ineligible activities by the police. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposals to ban insidious activities over the Internet. Trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. It is a serious exploitation of vulnerable people and must be combated by different measures. A very large proportion of those living in slavery today are being exploited for prostitution. So we have to do what we can to help people out of prostitution. According to the United Nations, between 25 and 27 million people live in slavery in the world today. We must not take our skyscrapers and think that none of them are here in Norway, because unfortunately they are. The Christian People's Party is therefore committed to ensuring targeted and good measures to combat this gross exploitation of vulnerable people. If we are to be able to combat trafficking in human beings and prostitution, we are totally dependent on the police prioritizing the investigation of this serious crime. But then they also have to be given the opportunity to actually do that. I have often referred to the work that has been done in the Hordaland police district, namely the EXIT group. About half of all judicial judges dealing with trafficking in human beings are from Hordaland. The reason for this is that they have had dedicated people who have made a formidable effort to fight the slavery of our time. I am therefore very pleased that this year's Christian People's Party has been able to see through the state budget that this important work that has been done in Bergen is now to be copied to all the police districts. The Sex Purchases Act, the Halik provision and the penal provisions relating to trafficking in human beings are closely linked and contribute to the fight against the slavery of our time. On Friday, the Council of State put forward proposals for increased use of communications control specifically related to trafficking in human beings. It is a new tool that will be important to combat the slavery of our time. If we are to be able to combat this gross exploitation that people are subjected to today, we politicians must do our job and adopt the right laws – in addition to giving the police the resources they need so that they can give priority to this important work. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the proposal for a decision in the vote as it is today. Now I am sure that the Council of State will later today share the commitment and intention of the important work that we have done, but also what the Justice Committee stresses, the fight against slavery of our time. I would also like to say that it is important for me that the government looks at opportunities to do even more to combat the possibility that is there today – to be hilarious on the Internet and advertise ads on websites, which the police today cannot get caught. When the police and ICT Norway point out that they need more homes, it is important that we – and I also encourage the government – look at what opportunities lie in order to do better work, and to provide the police with the tools they need to combat online hallic activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e517	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for a good representative proposal, which is very relevant from the time we live in. As legislators, we need to ensure that we have a law to protect those who are being exploited in today's society. Many in the prostitution market have lost the right to rule over their own lives and come here as a result of trafficking in human beings. Trying to prevent vulnerable people from being exploited is taking social responsibility. It will always be difficult to decide what should be done by legislation and what should be done by other measures. But when it comes to the specific cases mentioned by the proposers, with a plurality over the Internet, I think this problem must be met with promise changes. By doing so, we provide the police with the means of countering actions that cannot be reconciled with the preservation of human dignity. Countering trafficking in human beings and infirmities is a priority area for both politicians and the police. It must be a clear political objective that the backers and the instigators can be held accountable for their actions. We know that this is a human being who exploits others in the most brutal and preposterous way of ruining the lives of individuals. Then there can be no room where some can operate without fear of being taken. Prostitution is to disapprove of other people, and the police must be able to act against these kinds of actions, whether online or in other forums. That is why this proposal is so important, and therefore the Stortinget should make the necessary decisions on the matter today. The prostitution market is currently very inconceivable. The police were particularly tired of having control of what is happening online. A lot of the criminal enterprise is being transferred online, and the police have maintained that with today's laws they have problems with being able to close websites where there is clear reason to believe that criminal acts are being committed. When the Storting decided a few years ago to make it criminal to buy sexual services, it was because we wanted to counter this type of crime. It also came as a result that one saw all the other criminal actions associated with prostitution, for example. trafficking in human beings and well organised cross-border crime. When this type of activity can be run online today, by potential customers being able to sit online and choose prostitutes without having to expose themselves to the risk of looking at them in the street, it becomes much harder to counter the problem. A change in the law is necessary to give the police more tools in the fight against infertility and trafficking in human beings. The central party therefore believes that the proposals from the Labour Party are good, and are today with us as proposers – also together with the Christian People's Party. As there are several parties that are not on the Justice Committee, I am excited about what these parties are going to vote today. I hope that today's decision will be that the government will get Martians to produce changes in laws that make hallucinations, even on the Internet, punishable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e532	Sometimes the composition of the Committee does not fully reflect the composition of the Storting, and a majority of the Committee does not represent a multiple in Stortinget. That's the way it is in this case. The left is not represented in the Judicial Committee, but I would like to inform you that we support minority comments from the government parties and that we will vote against I in the committee's position and that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. There's two reasons for that. The first reason is practical. I have no doubt that the proposalers from the Labour Party have good intentions, but, as often before, in terms of prostitution, start with symbolic program decisions without talking to those who actually know the situation on the body, and without regard to the practical consequences for the everyday lives of the prostitutes. What is now proposed will most likely work against its purpose and, in addition, is difficult to enforce, as pointed out by the Department in its letter of reply. In this process, we have received good input from those who work every day to help and improve the status of the prostitutes. The case-speaker named the Pro Center, I want to name Nadheim, the centre of women and men with prostitution experience, which is part of the Church's City Mission. They strongly warn against the Labour Party proposal. Every day Nadheim operates outreach activities, including: online escort page, where they contact advertisers, to perform damage prevention, information work, provide help and share contact between individuals and the police where desired. I warn against the Workers' Party's proposal for three reasons: firstly, because one should distinguish between those who operate a website, and those who may be part of a backer's device and a prostitute, secondly, because blocking such pages will most likely only lead to advertising moving to other places on the Internet – for example. social media, where it would be more difficult for the auxiliaries to come to and orient themselves to provide appropriate assistance to those who need it — and thirdly that blocking such sites could lead to more insecurity and choice in the prostitution environment. The more unwieldy and chaotic market becomes – the more power in the hands of customers and backers. The left considers this to be a heavy and relevant objection to the practical aspects of the Labour Party proposal, which is the first reason why we oppose the proposal. The second reason why we're going against this is more principleal. It's about an alarming trend in the Storting in general, and in the Working Party in particular, that an ever-increasing demand on Internet vendors to block websites. We saw it in the case of changes in copyright, where the Left voted against it alone, and we see it in this case. This is a dangerous road, and this very hang for Internet censorship has to end with. Yes, one should defeat crime and crime on the Internet and other places, not least serious crime such as trafficking in human beings. But then it's those who break the law, it's copyright or criminal law, one must go directly on, not those who provide basic infrastructure in the form of Internet services. I understand that there is a tempting shortcut, but it is a fundamentally unfortunate shortcut. This type of blocking is not targeted; it can represent an intervention in the freedom of expression, as the Datacrimute option also argued when they opposed it. So I would say that the comments from the red-green show a lot to the so-called child porn filter, but this is not a good comparison because the child porn filter is developed in collaboration between Kripos and the web providers. This is a voluntary scheme, not a system in which the state or the judiciary through law enters and imposes blockage on suppliers. Both online providers, Kripos and Interpol – for the sake of the case – otherwise feel that this should be done on a voluntary basis. There is no doubt that the case and the problem are very serious. There is no doubt that one should use it of resources to counter serious crime, such as trafficking in human beings. But that doesn't mean that all proposals in this context are good suggestions, no matter how good the intentions may be. So I'm going to ask the majority of the committee to think about one more time, keep your head cold and go against the proposal that's on the table here today. In any case, the proposal will not be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e549	Let me first say thank you for the opportunity to take this discussion. It's a topic that's important, and it's a dedicated area. I am also aware of the political pressure in the debate – that everyone has good intentions here. But both the vote and the debate have made it clear that at least I am left with some questions that I will contribute to – at least try – clarifying a little. So first of all, a little bit to terminology. The majority of the committee has experienced that – also the representative Wagslid did so from the pulpit now – a kind of distinction is drawn between the pediatric paragraph and the penal law § 315, but it is thus the penal law § 315 that is normally referred to as the pediatric paragraph. So I guess it's an incursion when the committee's majority in the nomination refers to § 315 of the penal code of 1902. So it's the 2005 penal code that's right – just for the record. In 1902 the Halik paragraph was placed in § 202. Another clarification relates to the follow-up to the 2013 consultation note, on changes in the criminal law laws on violence and sexual offences. In a letter dated 14 October 2015 to the Committee, I announced that I was working on a proposal to follow up the consultation note. This proposition was promoted to Stortinget on 18 December last year, as Prop. 42 L for 2015-2016. It is currently under consideration in the Committee. However, the proposals in the consultation note on the amendments to the second paragraph of Section 315 of the Criminal Act are not dealt with in the proposal, but point 2.4 states that the Ministry will return to the proposals in a later proposal, possibly as part of an overall review of the penal code rules on prostitution. Then to the realities of the proposal. Firstly, it is important to point out that the second paragraph of Section 315 of the Criminal Code, which affects the «who, in a public notice, offers, mediates or seeks prostitution», already under the law in force, includes the publication of advertisements on the Internet. On this point, the second paragraph of Section 315 is already in line with what I believe is the proposal for Decision I. The essence of the matter, whether I understand the proposers and the majority of the committee correctly, is whether such advertising should be covered by the criminal law § 315 first paragraph. This rule affects it as ‘prostitution of others’. The first paragraph of Section 315 may also include activities on the Internet, but under current law, publication of advertisements is not covered by the first paragraph because the dissemination of prostitution is specifically regulated in the second paragraph. This applies regardless of whether the advertisement is made on the Internet or elsewhere. At the same time, the Supreme Court has pointed out that activities which are additional to the publication itself would easily lead to the establishment being affected by the first subparagraph. This may, for example: assist in photographing or texting the ad, etc. The proposal contained in the consultation note is whether the condition must be unequivocally removed from the second paragraph of Section 315 of the Criminal Code. There may be reasons that speak both for and against such a solution. The same applies to the option where the whole second paragraph is removed. However, such a solution would require a case-by-case assessment of whether the enterprise has promoted the prostitution of others, and the rule would not capture cases where the prostitute himself advertises his own services. In any case, it is clear that Section 315 of the Penal Code already covers activities on the Internet. That is why I believe that the recommendation for a decision you are not entirely correct on that point. With regard to the proposal to lift the penalty framework for offences under the second paragraph of Section 315 of the Penal Code, this should probably be seen in a slightly larger context and dealt with in a later proposition, which I have notified that we will come back to. The Penal Code § 315 does not provide for blocking — or filtering, as is commonly called — of websites with prostitution ads. However, as I understand the recommendation for Decision I, the question of filtration is no longer covered by the proposal for a decision of the Committee. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this, but just mentioning, as others have also come up with from the pulpit here: this issue was discussed by the Datacrimute elections in 2007. The majority of the sample did not provide a basis for proposing a legal framework for filtering, for example. Having regard to the freedom of expression and to the numerous possibilities of circumvention available, In the finalisation of the Special Part of the Penal Code 2008-2009, the Red-Green Government joined the Datacrimacy Election majority. An overwhelming majority of the hearing bodies also distanced themselves from the minority’s proposals for filtering. I believe that the red-green government's assessment in this area is still standing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e575	In the State Council’s reply to the Committee, a main argument — which was also used in the state council’s submissions now — is that it is difficult to determine which websites should be closed on the basis of criminal offences there. The police have told us about the opposite, that it is easy, by going into these ads and seeing that in some cases there are menus out for what kind of sex services you offer, and that it is easy to see that there is communication of sex, either by going into these websites or by calling the numbers that are advertised, and then getting answers and being told what services you are offering. In addition, what is contained in this proposal is that the police should go to the right to be informed that there is a breach of the applicable law before you can be allowed to block. So my question is, should such an assessment of the proportion of online crime decide whether to enforce the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e584	I have to say that I am a little uncertain about the device on the question, because as I perceive the setting, filtering or shutting down websites based on a filtering system is no longer part of the proposal. I see that it is part of the representative proposal, but it has not been followed up in the setting, as I read it. In it it is about giving the penal law §315 similar effect for the Internet as for other advertising sites, and that is the case already today, as I mentioned in my post. There are enough arguments to work against filtering. We heard the representative of the Left make a very good contribution to some of the counter-representations that, among other things, The data crismuth election came in 2007, and as the red-green government joined later. In addition, it will be difficult to hit international websites, and it is very easy to circumvent such regulations. So I think it's more important that we try to find something that's more focused than such an action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e592	I thank the Council of State for a technical and good report, although the conclusion was not necessarily quite equal to mine. It is true that the Council of State says that there is a certain difference between the proposal for a representative and what is currently in the position. As I see it, he is concerned that the laws are going to work, and in this case that the Halik activity is prohibited, whether there are advertisements in a more traditional way or on the Internet. Taking child pornography as an example, has a developed filter for it. I do not know how it happened, but according to the representative Rotevatn, there was a voluntary arrangement where one went to the providers and found good solutions. Will the Council of State possibly take this kind of initiative, or will it be more positive to look in that direction when it comes to being able to stop it, at least when the police say that they do not have enough law enforcement tools and tools to get their business online?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e601	I think it is a more constructive approach, because it is easier to achieve practical results. The police have taken such an initiative against some of these providers. Some have responded to their requests – others have not. But I believe it is also necessary in these kinds of questions to assess the kind of cooperation solutions that you have, for example. against child pornography. These are important measures that I believe will actually have more impact. At the same time, there will continue to be a great opportunity to circumvent the legislation and nevertheless make it difficult for some of the follow-up tasks of the police. But I am very positive about all kinds of measures that can help reduce the challenge of infirmity and improve the framework conditions of prostitutes. I think that is very good with this debate – regardless of whether we disagree technically with what is actually the legal status – that the commitment to this group is so strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e608	I want to follow this up a little bit with what we're going to do in the future, because we just have to see the defeat today on the subject of the possible legislative change. I'm interested in righting what the government council of my mind would be especially important to fight the problem of prostitution and this kind of crime that we've been talking about today, with pimping and trafficking in human beings. Is the Council planning new legislative changes or new measures to combat these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e615	There's a lot of ways to think about one thing. It can be seen as a defeat that no decision will be taken in the Grand Duchy to amend a provision that already affects what is meant to be the subject of the proposal. I wanted to see it as a victory, because that is when you have really achieved a success before any decision could be taken. So I think the representative Klinge should actually raise the flag today and not cultivate it as a defeat, and say that this is already in place with regard to the penal law §315 second paragraph, which concerns the Internet. We will follow up on the evaluation of the prostitution law and the impact of the ban on prostitution, and in this context it will also be natural to touch on adjoining themes and see if there are other things that one must then also be able to look at in order to prevent infertility. This is in a government process, and the government will come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with the follow-up to that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e624	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e629	It is obvious that the intention for us who are proposers, and also for the majority of the committee, is to achieve equal treatment in practice, equal opportunities to stop crime on the web that has to do with these forms of crime, which are otherwise. And it's clear in the setting: ‘The majority therefore support the police’s view that there is a strong need for legal entities that allow police to quickly and effectively enforce the Norwegian law to block websites with illegal content of some seriousness.’ Reference is made to a case that has been brought before the court, where offences were detected, but where there is no support, because there are no legal remedies to oblige these network providers to shut down or not to communicate these types of websites when they come from such ‘Internet service providers’ abroad. So it's the law houses, which are about equal to the practice of Norwegian law, whether it's on or off the Internet, that Stortinget places on, that's a major point here. I would also like to say that I find it a little difficult to understand what problems lie in this if you go in to practice Norwegian law. So it's not like this is going to happen at random, that you just have to shut down east and west. It is such that the police then have to go to the court and provide evidence that there is a crime – whether it is one or the other in Section 315 that the Council of State referred to – and have legal support for the existence of a criminal offence. So there's no risk of holding on here in the East and West and limiting freedom of expression. There will be the same constraints on the right of expression on networks as in other channels, which is the same law that should apply, but there is a lack of legal support for blocking these types of websites when they are disseminated from ISPs abroad. And there's a lot of other places to run a legitimate traffic on the web, so there's no danger that you should prevent online freedom of expression in this way. There will be the same constraints here as elsewhere in the world. It's always an argument when we're going to limit the sex market and fight infertility and prostitution, that it can go underground, and that it can be moved elsewhere, but the experience from the Sex Purchases Act is, according to the evaluation, that what happened was that we got a reduction in the market of 45 pst. So here we are inside a track that I hope you can take more seriously, and the council has notified a law work, so I hope he will look into the arguments then.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e645	Night until May 1st, two years ago, I agreed to open the Church's Bymission night café for prostitutes. But before this, we went out on the street, distributed slides and condoms, informed about the offer of help, while at the same time mapping how many were on the street, and who was there. This is an invaluable effort to reach out to sex workers on the streets of Oslo, something the Pro Center and the Church's City Commission do weekly. The systematic and outreach work is also done every week by calling the escort pages and advertisements on the Internet. This is the only auxiliary device – the only one! – line into the internal market, and weekly important damage prevention work is carried out in this way. There is little doubt that there is human exploitation in this market, people who are completely out of touch with the auxiliaries if this decision goes through. The representative Vågslid refers to the success of the Sex Purchase Act. There's a big disagreement about that. But she also shows that the police believe that the proposal will help to combat trafficking in human beings. This is also in contrast to what the auxiliaries say, the same auxiliaries that, through their contact, follow up rapes and link possible victims to the traffickers in the police. We must believe, we who have our daily work in this Chamber, that what is being promoted here is being promoted with the best intentions – regardless of how disagreed we are and what results they give. Personally, I deeply disagree with the Sex Purchases Act, but sincerely believe that those who are for have the best intentions. I am opposed to today's design of the Halik paragraph, because it is used to make an already vulnerable group more vulnerable. I also have to believe that this proposal is well-meaning, and if we put it off as a matter of principle concerned about making companies like Telenor responsible for what their customers use the Internet for, this is a proposal that will exacerbate the situation of those you want to help, and this also writes the Church's Bymission, Nadheim. The courage is not to stand on the pulpit with a controversial position in a liberal judicial state such as Norway. Being brave is not having positions where any of the worst things that can happen are anonymous lyrics on the Internet. Courage is to know that you have the world's most dangerous profession, that you are being countered by authorities that require you to pay taxes for an enterprise they condemn. The courage is to get up and live, regardless of whether it's self-selected or a result of a desire for a better life in a country that doesn't want you, and therefore gives you no other opportunity to support you than to sell sexual services in an increasingly dangerous market. Some have put themselves in debt to human traffickers because they thought the possibility of a better life was something other than what they got. Someone is exposed to human trafficking and has no debt to pay off and therefore no way to pay off, unless we find them and can help, and we should not cut that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e663	There has been an error in the configuration of the case, just as the Minister of Justice pointed out. I said in my post that we had changes to paragraph 2 of the draft representative, which seems to have become proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox So in reality, the setting has now become such that proposal No. 1 in the proposal for a representative is missing and the changes to be made to proposal No. 2 came in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Yeah, it got a little complicated. There is no doubt as to where the majority is concerned, but at least it can be recorded in the Minutes that proposal No. 1 in the motion for a resolution was to be put to the vote. I'm a little bit insecure formally looking at whether I can just do it again now. – No, not that. – At least we must have it recorded that it should have been there. It would have fallen anyway, but at least I've fixed it up, so there's no more confusion around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e672	Now the representative Rotevatn has explained the Left's view on this matter, but I still want to add some comments to what's going on in the fight against infernal activities and trafficking in human beings, because this is something that we're all committed to fighting, and that we don't want in our society. When we negotiated the police reform, which we carried on for a long time, this was one of the issues we raised, and on which we agreed to be a focus area for the police in the future. This is one of the reasons why we have made police districts bigger and more robust, so that they can deal with this type of crime, which is not only organised but also very complicated to investigate and deal with. We're doing something in this area. The police reform is now being phased in, and we have expectations that we will see the results of the work and the basis we have put through it – the near-police reform, as it is called. I would also like to make some comments on what Kjell Ingolf Ropstad brought up, as there was an agreement in the budget in the autumn. He referred to the work done in the Hordaland Police District, the work of the EXIT Group. Obviously, they have a way of working, they've been doing this, and they have good experience. Then it is important that this is something that the other police districts can do in the same way, with the results that Hordaland police district has received. Although we do not vote in favour of the proposal that would have been proposal No. 1 if it had been right in the setting, however, I want to make it clear that this is a type of crime that we don't want to have in this society, and that it's important that we fight. I think we have provided a good basis for combating this type of crime through important decisions taken recently by this magnificence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e683	I drew a brief comment on the post from the representative of Bohemia. When a representative of the judicial committee goes to the pulpit and says he doesn't understand why it's problematic to shut down websites as long as it goes through a courtroom, I think it's good to make a little comment about it, because this is a kind of issue that won't go away. So there's a difference between breaking the law by engaging in hallucination, and not least by trafficking in human beings, and offering basic infrastructure – there's two different things. To take a picture down to the analogue world of the city we are in, and the representative of Bohemia represents: if a person discovers that there is trafficking in human beings, a serious violation of the penal code or an incarceration in an apartment in Oslo, it is clear that one should strike it down, go in there, shut down that enterprise and put people in a courthouse, but one does not go to trial against Router to refuse to stop them in the street, or to sue Hafslund to stop the flow. These are two different things. I understand that in a digital age it's very tempting to walk around, and just say, instead of going on the crime we're talking about, we're asking Telenor to shut down the access to that website. I understand that there are temptations, but it is still wrong, and there is still a dangerous way to go, because there is an active tool that can be abused, and as I think the Labour Party in its proposal goes too far in proposing, and I hope that the representative of Bohemia will acknowledge, and that he understands the important fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e691	Can I first say that I am very pleased that the representative Iselin Nybø says that she and the Left are also in the fight against insidious activities, trafficking in human beings and people who force people into prostitution, at least there are parts of them who vote with the majority in this room, who mean it. I want to warn very strongly against those who stand up here and both romanticize prostitution and talk about the world's oldest profession and that at times we have had, and want, prostitution. In fact, some of us believe that it is important to combat the fact that people buy sex and not least that international organized crime exploits women in the way they do. The vast majority of prostitutes in Oslo and other major cities in Norway today are girls who are more or less, largely less voluntary, exposed to trafficking in human beings, and who travel to Northern Europe and Norway. International organised crime, at least before trafficking in human beings, served more on prostitution than on both arms trafficking and drug trafficking — and think a little about it. Today we have the Halik paragraph, which has been much discussed today, and I am very pleased that most people believe that it should be enforced in any case even if it is on the web or elsewhere the Halik business is running. The second is that we have a ban on brothels, and that is among other things. the prohibition often used by the police to fight housing prostitution. We have the law against trafficking in human beings, and we have the law on sex, and these laws have to be seen in a context. I believe it must be important to strike both the backers and the market, namely the sex buyers, because without the market we would have no prostitution either. I hope that we can come back to this proposal, because the more prostitution and online hallucinations take place, the more uncontrolled this becomes. I understand that the Council of State does not want to support a Document 8 proposal from the Stortinget, and then we see what the Council of State is doing in the evaluation of the Sex Purchases Act. We have no law against prostitution, I have to say to the council – that's how he expressed it – we have a law against sex purchase, and that's something completely, completely different. We're going to hope that he can come back to Stortingen in that evaluation and maybe also look at the proposal that's now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e702	It could quickly evolve from a debate in which everyone was very concerned that we were good at keeping posts and sharing the same commitment, so that we now start pecking each other at the more technical. But at least I would like to stress what the representative, Mrs Wagslid, was up to and said, unfortunately, there was a mistake in the proposal. I also used that in my reply, and therefore I would like to stress that what we have shown is precisely that the police can of course punish rogue activities online, but they do not have the opportunity to impose blocking of the kind of pages that are abroad. That's the question, if we should be able to give them more homes and tools to filter that kind of web page as well. That is why I took the floor to comment on the comments of the representative Rotevatn, because in the fundamental debates about this, it is right that one should be careful about blocking websites. At the same time, we agree that, for example: child pornography, a type of crime that is forbidden, of course, wants a filter against it, and I count on the representative Rotevatn to support it. As we write in the notes here: ‘The majority therefore support the police’s view that there is a strong need for law enforcement to allow police to enforce Norwegian law quickly and effectively by blocking websites with illegal content of some seriousness.’ We also want to expand it because we know that very many of those who are prostitutes today are exposed to human trafficking, and if you want to avoid people making money on ads on their websites, we also think it would be right to block that kind of website. But as I said in my line instead, the most important thing for me is to get results, that we make it harder for the pimps. If you rather want a voluntary system to avoid anyone making money on online ads, i.e. that you can provide tools or, in cooperation with the Internet service providers or teleservice providers, find solutions that allow them to block or want to block, then there is nothing better for me than that. But I also want to say that it is interesting that someone claims that this will not work, while you are very concerned that it is very important for the auxiliaries. If it does not work, it must also be possible for the auxiliaries to find the ads in other places. I record that there is a lot of debate going back and forth on the technical, but if we agree on the intention, we agree that advertising, whether it is on paper or online, is prohibited, then at least we need to find common means to ensure that the best possible way is to combat the infernal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e720	I think it was a fine clarification from Ropstad – that once a crime has been detected, the police must be able to go to court and get permission to oblige the providers to block those websites. But that presupposes that there is a documented crime. It is good that Mrs Lagen Waogslid will have the original proposal in the Minutes. When the committee in the setting states that web pages should be "framed in line with crime elsewhere", and the setting says that you have to have permission to block pages with illegal content on the network, I believe that it should be treated in the same way as crime elsewhere, that means that you have to give this home, and that it appears from the text in the setting. I would like to comment on what Rotevatn said when compared to an apartment and router, i.e. that is the infrastructure you are asking permission to block. I am aware that Rotevatn has a good bearing on the Internet, but I do not think that comparison was good. Routes are a big infrastructure. Once the police have gone to court and been found to commit illegalities, breaches of Norwegian law, on a single website, and this website will not comply with Norwegian law, but will continue to communicate illegal content, the police should also be able to cooperate in imposing no obligation on telecommunications operators to communicate information from that website. There are an incredible number of other websites, if you go into the Internet, where you can communicate legal content also in terms of dating and the kind of legal communication of such relationships. I would like to say that a website is closer to comparing an apartment than the entire Router infrastructure, and I do not think the example was very good. I would like to stress that what's going on is that there's a crime going on, as Ropstad said, it's fixed by the police, and you have to be able to go to court and get permission to oblige the providers to shut down and not communicate content from exactly those websites. There are very many other places to speak and also pass legal information on. Finally, I just want to say that the dissemination of prostitution, as there may be trafficking in human beings and insidious activities at the back, on such websites that also communicate illegal relations, flourishes and grows strongly, according to the police, and it's down to 1 pst. by those communicated there, which are Norwegian. There is a great danger that there are many people who are exposed to hallucinations and trafficking in human beings, and I think you have a superficial approach to it when you don't want to give the police this home to enforce Norwegian law online.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e733	After listening to Storting's 'explanatory' debate, you could say that the Greatness's ability to be elucidating is something variable, I think, with all sorts of respect. Those who read the minutes later, they're probably wondering what we're really doing. But it can happen in the best companies, as it does here now. Then I must say that I think the representative Nybakk goes far. I am glad to hear someone here in today's debate who has not distanced himself from the hallucinations and trafficking in human beings. I can see that from everyone who has spoken. I do not understand that someone has in some way tampered with it, and has not chosen to take a strong distance from it. Of course, one can disagree with the intention of the draft representative on the basis of which the debate is based, and it has been clear from the debate that it is quite different to understand it. The intention to contribute to reducing a difficult and tough everyday life and combating prostitution and infirmity, I am sure that all parts. But the certainty of the proposal has been the thematic one. After listening to this, my great concern has been that this is what the proposers claim, that the police are asking for a permit that the Council of State says exists. If that's the case, the clarifications of the Storting are permanently difficult, to say it like that. But you also have the opportunity to do things more than once. Governments have indicated that you should go through the law, and you should come back. And even the Storting gets better sometimes when you get to go some rounds with yourself and get things clarified. That is why we need to revise the law. If you don't say that the law that's passed will be true, and then we'll have to adapt society to the law. Fortunately, we don't. There have been reviews, various groups have been collected that look at this – reference has been made here to those who assist the prostitution environment. Listening to those who experience the problem as much as possible is probably the most important thing we do. Then it's to be matched against or filtered through a political filter and what you stand for yourself. This does not necessarily mean that you have to follow all the advice you receive, but that you have to listen to them. It must be a minimum of respect. In this way, I think that the majority in the storeroom today have done a good job, while also giving credit to the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e746	I'm merging into the sequence of those who want to solve. After the speeches by the representative Nybakk, I need to make a little clarification: my previous article was about combating insidious activities and trafficking in human beings. If, as Marit Nybakk says, I have used the word prostitution, it was not intentional. The left was against the Sex Purchases Act when it was introduced in its time, but I perceive that it is a completely different debate than the debate that we now have, which is primarily directed at insidious activities and trafficking in human beings. I would like to stress most strongly that no matter how well you look in the Left's ranks, I don't think you'll find a single person who wants to raise the issue of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e751	Interpreting opposition to this proposal as if someone were in favour of trafficking in human beings and violence is as if I were to interpret the proposers to believe that they would cut the only line into the internal market auxiliary equipment. But I don't. I sincerely believe in the good intentions behind the proposal, and I sincerely believe in the good intentions of those who are for the Sex Purchases Act – I just think that the consequences of it are completely different for those who are in this market themselves and experience it every day on the body. What comes from the auxiliaries indicates that I can be right about it. And then we disagree. They say that the systematic outreach work is done two or three times a week by calling the escort pages and the ads on the Internet, and this is the only line in which the auxiliary equipment enters an internal market that we do not otherwise have an overview of. I have agreed to call these advertisements myself. Often there are many ads for one person, often we get to talk to several people during the evening, and Nadheim says that during 2015 they reached about 500 people through this business. There are 500 people I want the auxiliary equipment to reach. The representative of Ellingsen pointed out that everyone had expressed opposition to human trafficking and violence. Actually, I didn't, because I honestly thought it was unnecessary. This is Stortinget, not a parole meeting on March 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e758	I am actually pleased with the contributions from Ellingsen and Nybø, also for her last post. I commended Nybø in my previous post to be ready to fight infirmities, trafficking in human beings and prostitution, to fight those who use prostitution to make money, not the prostitutes themselves, but the backers, organized crime, etc. Haliculture is prohibited. But when crime is detected and the police have to be authorized because they have no authority to go to the right to block websites, this is a problem, and we are without the means that we really need. Then I'd like to say to Heidi Nordby Lunde when she talks about auxiliaries: yes, there are several auxiliaries. If the representative Nordby Lunde had contacted the crisis centre secretariat in Oslo, she would have heard that it is those who often take in foreign prostitutes who have been on the street and in apartments for a long time. A few years ago, the police managed to take some Turkish hallucians who had a total of 60 Bulgarian prostitutes. If you listen to what the Crisis Centre Secretariat says about what terrible constitution these girls were in, they were physically and mentally damaged, destroyed in the abdomen – I don't know what you think this business is for – it's absolutely vital that we get the hallucinators and the backers in what is one of the world's biggest markets, next to human smuggling as we see it today in the Mediterranean, and of course weapon trafficking and drug sales. It is vital that we continue to work to prevent what is the greatest slavery of our time, trafficking in human beings by forcing women – to a large extent young women and children – into prostitution. As I said, I am pleased that representatives of the Right, in particular the case rapporteur, of the Left, and also of the Ellings, have also made it clear that we are opposed to human trafficking, against insidious activities, and that we do not stand so far apart. But I guess I see it as the Council of State, among other things. will not be governed by Document 8 proposal from Stortinget. That is why we get to believe that he too is prepared to look at this before he possibly file a case for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e767	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e770	I would just like to make a brief comment to the representative Ellingen. I saw that he came continuously into the Chamber at the end of the debate, and from the pulpit he said that the Council of State says that there is a law ban at one point that is clarified in the debate here. Once a crime has been detected and the police go to court with it, the question is whether there should also be a legal basis to oblige providers to close websites based abroad and which transmit illegal content. That home doesn't exist today. It is clarified through the debate that it is about the enforcement of Norwegian law also in terms of content communicated by telecommunications providers from this type of website abroad. What is at the heart of this case is that one should have the same practice of Norwegian law when it comes to communication from that type of website.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e779	This has been a rather interesting debate, based on many different types of misunderstanding. The misunderstanding I thought I could no longer be listening to is that the representative Nybakk for the second time from this pulpit says that the Council of State will not be guided by Document 8 proposals in Stortinget. Let me first say that it is the Storting that makes decisions, and it is the government that follows up those decisions, completely independently of how those decisions are designed, and the premises for them. However, a prerequisite for a State Council to be able to take the lead in decisions in the Storting is for proposals to be made in accordance with what they wish to be put forward. This is the problem in this debate: there is no proposal in the debate, in this case or in the vote in line with what Mrs Nybakk said. So there's no suggestion that you should open up a home so that you can close these Internet pages. Then I understand that it is due to a mistake, but it is not such a proposal that the Council of State can be guided by. What is present in the proposal for Decision I related to the amendments to Section 315 is already the law in force. So there's two different things. And it's a necessity – at least from this Council of State – to express that I have no problem letting myself be ruled by the Storting. I think it is a very important democratic principle that it is the elected assembly that does it, but then the precondition must be that a promoter of the proposals that a government council believes should be governed by. I am in any case pleased that the majority in this Chamber do not agree with either the proposal that has been put forward or the proposal that has not been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e792	I noticed that the representative Boehler has seen me coming running into the hall. Then he must have come in after the signing, because I have been here since the meeting was set. The security of the meeting is in line with what he has presented here today. Enough about that. The representative, Marit Nybakk, was once again in and out of the Chamber, and I felt this at least, against the role of the Council of State and what the Council of State is doing. I think the Council of State was very correct in its last presentation, because it's a fact that a minority government is highly dependent on the majority for its things here, and rules as said after what it becomes the majority for in this room. If not, the Council of State does not have so many alternatives, as I see it at least, other than finding something else to do or adapting to the reality of the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e800	There are still representatives from the Labour Party at the top of the speaker's chair here and give the impression that Norwegian law does not apply on the Internet. He's doing it. And if there's a crime on a Norwegian website, one can of course go to the police, one can go to the court and get an end to it by taking down the website or ending the illegal activity. What you can't do is go to Telenor or NextGenTel or anyone else who offers Internet services, and post a censorship of a website – yes, even a foreign website. It seems that Jan Bøhler and the Workers' Party have zero problems doing. But I'll ask them to think about that, because there's an important difference in principle. There is a lot on the Internet from abroad that is illegal under Norwegian law. Does the Labour Party think that one should be able to go and ask Telenor to close the access to websites that have beer advertising? Could not close temporary folder: %s There's a lot of examples of that. If the Labour Party thinks it should be free, they get suggestions on it, but it will be a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e834	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e848	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e855	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation and goodwill in getting a thorough and good handling of this matter. It has led to consultation, the opinion of the Health Committee and the finding of joint decisions by the Committee. I think that's good. The case considers three considerations: firstly, the concern of society and its victims, the concern of those who commit repeated criminal and criminal acts, and who are too healthy to comply with existing laws in the fields of mental health and criminal law, but who, because of their illness, cannot be sentenced to prison, and thirdly, the purpose of which law society should use as the basis for this use of force. Should it be governed by civil law, or should criminal law apply? The matter is important, and although not many are involved, it is about serious interventions in human life and how society views disease and acts committed by sick people. The view of society on disease and tolerance or intervention against acts committed by sick people are important borderlines in a democracy. Of course, the other parties have to answer for themselves – and I expect them to do so – but I have seen in the discussion of the matter that all the parties see and recognize this dilemma, and that there is a recognition across the committee that it is difficult to be sloppy. The case has remained in place since 2009, after the hearing was completed. It may have something to do with complexity, but it may also have to do with the fact that it has been working in parallel with other neighbouring studies and projects. Follow-up of NOU 2014:10, from the so-called Charitableness Committee, is under work in the Department. And the project "Between All Chairs" ends in ours. The conclusions and follow-up to this investigation may affect what we adopt today. After careful consideration of the need to wait for the conclusions of NOU 2014:10 and the evaluation of the project «All chairs», a Joint Committee concluded that a decision on this issue now needs to be reached, with the proposals for decisions reached by the Committee. The setting refers to the purpose, which is to protect against future harmful acts. There shall be serious offences and no special reaction may be used, for example: winnings and damage works. It also states that responses to criminal offences should not be punishable by criminal law and should not be placed in institutions under criminal law. Furthermore, it is established that serious ill offenders are, in principle, the responsibility of the healthcare system. The proposals of the members of the Health Committee of the Workers' Party shall be deemed to be covered by the proposals for decisions made by a Joint Committee on Justice. The setting refers to the need for better coherence before, during and after insertion and good cooperation between the agencies. All departments have provisions for cooperation and interaction with others in order to succeed in the task of the law. The purpose paragraphs tend to refer to the overall objectives. Most of the persons covered by this provision are already in contact with health protection, municipal services and criminal justice. The Committee's proposal for Decision B, you make it clear the government's responsibility to ensure the follow-up to the fact that convicted persons for special reactions are to be guaranteed a good return to a non-crime life. In the case of proposals for Decisions B, II, on evaluation, it is considered that an assessment is also made as to whether a civil law basis could be applicable. With this, I would recommend the Committee's position, and I would like to signal that the Workers' Party will vote for both the proposals of the Centre Party and the Left in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e881	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Committee very much for having a unanimous judicial committee behind us in dealing with this legislative proposal. The rapporteur has explained the matter in a very good way, so I just want to link the comments of the Right to it. The aim of extending the scope of the specific criminal law responses is to address the need for society to be able to protect itself from crimes that have a significant impact on other citizens and society if they are committed repeatedly. It is an objective that judgment on specific reactions should be carried out in a way that meets the individual’s needs for treatment. When such a proposal has a unanimous judicial committee behind it, it is justified by a need we have long seen, both to protect society from repeated criminal acts and to help people enter the psychiatry. The starting point of Norwegian law is the principle that mentally illegitimate people should not be punished. In order to be punished, one must have criminal indebtedness. However, mentally ill people can be cared for by means of mandatory mental health protection, but this only applies if they commit or attempt to commit crimes that violate life, health or freedom. The main purpose of this access is to protect society from serious harmful acts. At the same time, it's all about taking care of mentally ill people who need help. Now a majority of the Grand Duchy wants to extend the rules to include some other types of crime. It has turned out to be a growing problem that someone who is unpredictable by criminal law commits persistent, plagued and socially harmful crime. This may include repeated acts of violence, acts of warfare, burglaries and the crime of profit. The consequences of today’s legislation are that those who commit this type of repeated acts can neither be held by the police nor be taken care of by mental health protection. The people involved fall out on both sides because they are criminally unpredictable, as well as not committing serious enough crime to be dealt with by the psychiatry. The further consequences of this are that these people fall outside society, and they create fear and discomfort for the environment with recurring crime. This makes it clear that we have to stop them and at the same time make sure to help them. An example from reality is from Trom's police district, where repeated burglaries were committed by one who was too sick to be judged for his crimes. He's in the police records with almost 200 cases. With today’s legislation, he has the opportunity to continue the criminal activity without the possibility for the authorities to put an end to it. Another example that current legislation does not respect the general sense of law has been taken from the evaluation report of the MAS project in Trondheim. When a person registered with 173 criminal offences even expresses that he has a ‘free card’ when apprehended or searched, we see that the general sense of justice is weakened. Norwegian legal tradition and the underlying principles should always be our clear starting point. At the same time, the general sense of law in society must also be taken into account. In this case, the general sense of law suggests that there should be access to the protection of society against repeated and plaguing criminal acts committed by unreliable persons. In addition, it is essential that the judgment on mandatory mental health protection should address the individual’s need for treatment. Special reactions shall contribute to the provision of the necessary assistance to seriously mentally ill people who do not receive help voluntarily. The people involved are not picked up by our system, and they often continue in a trail that is undesirable on the part of society. Therefore, the scope of specific criminal law reactions is now extended to repeated offences of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature, if necessary to protect society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e900	I think I'll start by moving a little bit away from the proposition itself. Sometimes I think politicians – legislators – would have wanted to replace the population, because they get critical questions, they're accused of lack of action, and they don't deliver in relation to expectations. Of course, that's not possible. This part of society is being replaced regularly, every four years, fortunately, there are smokings, and that's good, because it shows a dynamic system that does what needs to be done. When it comes to making and designing laws, most of the laws should be general, general and have some principles that carry them. Nevertheless, there is a need for narrower laws to address and solve societal problems that may affect fewer, but are nevertheless important. I feel that what we are invited to today is what the case-rapporteur said in a good way. It's nothing new that this is being discussed. I had the pleasure of attending to treat the principle part of the Penal Code in the spring of 2005. Then this was a theme of equal line to what's today. The national lawyer challenged the legislator – the Stortinget – at that time either to have more people punished under the criminal law or to raise the threshold so that more people could get under a special reaction. It wouldn't be the Storting at that time. The size said that we had to look at this, reduced sample sizes, and today we are going to discuss what we are going to do with this – if you go a step further. I think that's good, because it shows in a way that things are not static, they're dynamic, and you take on the challenges you're facing, because, like others have been in front of me here now, we can't have individuals who – I almost said – commit crime legally. It would be in a way to play down, and it would be very bad for those who are victims of the same crime, to see those who have done it walking around freely. Perhaps even worse — what about cases where you have backers who cynically exploit this group of people, who cannot be punished? Can we have it? The answer is again that of course we can't have that. That's why you have to look at challenges and put in place a system that works for these too. And I think it's quite right as others have said, that what they primarily need is help, but it'll also be that when you do this, it'll show that society doesn't accept what they've done. Last week I had the pleasure of discussing with employees at the Brusset in Trondheim about their cooperation with Trondheim prison. One of the challenges they met with me and the representative, Leirstein, was the obligation of professional secrecy between health workers and those in criminal care. I don't think we've solved these challenges with what we're doing today, but I hope that at least we're going in the right direction, and I'll of course also challenge the Council of State to look at the taushets challenges that are being promoted from the respective sides. At the same time, I also want to give honor to the Council of State, because although it is not directly within the scope of this extension, this government is doing something that has not been done before, with the project that you run on Ila, which shows that even within the prison walls – within the prison population – we are going to take action to protect the weakest of the weakest. It's on the side of this, but still it shows a direction by the government that makes me proud of the results we have. Having said that, I don't think I'm going to say anything but wish the Council of State luck with the job, and I'm sure that if he has more things he wants to do in that way, within this and other challenges of social change, the Storting is prepared to assist even better than we did in the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e917	The issue we are about to adopt today is complex because it affects some of the core of our criminal system. The starting point is that persons who are illegitimate in criminal law should not be punished because their actions are not punishable in the same way as those who are imputable. As a starting point, psychotic persons should be provided with help and treatment rather than punishment. As of today, we have two specific criminal acts for unpredictable persons who commit criminal offences. Persons who were psychotic or unconscious at the time of action may be sentenced to mandatory mental health protection, while those who were highly mentally retarded at the time of action may be judged to be compulsorily concerned. The aim of the rules on specific criminal law reactions is not to have a criminal law character, but to provide individual treatment and assistance, while protecting society. Serious mentally ill offenders are basically the responsibilities of the mental health system, and it still has to be. It is important that individuals receive treatment and help to live a life without crime. The changes we are adopting today are not an extension of who can be sentenced to a criminal reaction, but for what cases. Until now, it has been possible to judge only by a special reaction to protect society in terms of life, health or freedom. It is now extended to cases of repeated offences of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature. What are we going to do with people who repeatedly commit crime and who fall between two chairs because they are either too sick to be punished, or are too healthy, so they don't get treatment? It has been under debate for a long time. It is therefore good that a unanimous Judicial Committee approves these amendments. I would like to stress that it is important for us that it does not mean that one is overstepping the places of day-care that are already for those who need it today. It is important, when more people are judged for this, that the budgets also take account of it. For the Christian People's Party, expanding the area for the special reactions is not an end in itself. I am therefore pleased that it is explicitly clarified that the threshold for imposing a special reaction is still to be high, but I am pleased that people who repeat crime and who are not getting help anywhere are now going to get it. We as legislators have a responsibility, not only to provide individual help, but we also need to ensure social protection. It has become a growing problem in recent years that people who are lawless, perpetrators of criminal and social crimes such as acts of violence, armed forces, burglaries and profit crime, and then without anyone having been able to intervene. I am therefore pleased that we are today able to provide help for the individual, while safeguarding the protection of society. Those who are subject to a special reaction based on repeated offences of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature shall be ensured good treatment to ensure good return to society and to prevent the criminal activity from persisting after the termination of the special reaction. That's good. I am also pleased that the changes need to be evaluated, and that statistics are to be carried out, so that we can get knowledge of whether or not the intention is respected – and in this way can fulfill the purpose of the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e936	We, as legislators, have the responsibility to adopt a law that protects the sick, but we also have the responsibility to protect the inhabitants and society from being exposed to crime by both healthy and sick perpetrators. When someone continues to do new criminal acts that are a particular scourge and harm to other people and to society, we must thus find a solution. The change in the law we are now debating is about finding a solution for people falling between two chairs. Although social protection is an essential part of the objective of legislative change, it is also an important part of the objective of providing better treatment and follow-up to people who have not yet received adequate follow-up. This is a difficult case, there's no doubt about it. It's about people who are too sick to be put in prison, who repeatedly do criminal acts that have not yet been defined as serious enough to be condemned to a criminal specific reaction and to be convicted of mental health protection. In addition, it is often problematic to have these people jailed for custody, and the result is that they are inside an eternal criminal racetrack. The Judicial Committee has held that the number of perpetrators of a certain category does not determine whether a law is necessary. A low number of perpetrators who fall within the scope of the new laws is not considered an argument against adopting changes in the criteria to be sentenced to criminal specific reactions. We state that the concern of individuals who are exposed to this form of crime can justify that action is being taken. In these kinds of cases, there are two areas of concern that need to be addressed: the care of social protection and the care of the mental health and the welfare of individuals. The group to which the law amendment will apply is a group of people who are easily thrown into public bodies. It is easy that no one takes responsibility, and that everyone is trying to push the problem further. By changing the law, we give the courts and prosecutors a tool to take care of these people in a different way than before. I myself have been delighted to visit the project ‘Between All Chairs’, the MAS project, in Oslo Police District. There, a small group of people in the target group is worked systematically. It's about people who have done a lot of crime, but where the individual events were not so serious. In some cases, however, it was more than serious enough for the police to see that something had to be done. There is reason to stress that there is an advantage to all police districts working systematically on this type of problem setting. The goal must be to prevent people who are unencumbered by criminal law from developing a criminal career that makes the only solution possible to judge them as a particular criminal reaction. Then it's not enough that only the police are working on this, of course. The health service must also make an effort for this group and provide an offer, as far as possible. Other actors, such as municipalities, are also the most relevant. Examining someone for a special reaction is particularly intrusive, and expanding the range of special reactions is thus not unproblematic. But although social protection is an important part of this, it is also about increasing the possibility of helping those who commit crime. If the individual has major mental problems and does not seek help himself, it is important to get help anyway. There are some things I think are right to highlight. Firstly, responses to unreliable lawbreakers should not have a criminal character. Such offenders should therefore not be brought to institutions under criminal law. The second starting point is that seriously mentally ill lawbreakers are in principle responsible for mental health. This means that the healthcare system is given responsibility not only for treatment but also for social protection, if it poses a risk to life, health or freedom to others, and now even if someone continues to commit crimes of a socially harmful or particularly painful nature. We have to make sure that the psychiatry is dimensioned so that they can accept this group without having consequences for others who need help, because we know that the psychiatry is already pushed. In practice, there is a danger that people in need of psychiatry will lose their place of treatment when we now expand the group that may be condemned for special reactions and forced mental health protection. This is what we think in the Center Party will be completely wrong, and we strongly urge the government to make sure that there is enough capacity in psychiatry to avoid this. That is why the Central Party believes that it is necessary for the Stortinge to adopt the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the capacity for day-to-day treatment in psychiatry so that patients do not lose access to mental health protection treatment as a result of new law on specific criminal law reactions.’ I include the referenced proposal from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e965	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e968	Now several of the representatives who have spoken before me have had a review of what the proposed changes mean, and I am therefore not going to spend any time on it. But this is not a simple matter, and although there is no disagreement to trace in the Justice Committee, this matter raises some fundamental issues. There is no doubt that there are some people today who perpetuate socially harmful crimes while they are unprovoked by criminal law. A review referred to in the case shows that there are a large number of cases pending because there are doubts as to whether or not the perpetrator is liable to criminal proceedings. It's challenging for a society to have such people when there's no reaction that can be used, and there's no dignity for the individual that the whole neighborhood knows that he's committing such crimes and getting away with it, or that these people are being exploited by the backers because you get away with it, as the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen was in. On the other hand, there's a reason why these people are talking about this, is criminally unreliable. The Ministry itself points out that counter-representations are both principleal and reasonable, but it nevertheless concludes that the list of special reactions is too high today, and it therefore wants to lower the threshold so that crimes of a socially harmful or particularly distressing nature can also be met with special reactions. There is an overall judicial committee in agreement. In the hearing of the Committee, it was, in particular, the Association of Lawyers that was clear that the proposals put forward by the government were problematic, because they break in principle and fundamentally with long lines in Norwegian law. They were concerned that the proposed changes would lower the threshold of what society and we as citizens should tolerate, and what we should be able to demand protection from, and that it should also be viewed against the burden that a special reaction would be for both the sentence and for mental health protection. These concerns and considerations are something we largely share in the Left. We therefore want the matter to be sent back to the government, and that it returns to Stortinget with a follow-up to the NOU of the Liaison Committee, where these proposals are seen in a larger context. I understand that the Justice Committee has made that decision, but has come to the conclusion that there is a need to make those changes now, and not to wait for that discussion. Here we disagree, because we believe that these are proposals that are not so urgent and that one can wait for the NOU to be dealt with. I would therefore like to address the Left's proposal with this in mind. Subsidy, we will vote in favour of the Committee's position on B, I-III. With regard to the proposal of the Central Party, I think it is good, but it is a budget proposal, as I see it, and nothing we can vote for here and now. But I assume that the government is following developments and the consequences of these proposals for health, so that there will be no reduced capacity in psychiatry as a result of more people now coming under this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e985	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e988	Let me thank the rapporteur and the committee for a thorough and good job. This is a very important topic, and I'm glad that the committee has been very thorough about these issues. I also want to stress that this is really a really happy day, because this is not a problem that has emerged overnight. This is a problem that has been a continuing major challenge and has been the subject of political engagement for many, many years, but there has been a greater degree of political disagreement than what it is fortunately now. It's a pleasure day not only because a person better protects society from persistent, very painful and partly very harmful crime, but also because the people who commit this crime are now given an offer. I think it's important to stress that this is really a case that lands with only winners, I would have almost said. Because it's a well-known case that the people who have committed this type of crime have fallen between all the chairs. They cannot be sentenced to punishment, but they are not sick enough to be sentenced to either compulsory care or treatment. It has created major challenges and has given them a kind of free pass to commit crime. It is very harmful to society, but it is also very harmful to those who commit this crime, and not least to those who are victims of this recurring crime. It's partly quite serious crime that's being talked about here, and very often events that don't happen once, but that happen many, many times. For this reason, I am pleased that the Committee supports the government's proposal to extend the scope of the specific criminal law responses, so that persons who are unenforceable by criminal law and who repeatedly commit crimes of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature can be sentenced to mandatory mental health protection or forced care. Finding solutions for this group of offenders raises a number of fundamental questions, and therefore I am pleased that the committee has spent some time doing this and has gone into it thoroughly. I believe that the proposal we have now put forward takes good care of both the protection of society and the illegitimate lawbreakers. I have noticed with interest that the Committee also wants one to evaluate these legislative changes after three years and keep statistics to ensure that one follows this group closely. I think it's a good improvement on what's been the government's starting point. To go through the effect of this law through an evaluation I think will be good. It's positive, and it's also important to get more knowledge about what actually works. Statistical presentation and follow-up of the statistical basis are an important measure. So I just want to comment very briefly on the proposal from the left. I am very pleased that the Left, if the postponement proposal falls, which it actually does, still supports the vote. I think it is a very good signal, and it is also important that the Storting with the force behind this. We're working in the Department on the follow-up to the Assurance Committee and will return to Stortinget with its follow-up. Although it is adjoining and, insofar as issues which partly overlap between this proposition and the attitude of the Committee of Assurance, I do not agree with the representative, Nybø, that this does not have an urgent perspective. This is a matter of urgency when it comes to social protection, but not least to the individuals who commit this crime, who do not receive the follow-up they should receive. For this reason, I believe, in the interests of both the victims of this crime and the perpetrators of this crime, that it is very wise for the Stortinge to make a decision based on the basis that is here today. It is a matter that, in my opinion, is politically overmature. We've been dealing with it for very many years in different ways. I am very pleased that the government is now delivering good news to those who have been subjected to that kind of crime. We prevent more victims, and we offer an offer to those who commit this crime. So it's a very good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1010	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1013	The Council of State has brought the matter before the Stortinget without having been assessed either in the Ministry of Health and Welfare or in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, despite the fact that the implementation is to a large extent just below those departments. During the discussion in the EEA, the Committee decided to consult and obtain a health policy assessment of the content, and the feedback from the Health Committee and the Hearing Officers pointed to the challenges related, inter alia, to: capacity, both in terms of economy and resources. Throughout the country, mental health protection is building down daily places, and municipalities report heavy pressure on services. The government has made room for 20 billion. kr in tax cuts, while the commitments made to hospitals and municipalities are not financed according to promises and needs. State Councils have provided a setting in which health services have been assessed and the follow-up of health services has been assessed. I'm assuming that priorities have also been made, so that this becomes a reality. Can the Council of State guarantee that the intentions of good follow-up are just that – a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1018	I will try to answer that question by first peeling away the rhetoric and the claims that I believe it is not the basis for coming along, and rather relate to what is the serious part of the question. The government is the one who is making this proposal. That means that the government has decided that this should be presented. Of course, there has also been consultation with the relevant departments, where they have had the opportunity to make recordings in an entirely ordinary way. That means that the entire government -- of course -- is behind the contents of this proposition. But then I believe that the representative addresses a problem that is both important and relevant, namely the follow-up of those who are subject to special reaction and forced care. It is quite clear that one must be concerned that that offer should not lead to others, for example. loses its offer and therefore pays attention to its development. But we don't know how many people will be judged, either for special reaction or for forced care, so that's a question we have to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1025	I thank the Council of State for a good report. As the Council of State was in and underlining, this is very positive for those who are, who are now being followed up, and who have previously fallen among all the chairs. Therefore, it is also important to make sure that they get a good offer. But then, as the representative Henriksen challenges the Council of States, it's a matter of resources at last. Societies will have some savings in avoiding crime or any other kind of follow-up. Therefore, one can also say that resources are released that can be used to provide the care and follow-up that these people need. My question is actually a little bit the same as Henriksen's: what does the Council of State do to ensure that this does not mean that those who are now subject to a special reaction do not get good enough follow-up, or that the follow-up of them means that others no longer receive the treatment they needed, or that they receive today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1032	Let me first say that I think the representative, Ropstad, has a very good point in terms of what can be saved from social expenditure. The socio-economic savings of this proposal I think will be quite significant. In addition, it will also reduce the burden on the perpetrator of crime, and not least on the perpetrator of crime. Overall, I think that would give you a very good calculation. As far as follow-up is concerned, it will of course be followed up in the tracks in which it is to be followed, and it is essential that a follow-up is closely linked to ensuring that a person has the quality and competence of those who are convicted of special reaction and forced care, but also ensures that the offer is otherwise good. This is a government that has invested a great deal in this area, and that effort is motivated by a desire that we should give as good an offer as possible to those who need this kind of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1039	Then I can follow up the two previous questions by going even a little further into the question, because I appreciate the fact that the Council of State determines that health and municipal authorities, i.e. other actors, have to be strongly involved here. But what I want to know is that they, i.e. the government councils, have a clear ambition that this change in law should not lead to patients in the mental health system losing their place because there is a new group coming in when this change in law comes into force. One thing is to say that a person wants to make sure that it's not going to be crazy, but another thing is to say that one has a clear ambition that the number in daily places, for example. In psychiatry, the number of people entering treatment should be increased as a result of the special reaction, so that people in need of treatment may not be at risk of losing treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1044	Let me first say that it is not possible today to say how many will be convicted of special reaction or forced care on the basis of this legislation. There have been some estimates in the proposition. There's a very big element of uncertainty in this. It also means that we have a small overview of what kind of costs this could in the long term lead to. Few people who are convicted of special reactions or forced care will result in relatively low costs, while the opposite will, of course, lead to an increase in costs. I want to say that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has invested a lot in mental health and offers to people who are struggling with different types of mental problems, including in the areas we are talking about here. Therefore, I think there is reason to assume that, when we say that we should follow closely on this – follow up both the offer given to these people who are being judged on these reactions, and also, of course, the offer of the rest – the government and the cooperation parties will continue to do so as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1051	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1056	Nor should the non-indebted person be punished be a fundamental principle of Norwegian criminal law. But the non-indebted person actually has a rehabilitation potential. It is then important that society can equip itself with the tools needed to provide treatment when faced with such a situation. The whole purpose of this legislative amendment is, in fact, to protect society from unpredictable relapse criminals and to contribute to safe communities. We have examples of unpredictable criminals who have committed a significant number of criminal acts. It's really unsustainable that lawbreakers have been able to carry out extensive criminal acts without society being able to intervene and stop this. There has been a lack of hope in some local communities, who have witnessed this and have been waiting for the state to equip itself with the tools needed to deal with such a situation. Common to today's special reactions, forced mental health protection and forced care are that only those who have committed serious crimes can be condemned for special reaction. Other offences, such as: Profitability and damage works may not be subject to a specific reaction. The aim is to capture those who are so sick that they cannot be sentenced to prison and who are not caught up in today's rules on mental health protection, that is, those who fall right through and are not caught by a safety net. The government believes that the individual’s freedom, including the freedom to refuse treatment, in such cases must give way to providing adequate protection to other people. The government has therefore proposed a change to the penal code. Persons considered to be unenforceable by criminal law shall be entitled to be subject to the imposition of mandatory psychological health protection in the event of repeated offences of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature if necessary in order to protect society and other citizens from such offences. Let it be clear: in principle, serious ill offenders are the responsibilities of mental health protection. It's solid. Mental health protection should continue to safeguard social protection in the context of specific criminal law responses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1067	Thank you for the speeches and the debate. I interpret it this way, and we also see from the proposals in the matter, that there have been strong signals from a cross-political collapse that this follow-up should be good, and that two aspects should be taken into account. One is to prevent crime, and the other is good follow-up of those who are in the situation that they commit this crime. That is why one has proposed evaluation and statistics, because it is not simply for a committee to deal with a number material that is so diffuse and that cracks as it has done in this matter. That is why I believe that the committee has reached a good decision, that has been a good debate, and that has been a good point. Then I look forward to this being a good follow-up. Then I have to solve one thing, too, because I have read the Left's proposal incorrectly. The Labour Party should not support the Left’s proposal – just as it has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1074	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1088	Representative Jenny Klinge, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1091	I'll be right there, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1096	You have 30 minutes of speaking time, but you might have a long script.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1099	I am aware of being a distraction, so when I do such things, my son uses to say, ‘and that’s what will govern the country!’. I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. It is the position of a co-consultant, where the Judicial Committee is in agreement with the Government's proposals for changes to the Verjemsladen Act and other related laws. However, I would like to stress the importance of the successful implementation of the defence reform. The protection system is necessary to preserve the interests of those who are unable to do so, often the weakest and most vulnerable among us. I would like to quote the following from the setting: ‘The Committee would point out the importance of the proper implementation of the Verjemsser reform and that the Ministry should follow the way in which it operates the law and implements the reform.’ Verjemålsreforma is major and has led to strong conversions. The Committee expects that the government will follow this work closely and that they will assist both with adequate resources and with any clarifications in the law where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1113	The representative can comfort his son that she is now in opposition. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1129	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1136	The first speaker is Mr Anders B. Werp, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1139	This paper deals with the role of police in the national crisis management. It is a follow-up to Stortingen’s request decisions in the context of the reform of the police. From New Year, the number of police districts was reduced from 27 to 12. This structural reform gives police districts greater capacity and competence for crisis management and crisis management than the smaller districts had in the past. The pillar is that police districts have the primary responsibility for crisis management in their districts, and that the four principles of preparedness on responsibilities, equality, proximity and cooperation should be laid down. These principles are well incorporated into crisis management in all emergency and emergency seats. In addition, several measures have been launched at the operational level of the police to strengthen crisis management as a subject. Interactions between police districts and special agencies are reviewed and practised. There is a 24-hour situation centre, which shall be the permanent contact point of the Police Directorate in emergency matters. At the strategic level, the Crisis Support Unit of the Ministry of Justice has been significantly strengthened, the civil protection system has been revised, national emergency plans have been established, and competences and improvements to technical solutions for safe communication and information sharing have been implemented. The Storting Communication also discusses the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission on a scalable national operational centre. The recommendation of the Government and the majority of the Committee is that a national operating centre should not be established. The considerations underlying the Commission’s recommendation in due course are recommended by the measures mentioned in the EEAG. Here are the different views in the committee, where the second view is presented by others in the debate, I would assume. The majority justify their view of a national operational centre that the capacity to manage crisis management in the new and larger police districts has increased. In addition, administrative assistance procedures shall be established between the districts and two backup centres shall be established – in Oslo Police Districts and South-West Police Districts respectively – which may enter in the event of exceptional incidents. A National Operation Centre will conflict with the principle that each police officer is responsible for and is in charge of police handling all incidents in his own police district. A national operational centre added to another police district and another operational centre may create unclear responsibilities, which would be very unfortunate in major and acute incidents. The government has taken many measures in addition to the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission and requests from the Storting. This makes the country safer, and the authorities are better able to face crises, but we must never forget that the risk-free society does not exist, and that there can be crises no one has foreseen or planned for. And just then it's important that we have clear responsibilities, good competences and resources that can still meet and deal with the situation. It is in this light that we must see the present big message. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1160	I would also like to thank you for the cooperation that has been in the Committee on this matter. When Stortinget now deals with Meld. St. 13 for 2015–2016, it is with background in Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015, which we discussed in the context of the reform of the police, cf. Inner. 306 S for 2014-2015, where, on the initiative of the Workers' Party, a unanimous decision was taken that the government should present during 2015 a case with proposals for national crisis management in which roles and responsibilities were to be clarified. The communication we are discussing today describes the role and responsibilities of the police as the central response actor and highlights the Police Directorate's coordination and coordination responsibilities in the event of crises and serious incidents. The July 22 report of the Commission points out that the police operating centres were not equipped and manned on the fatal day of July 2011 in order to play their role in major incidents. At that time, we had 27 police districts and 27 operating centres, and today it's reduced to 12. The Labour Party agrees that the new Operation Centres established in the context of police reform will have greater capacity and broader competence to deal with serious incidents and crises than was the case with 27 police districts in the past. The Yeast Commission proposed the establishment of a national scalable operating centre in Oslo. I see that instead it is proposed that two operating centres, Oslo and South-West, respectively, should have established ‘neighbourhood assistance’ procedures and also be able to step in and provide assistance in particularly demanding situations. I believe that this is the basis for pointing out that it is not likely in the message that one will have good enough routines and be well enough trained within such an organisation as is proposed. I have read what is written about standardisation of operating centres and training of those who are to serve on these centres. A scalable operating centre, as proposed by the Commission, shall be able to take the lead in a national crisis and shall be able to manage operational efforts in several police districts. This needs to be done, it needs to be done often, and we are doubtful about the solution proposed in the communication we are now discussing, and therefore believe that establishing a scalable operating centre in Oslo would be a better solution. In connection with the establishment of the Police Directorate, Stortinget Ot.prp. No. 7 for 1999-2000, Central Police Department. In the proposal, a separate chapter is devoted to discussing the theme ‘Central Police Management and Operational Activities’. This was an important principle topic which was widely discussed and which had been the subject of a broad consultation, where several hearing bodies were critical on a principle basis for the directorate to have operational functions or an operational role. In the proposition, the ministry concluded, a conclusion supported by the Stortinget during the treatment. I quote: ‘Only in exceptional situations should the Director of the Police Directorate be able to intervene in operational activities. This may, for example: concern matters of substantial national importance, or where this may be indispensable for the conduct of police operations. Such intervention may take the form of the fact that the Director of the Police Directorate either uses his or her commanding authority, even assuming responsibility for the police operation, or entrusts it to another police officer or to the head of a special body. The starting point should be the appointment of a accountable operational manager.’;» I am of the opinion that the establishment of a 24-hour situation centre in the Police Directorate, as described in this Communication to the Stortinget with the function of the Situation Centre and the operational role of the Police Director, challenges the understanding that was used in the Ot.prp discussion. point 7 at that time. It is also our opinion that the message had been stronger about this principally important theme had been discussed in the communication that is being discussed in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1184	For my part, the organisation is not the most important thing, but the quality and understanding of the individual who is to exercise leadership. Whether it's added to point (a) or point (b), it's finally going to be subordinate. What it's about, is that the individual man and woman know what to do, when to do it, and with whom. The second is a purely organisational factor in this, which I believe is secondary. I agree, of course, with those who have said in the past that practice is a key. Of course it is – what you have to get good at, you have to practice. If you can't end up with a perm that says something about what to do when crises occur, but then you have to find your perm first, and then you have to read it and understand it. It's not necessarily good management. Practice does master, and that is something you can safely say also in the case of Norwegian police. It is probably also a fact – as others have been told here – that 22 July 2011 showed that we undoubtedly have an improvement potential, both in terms of management conditions and in terms of understanding and implementation of what has been put in place in order to manage, for example. the protection of society. The near-police reform must be part of this. Greater proximity to the population, larger districts and more competence together should initially give the results we want. I'm among those who want to lift a finger when it comes to POD's role in this. Of course, I want the police officers to essentially solve the problems they're assigned to solve, but of course, it can also be that POD can assist and do something where the others get short. But initially, there can be no doubt that the police districts themselves are going to do this. I have also looked at what is written about the main rescue units. I have to say that if there is something that makes me proud as a Norwegian citizen – a Norwegian citizen – and a Norwegian politician, these are the two main rescue agencies we have, which I believe are doing a formidable job, probably because they are not a big competitor to anyone else. They coordinate resources, and they're run by the police. I think that's good. I also think it's good that it's close – and I assume it's going on – and close cooperation between the police and HRS, precisely because you have to do each other better by asking critical questions about how to do things. I had some time ago the pleasure of going to the Defence College, to the Chief of Staff. There was one mantra that went on again, which is obviously also important: never forget where in the chain you are, and never go into anyone else's area. If people stick to what they're going to do, and if they're good at their job there, it'll give them a better totality. As they said, a rescue operation should not be led by a state council. There are obvious reasons why he shouldn't – or she, for that matter. But again, we can discuss organization until the sun goes down on the outside, but it won't help. It is the quality of the individual that is the key to success or to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1206	The primary task of the police is to ensure the safety of the population. They shall prevent, detect and combat crime. When the crisis occurs, we are totally dependent on the fact that the police have trained and trained in different situations, so that they know what to do, how to do it, and not least who should do what. Unfortunately, the terror that struck us on 22 July 2011 showed that we were not well enough prepared and that we need to ensure police preparedness to a greater extent than we have done in the past. The police have been evaluated by a number of authorities in recent years. The Gjørv Commission report gave a thorough review of police forces and weaknesses, and as a result of it, last year the Stortinget adopted a new police reform in which the majority commissioned the government to assess the national crisis management. When the crisis occurs, it is absolutely essential that we have enabled the police to react quickly in order to avert potential damage. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice and Security has presented a communication on the role and responsibilities of the police as the central response actor, with particular emphasis on the Police Directorate's responsibility for coordination and coordination in the event of crises and serious incidents. National social security and preparedness work is based on the principles of responsibility, proximity, equality and co-operation – principles that clearly state how the core wall of preparedness is laid. Responsibilities and role-clearance are crucial in this effort not to create responsibilities powderisation. The July 22 Commission recommended the establishment of a National Scalable Police Operation Central as part of the Oslo Operation Centre. The background to this was the need to coordinate police work when the crisis occurs across multiple police districts, or exceeds the capacity of each police district. This recommendation came when the police districts were divided into 27 very different police districts, taking into account both the number of inhabitants, the number of cases and crime. Now the police districts are divided into 12 and are in many ways more alike. Not least, they are larger and are better placed to cope with major crises, and the principle of subsidiarity is also used. In addition, two so-called backup centres are now being established, one in Oslo Police District and one in the South-West Police District, which will maintain and facilitate national crisis management in case of major incidents. These centres will provide good assistance to the affected districts. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the needs expressed by the Gjørv report are now met with these changes. However, to ensure that this will also work in practice, it is essential to exercise and train so that cooperation can work if the crisis occurs. The Labour Party and the Centre have expressed concerns about the new situation centre of the Police Directorate. They believe that this raises doubts about who is in charge of the police. I don't understand. A majority of the Committee, i.e. the Right Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, has stated the following in the setting of the message: ‘This majority indicates that it is essential to ensure good crisis management in an emergency situation that the responsibilities of the operational function have been clarified. This majority refers to the establishment of the Situation Centre and Report. St. 13 does not alter the responsibilities of the Police Directorate in relation to the operational function. [[2015-2016]] This majority refers to the Innst note. [[2014-2015]] 306 S on the near-police reform of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, where the following was pointed out: «The majority further indicates that the main task of the Police Directorate is to provide professional and administrative support for the work of police districts, so that they can solve the tasks themselves. The majority underline the main lines of Norwegian police where operational responsibility lies in the police districts and special agencies.’ This shows, in the view of this majority, that there are no uncertainties about the situation centre of the Police Directorate’s mandate related to operational work. The Police Directorate shall not be able to take over and oversee the operational work of the police districts.’;» If we are to succeed in the preparedness work, it is important that there is no doubt about something that is absolutely not unclear, just to make political coins. It'll weaken the police's preparedness, and then we'll all lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1234	One of the greatest challenges facing society in recent years has been to equip us to deal with the major crises. We unfortunately showed on 22 July 2011 that we did not deal with that crisis as well as we should have done and should have wished we had done. After that, there has been a broad political recognition that something had to be done. The near-police reform was an absolutely necessary reform to better enable the police to face future crises and serious incidents. One of the most important steps we did in that regard was to reduce the number of police districts to twelve, so that each district became more robust and better able to deal with all kinds of crime, including the most serious. Police operation centres are an essential part of the preparedness in this country and are crucial when the crisis occurs. After the near-police reform, we have had even fewer operating centres, and these are now being co-located with the fire brigade centres. So here, too, we have provided for good trade unions and heavy competences in each police district. There is no longer a need for a national scalable operating centre at POD, as recommended by the Gjørv Commission in its time. However, it is important in the future to focus on the role of operational centres in the event of major crises, because good management of such events requires both planning and practice. And I will, like several others before me, stress the importance of practicing, training and being well prepared when the crisis occurs. It is also added that there should now be two so-called backup centres, which can assist in major events, or if something should happen at one of the two operating centres. It is Oslo Police District and the South-West Police District that should have this extra responsibility. There are several people who have talked about the significance of it, and I want to add that I think it makes sense to add these two centers to each of their parts of the country, because something could happen that affects one part of the country so significantly that having just one central one place, or having both two close together, would have been unfortunate and perhaps disastrous in the worst case. There has been some discussion about this with the role-sharing between the police districts and the POD. For my part, I see that this is clarified and quite clear, and I also want to stress the importance of it being so clear, because it is now the police districts that have operational responsibilities – not the POD, which some people seem to have so little doubts about. But I believe that the majority of the committee has well described and made clear in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1249	Let me first thank the case rapporteur and the Committee for a good piece of work, and I would like to refer mainly to the rapporteur's statements on the material content of the matter, and will not comment on it much more. I am also very happy that the Workers' Party signals that they are very pleased with this message. I think that is positive. There's a couple of areas where there's still some disagreement, and I'm going to focus on those areas. One is the National Operation Centre. I have to say that I had actually believed that the Workers' Party would take this opportunity to say that, based on the broad consensus we have on the new near-police reform where we go from 27 to 12 operating centres, we no longer need a national operating centre. Nevertheless, I note that it is an element that the Workers' Party – together with the Centre Party – is very much in doubt, without having to worry about it at all. In fact, the setting states that the Centre Party and the Workers’ Party will ‘point out that it is not likely that you will have good enough procedures, and be well-trained, within such an organisation as is proposed’, with these two backup operations centres. But a national operating centre could be satisfied with this. First of all, I believe that there is no basis for the claim in the setting. Secondly, I believe that the responsibility for clarifying the option is waived, for whom should this national, scalable operating centre lead? Is that Oslo police district? In that case, Oslo police districts should take over responsibility from, for example: South-West Police District and Finnmark Police District in the operational management of a current incident taking place in more police districts? What does it say about the division of responsibilities? Who, then, has real responsibility for the operational elections? Is one police officer responsible for the operational elections and another responsible for what is actually happening at the scene? No solutions are proposed from the Workers' Party. They don't even bother with this. Then the other option had to be, for example. the Directorate of Police is to direct this National Operation Centre in this type of event, but it is completely on a collision course with the other disagreement of the Workers' Party, where they refer to Ot.prp. No 7 for 1999-2000, on how to understand the role of the Police Directorate in the national crisis management. So one presents an option without justifying it and without showing how this should be in practice and actually contributes to the fragmentation of responsibilities and unclear responsibilities, instead of the opposite. I think that's unfortunate. I believe there were good discussions about the need to have a scalable operating centre with 27 police districts. I believe that those arguments are no longer valid when there are 12 police districts. There are good arguments to have reinforcement capabilities if someone were to get challenges on their own operating centres. We are now solving this by having two centres that are strengthened to deal with that kind of event, both by contributing to ensuring competence and handling as a form of neighboring assistance or assistance – it doesn't have to be neighbors once, it can be anywhere in the country with the new systems that will eventually come into place – and by ensuring that the Police Directorate gets the role they are to play in the national crisis management. In fact, they have the role of contributing to clarifying the kind of gaps in responsibility for events occurring across police districts, helping to prioritize the resources we have put together to deal with crises, not least they have an important role to play in the area of enforcement assistance and the management and clearance of enforcement assistance. What is the alternative to the situation centre that the Police Directorate now has is a one-hour call-out system. It is too bad for modern crisis management. The fact that we now have a 24-hour situation centre in the Justice and Emergency Department, which this government has put in place, the fact that we now have a 24-hour situation centre in the Police Directorate and are working on the same in the PST, strengthens our preparedness significantly. It makes the lines clear, the capacity ready, and it helps us get timely information. Therefore, both changing the perspective of the role of the Police Directorate in these situations and the proposal for a national scalable operating centre will not help to strengthen, but will help to weaken the capacity that we are all out there to ensure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1272	I have also noticed that on several occasions the Council of State has marketed a new situation centre in the POD with operational terms, and the Council of State has stated that it should provide assistance, but also review decisions in the individual police districts. I have also recorded that the Council of State has defined this by saying that this should happen in very special cases, without explaining what this really means. He has also clarified that the situation centre should not replace today's operating centres around the country but act as a complement. This is not explained, nor in the post that was made now, and therefore I wonder if the Council of State can now explain what this supplement is all about. And what are special situations where you're going to relieve these twelve operating centers around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1281	I would like to know when I have said that the situation centre of the Police Directorate is going to review operational decisions in the police districts. I guess I'm not allowed to ask a counter-question, but it's very tempting, because that's not true. It's never been the purpose of the situation center. It shall address the coordination and coordination of information. It shall ensure that one makes optimal use of the national response capacities. The role of the situation centre has been very important — for example: in the case of simultaneous incidents in several police districts, priority must be given to which districts should have the different capacities. In the case of a supplement, it will be able to assist with the competence to support the operations of the operational centres if the operational centres need specific competence. It can help to establish contact between police districts with a particular competence, and that is, therefore, the focal point in terms of enforcement assistance. This is a significant strengthening of our preparedness management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1286	I venture on a slightly open question to the Council of State, for now there has been a lot of talk about training and practice in preparation for any major crises or major events. I would like the Council of State to say something more about this – how it's done, how we're sure there's enough training if or when something big happens, and like the special role that Oslo police districts and South West police districts have in taking over and helping others, and the communication that's going to be between the different police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1291	First, that's a pretty big question. I'll try to concentrate this very much. Firstly, we are now helping to ensure that the competence of the operational managers is better than it has been in the past. We increase the entire level of competence of all operators in the operating centres, also because we need to ensure that they have a more equal and standardised background, so that you can work across the operating centres independently of geography. In addition, exercises, local exercises, tablet exercises and major exercises are carried out, including at national level, where one is tested for national crisis management capability. We're still, really, in the kind of practice mode where you get to test how the systems work together, and hatch weaknesses and follow up those exercises quite thoroughly – in a completely different way than before. When it comes to the last question, I didn't get it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1302	Since the president is so straightforward and allows for an additional question, I repeat the question that is about Oslo Police District and South-West Police District and how the police work especially with exercises directed at the two police districts, which may have a slightly special role in major incidents and crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1307	Now, the Police Directorate is working to establish the framework for these two enhanced operating centres to be set up. We are now building operational centres across the country, and we are building up competence. It'll take some time. There is extensive work to be done. What is the main point of these two enhanced operating centres is that they should be able to take over if another operating centre in another police district, for example. exposed to sabotage and going down. They shall be able to contribute to the management of events, such as reinforcement, but also to take over tasks where necessary in the event of specific events. It also means that operators can switch between and travel to these enhanced operating centres by having the basic competence they need is important. In practice, they will have more operator centres than one has in other operating centres. And I very much agree with what Mr Nybø said in his statement: the fact that this is located in different parts of the country, will have a very important effect in preventing falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1312	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1330	In our democracy, participation is important, and participation is to be representative of the population. No parties in Norway would think of going to elections and openly saying that they would have less equality or a form of government where some groups have the right to more power than others. To succeed in representative democracy, we need governance tools. The social contract to achieve this between the governing and the community is enshrined in the Constitution, the Main Agreement, the Main Agreement on Tariffs, the Agreement on inclusive working life, the Civil Service Act and the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on grounds of sex, ethnicity, religious faith and sexual orientation. The reporting and activity obligation provides an overview of the situation and what has been done to achieve the objectives of the workplace or the establishment. In the 2016 budget, this report clearly showed that the judiciary, and especially the police, lack the power and equality we want. And what are the challenges? Well, it's about challenges we can count, and challenges that have to do with attitudes and thus culture. The figures for 2015 show that, in some areas, gender imbalance in paid monthly pay is slow and even in the wrong direction in terms of gender equality and police diversity: there are few female leaders. Only 4.4 pst. had a migrant background, and despite almost 45 pst. Women's share, which is good, is clearly underrepresented by women with power and responsibility. 28 pst. was responsible for human resources, and only 16 pst. was in charge of police positions. The Joint Police Association, female employees and police students have provided insights into unculture and illegalities in the police. There are situations where women's sex and appearance are the topic of conversation between male employees at work and in social contexts related to work. In the wake of the transparency and reporting of such events, there have been reports of exclusions and reactions that could scare employees from addressing such cases, as two students described in the newspaper last May. There are also questions about recruitment and recruitment practices: Is there cultural relationships more than qualification relationships that underlie the inequality we see in positions of power and leadership? Is it the internal recruitment culture that creates the biases? When we dealt with the police reform in the autumn, the main requirement of the Workers’ Party was that it should also be about culture and leadership. Professor Stig Ole Johannessen of the University of Nordland stated to Dagbladet that both general discrimination and sexual and career harassment are about an organisational culture that in many ways depends on the rest of society. But that's good intentions. Both the police director and the state council have indicated that discriminatory culture and illegalities are undesirable in the police. But it's not just unacceptable, it's illegal, and the responsibility to do something about it lies with the Minister of Justice. In the media, he has been perceived as being somewhat debatable, and he has not taken the equality work seriously. But he has said that he does, and I expect him to give some feedback today on how he will continue to work to maintain the value that there should not be such a culture in the police. Thanks to the duty of activity and presentation, good trust-chosen and courageous women's voices in the police themselves, we see that there is a gap between what we say and what we want, and what is the result. We need action. I hope that the Council of State in its contribution can be concrete in terms of action, and also that, if there are more people who want posts in the Chamber today, they can suggest what might be good action in the police to stop a development that is going in the wrong direction. Because I interpret it this way – and I think – that everyone wants the numbers to be different. That is why I am pleased that we have this debate in the Grand Chamber on what is important for both democracy, the justice sector, the police and gender equality in general. One might think of actions such as: that some persons are given a special responsibility to follow up their gender equality work. One might imagine that one should put in action projects about equality. One might imagine that one should have earmarked means to go to equality. There are many measures that you can put in place within an agency to deal with this, so that you can change these statistics and improve equality. Teaching about gender equality and sexual harassment can also be an instrument that can become effective when faced with such challenges. I think that for all of us here in the magnificence hall, diversity is a value and a norm. I think everyone agrees that the change in culture requires more than devout desires that we all really join, and that we can join. That is why I look forward to this debate – listening to the Minister of Justice's comments and listening to good input from my co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1351	I would like to thank the interpellant for this interpellation, which concerns a very important topic. I would also like to thank you for a reflected and open post, with the invitation that Stortinget will make to make recordings and suggestions on how to strengthen this area even more. Gender equality is an important part of the human resources policy of the police and the community, and it is an objective, of course, to have an inclusive working life, where employees must reflect the diversity of the population and have a varied background of experience in terms of gender, age, disability and ethnic background. Through the governance dialogue, I follow closely this area in the area of equality in the police. The Directorate of Police reports in the annual report on planned and implemented actions to promote gender equality, ethnicity and disability. The representative draws up examples of harassment of women in the police. I would like to stress that there is zero tolerance for all forms of harassment and other improper conduct in the police. In June 2015, the Police Directorate sent a letter of sexual harassment to all police districts and special agencies entitled ‘Are you from here?’ It was underlined that responsibility lies with the perpetrator, and encouraged awareness of how your own behaviour is perceived by the environment, as well as transparency and dialogue on where the limits go for what is acceptable to the individual. It was encouraged to work more with culture to say that if you observe or yourself are exposed to or experience improper behaviour. The role of leaders as role models and cultural carriers was also addressed in this interview. That the person who reports, reports or alerts, e.g. is frozen by colleagues, is unacceptable. Common rules and guidelines for the prevention and management of alert cases in the police and officers’ seats are set out in the HMS Manual. It is now also being incorporated into the ethical guidelines for the Police and Lone Civil Service. The ethical guidelines shall contribute to a common understanding of good ethics and behaviour in the police. The police directorate will look at the reasons for alerting, assessing how cases are handled in practice, and what experience you can gain from previous cases. A dedicated working group has been set up to assess any need for changes to the procedures and handling of alert cases. Police planning and framework writing in 2016 includes a special focus on further developing a working environment where transparency and security are encouraged to tell about critical issues. I've addressed it in an unusually large number of contexts, where the whole culture has to be in many ways that, regardless of what it might be about, it's really supposed to be something positive, not responding to it as something negative. It also applies in this area, and now it is also included in the 2016 plan and framework. A support tool and training for key personnel have been developed in all police districts. I believe that it makes us visible from the political side, but also from the establishment management, that this is taking this seriously. Migration work and culture for transparency and dialogue have been the subject of meetings of the main Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It also signals that this is a high priority and contributes to the creation of common languages, attitudes and culture. I believe it is important that the justice sector in recruitment ensures a wide range of candidates by using different instruments and being aware of any barriers that may limit the candidate base. An important gateway to the police is, of course, the Police College. They train the police officers and women of the future. In recent years, the proportion of women who have been admitted to the Police College has increased slightly, and that is 40 pst. which is the measure. The gender balance of students is also essential in order to increase the proportion of women in police and police positions in the longer term. The police high school has done a thorough improvement in its admission processes just to ensure a more professional recruitment of students. The police directorate has followed up this work by choosing an equal recruitment in the police department as a separate bet area for 2015 and 2016. The aim of this work is to reduce the risk of discrimination in recruitment for all grounds of discrimination. The project of equal recruitment is carried out in cooperation with the elected trustees and is run by a State diversity network consisting of eight Directorates in addition to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. Among the activities carried out under the responsibility of the network are various workshops focusing on, for example, job analysis, call for proposals, candidate selection and job interview. In addition, a monitoring project is being planned. In this project, a selection of recruitment processes will be reviewed by an external researcher. This is also an important work to think about in the future to improve the situation. The proportion of women in the police and officers' seats totals 44 pst. by the employees. Overall, it's pretty good. The challenge is, as the interpellant also pointed out, that there is a distorted division of tasks. The number of women in police positions increased from 28 pst. in 2014 to 29 pst. in 2015. The proportion of women in legal positions is now at 54 pst. and in administrative posts 66 p.m., which are considered satisfactory. The main challenge in gender equality is to increase the proportion of women in police positions, especially in police positions, but also in legal positions. In the last category, the majority of women are initially women, and that also means that the recruitment basis for leadership positions should be good. However, we feel that there are too few female leaders in legal positions. In 2015, the number was 16 pst. Women leaders with responsibilities in police positions, 36 p.m. in legal positions and 58 pst. in administrative posts. It's also a goal that you have to have 40 pst. the proportion of women in newly recruited managers. The target was not reached in 2015, and that was a total of 29 pst. by newly recruited managers who were women. Some of the explanation may be that for a long time more men than women have been trained at the Police College, but at the same time, the recruitment basis is now better than ever. As mentioned, the proportion of women among students at the Police College has increased, which will contribute to a larger recruitment base for women leaders in the police in the long term. The target for women leaders among new recruits means that police districts need to work strategically with leadership development and conscious recruitment to achieve the target. There is also a mentoring measure. There are several police districts implementing mentoring projects, and feedback is so far very good. The Police Directorate will now develop its own mentoring programme for the department based on the good local experience. The programme is part of increasing the proportion of women among the leaders of the department. So some words about employees with immigrant backgrounds. Also in this area, the proportion is low, but there is an awareness of recruitment also in this area that is important. Both the Police College and the Police Directorate have implemented various measures to help increase the possibility of recruiting both into the Police College and other competences into the police from these environments. The same applies to disabled persons. The Police Directorate does not have its own monitoring of the number of disabled staff, but they have developed an overall IA plan, a separate action plan, based on a framework for the activities of police districts, and the police districts then have their own local action plans, or IA plans, based on the same. One of the measures is to allow all qualified applicants with disabilities to be invited for an interview if they are qualified for work. There is no requirement for the person to be among the most qualified, but he/she must nevertheless attend an interview so that he/she can assess his/her competence as a whole. It is also the case that the Police Directorate here has developed its own brochure, ‘Are you solution-oriented?’, where one tries to find out what opportunities are available to employ people with disabilities. Then it's a challenge, as it's also pointed out, related to the biased pay distribution. In some positions in the police there are women who serve the most, but overall the pay gap is in favour of men. Differences in earnings can be explained by different variables, such as long-termity and gender distribution over time. There are several men in operational positions who also provide the basis for more overtime and variable additions. There are also now several men in many positions of leadership. The work that must be done to recruit women in general will also contribute to a certain degree of wage balancing in the long term. In the case of pay differentials within the same job category, there are differences in the size of the job categories and, therefore, it is difficult to compare them completely. The work undertaken in the framework of the reform of the police to create standardised functional descriptions will provide a better basis for comparing wages and salaries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1400	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough review of its thoughts and reflections and also what has been done in the ministry on this matter. I think there's a lot of this that's good, I think there's a lot that's important. Equality work is something that takes time, and it's not like this was on top when we had government and it's gone down now. There are challenges, and there have been challenges over a long time, so there we have a cross-political work to continue in changing the situation as it is today. Some comments and reflections about some of the things the Council of State had in mind: there are signals, there are directives, there are letters sent out, there are encouragements, and the Council of State was also concerned that he had personally spoken about this culture – all that I think is very good. I think it's important that there's a government council talking about it, and that shows that this is important. But what I'm thinking about is whether it's enough that someone has the kind of tools, because what we see in the gender equality work, and as the Skeie report – which pointed out specifically to the departments – showed very clearly and also criticized, was that when the responsibility was smeared thinly, it was difficult to follow up, because there were always some others who could be thought of as having greater responsibility and greater ownership of the matter than themselves. I think the question should also be linked to why it is so important in the police. I believe that the police are in a special position to succeed in achieving equality, precisely because it has to do with our democracy, and that they are in a way the government's representative in dealing with democracy in many contexts. Then I think one should consider whether general measures, general directives and general incentives are enough. The council said there were special things that were done, he was supposed to map, and he was going to report, and I think that's good. I think there is a need for more concrete out-of-office work that is linked to very specific gender equality challenges, for example. training and competence. I think that's a very important measure to get it concretely into the system. Wages and salaries are one of the same things. And we're going to look at inequality in retrospect, because we're going to read it first from statistics. Although I have to allow myself here to say that now there is a proposal to remove the reporting obligation, I hope that there will be opportunities to strengthen just finding good ways to report it. But the question is: do we need more special measures, more specific tasks and more specific responsibilities in the streets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1411	Once again, I would like to thank you for a constructive approach to a problem that the representative says is not of a new date – it has been a challenge over time. Luckily, we see that things in general go in the right direction. I think this is due to measures that have been implemented now, but it is also due to measures that have been implemented in the past, which have been effective since then. It is also true that the representative Henriksen says: there is no doubt that this work will take time. All work on attitudes takes time, but at the same time it is necessary to keep the focus on it all the time. I think it's right that you can assess whether the instruments are good enough in that way that you get a concrete follow-up to what's the overall leadership. At the same time, however, we have now also significantly strengthened the HMS function in the police, both at central and district level. I think it also contributes to professionalising and making it easier to implement the goals we have of a broader recruitment of women into the leadership positions of the police. At the same time, I think we need to look into whether we have today's watch and tour arrangements in operational services that are good enough, for example. Is it possible here to do something that facilitates women's desire for the type of work over time, which also leads to their having the necessary work experience and competence to get operational leadership jobs? There is no doubt that watch and tour arrangements – at least I believe – can be one of the reasons why many women may eventually move into other types of police posts rather than continue in operational positions over time. It has several consequences. One is about recruiting for executive positions, but it's also about pay differentials because, through operational services, you often get the pay supplements you don't get in some other types of positions in the police. So I think it's right that we need to have a broad approach and in one way not close the door to any tools, and facilitate that we have a police force to balance the relationship between sex in a good way. I am also very happy that the interpellant is clear that there is no «quick fix» here – it is not something you can solve overnight, it is a work that has to go on over time. I follow this up in my governance dialogue with the Police Directorate and will continue to do so. We talk about this when it's important, we get the tools we have, but it's always the way that one here can be even more constructive to look at new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1426	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda. Of course, equality in the police is, the Minister of Justice has said a few times – and I understand that it is well meant to be – but it is not. Equality will never be, is not, and has never been, of course. The work on equality in general – and I am very much in agreement with the Minister of Justice, who says that we have to take this into consideration and look at it in the broad – always has our battle cause, and that is unfortunately still the case. There is a need for both a high level of commitment and systematic work in all sectors of society if we are to make equality progress. Therefore, I also thought it relevant to withdraw the equality message from the government in this interview. The previous government submitted a gender equality message called "Equal opportunities cannot be achieved by itself". Then she was withdrawn. And then, of course, the new government spent a lot of time working on its message, and she was presented here in the Stortinge a very short time ago. I think the government today has the wrong equality policy. This leads to a multi-society challenge, including police challenges. Let me take a challenge: there are still major pay differences between men and women. It's not like we're even equal in family life. One of the things Nasim Karim points out in the Equality and Social Security Committee in the Joint Police Association is that it is still a loss of career in the police when a parental leave occurs. Then it's the wrong medicine to cut the father's quota to the fathers. Then it's wrong medicine not to facilitate more that fathers can take more of the tasks, responsibility, home. It will affect working life. I think, unfortunately, that if you're very long away from a job, it may have consequences for your career path. Then we must distribute this more fraternally between men and women. The Minister of Justice mentions the issue of equality and discrimination. It's a very important tool and an important player to promote equality. The labor party has long thought that it may not have been strong enough. The gender equality and discrimination scene has had the potential to say that discrimination has occurred here – and that is what it was. In the context of the gender equality communication, the Labour Party suggested that one should provide opportunities for equal opportunities and discrimination. I think that would be a good measure. In those cases where there is discrimination in the labour market and where the subject of equality and discrimination is concerned, I believe it has had a greater impact. I would also like to commend the Joint League of Police, which is systematically working on equality. I think that's very important. There are many things we can do as politicians and authorities, but what trade unions and trust leaders do in the workplace are very important. The work on equality and disability done there is important. This also leads to a discovery of some challenges, such as: the case we discussed here a few weeks ago, where PF and Nasim Karim addressed the problem of sexual harassment in the police. It's very important that it comes out, it's important that we take it seriously, and it's important that we are clear that we have zero tolerance for it. I feel that the Minister of Justice is very clear in Stortinget today, and I am very pleased about that. Otherwise, one must also look at the broad equality policy. It's not the right medicine to remove the Equality Act. It is not proper medicine to say that we are now removing the obligation of distribution and activity. I think that just as the interpellant says, we are forced to demand that one be measured on this. I saw that there was a couple of departments that came out of this a little unlucky, to say it like this. Of course, I don't think that's why one removes it – you might just have a different view of what works. But I think it's very unfortunate, and that this should not be removed. The police directorate has a target of 40 p.m. women in the police. Leaders responsible for human resources are there today that it is less than half the target. It's too bad. It's said from the Police Directorate that one should also work on recruitment, and that's for all of us. I think it is important in that context to use the space of action that is now in the process of police reform. In the process of reorganization, there must be a large space for action to do something concrete about it. In addition, it is important to work for a better police leadership culture. It has also been a challenge in the past. Now my time went out, but the last thing I want to say is that we also address the challenges of police leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1447	I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question here today, and also the Minister for Good Answers. As both the representative Henriksen and the minister said, this is not a new issue – it is a problem that has been a long time, and then it is probably not a change in the father's quota that makes it go down – to take that feedback. But I think it's important that we have a regular discussion about how to solve these challenges. Providing good recruitment to the Police College of Women, of women with immigrant backgrounds, of people who are important to get into the police profession, is very important, and it's done a good job. Now we see that the number of women in the high school of police is increasing, and we can also see the same thing in other professions, so I think that in the future we will see a completely different composition of people both in the police and in other important professions: there are more female justudents than men, and in the medical school there are more women than men, so we will in the long run see that there will be a development. It is precisely this by having the diversity that is important in order to create a good environment, in order to prevent discrimination and not least in relation to attitudes, and then we have to have that mixture of women and men present. The Minister for the Mentor Project. I think it might be a good way to go to make sure that women want to take leadership jobs. Women are tough, but in many cases we need someone to guide us and make us safe on the job we're going to do as a leader. A mentoring system can be a good solution in this respect. At the same time, I want to address the discussion that we have seen, among other things. in the teaching profession. It is important that we talk about the police profession, that we talk about working in the police department, that there is no way to tackle the challenges of discrimination, for example. We need to talk about this all the time, so that everyone is sure that this is not accepted, and not least we need to talk up the police profession as a good profession to have. That's what I think is incredibly important, and it'll also help increase recruitment. We've seen that in the teaching profession. If you talk about the teaching profession, you don't recruit into the profession either. The same applies to most professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1458	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic and for the Council's response, but also for other good articles that have been in the Chamber. The challenges associated with equal opportunities for women and men must be addressed continuously in order to succeed. As many people have said, this is something that has been going on for a long time. The police are a man-dominated profession, and it's been every year. If culture is to change, we have to do something about it. But we also have to admit that the first step towards doing something about it and getting something done about the equality challenges in the police is actually to admit it. That's why I want to give tribute to Nasim Karim, who is the head of the equality and diversity committee in PF, to which many have shown. She just addressed that challenge in the newspaper. We politicians must take this seriously. The Council of State responded to the statement in Dagbladet where Karim spoke, saying that equality should be a matter of course, and that harassment or discrimination on the grounds of sex is totally unacceptable. It was good that he recognized the problem, but the rest of the answer I thought and several others were not that good. But now we all know the media's angles and the use of quotations or the lack of use of quotations, and we in the Christian People's Party are concerned about people getting a new chance. Today, the government has responded much better, and it is good that there are many good processes going on. It is important that we put political pressure on it, so that POD, the police districts and others can follow it up, and that we are impatient about that piece. Unfortunately, discrimination and sexual harassment against women in the police are not an outstanding example either. Rather, it may seem that it is the general rule in man-dominated professions – unfortunately. The defence has been criticised for the treatment of women on a number of occasions. It is unsustainable, and it clearly shows that one has to do even more to ensure that all employees are well cared for. We need to do more to improve attitudes towards women, prevent sexual harassment and ensure equal opportunities for women and men. The chief task of the police is to ensure peace and security for the entire population. To put the police in the best position to carry out their important social mission and to do a good job, a good working environment is crucial for all in the police. Possibilities for promotion and new police duties shall be determined by qualifications and not by being a man. In theory, women have the opportunity to reach as far as men, but when it is not evident from practice, it is essential that concrete action is taken. That is why I am pleased with the signals given by the Council of State that he refers to the processes that are going on and that, in recent times, it has also improved in several areas. But I also think it is important that we have to have more knowledge of what the cause is, and then research is important. In this way, more effective action can be taken, with the aim of preventing discrimination and sexual harassment. Targeted attitudes are crucial to changing structures everywhere, not least in the police. If we're going to be able to do something about the challenges we see in the police, it's absolutely vital that someone recognizes the problem. Without it, you can't solve anything. That's why I agree with Ebbesen, who was clear that we have to dry out talking about the challenges, and we are also going to present the opportunities that lie there. I expect the Council of State to continue the good work to which he refers, and that concrete action will be taken to prevent sexual harassment and ensure equal opportunities for women and men in police practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1473	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for a good and highly relevant interpellation on a theme where the police seemed to have a long way to go. I must say, I've been a little surprised by some police processes. It may seem that there is an unfortunate culture in some places, and the signals that have come from different levels of leadership when it comes to individual matters have not been reassuring. Police depend on public trust. The way the police director recently handled the addition of a leader to the directorate has not helped build up the trust the police depend on. We must be quite clear that women should have equal opportunities as men in the police case, and that discrimination and harassment against women at all should not take place. The Dork report and the follow-up of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs pointed to three important points: leadership, culture and attitudes. With this, it should of course be clear that both sexes are to be treated the same way in the police case, and that it must be there as a posted commitment that police service women are as much a world as police officers. The police are getting better at both sexes being represented. And in order to put in place the best possible leaders at different levels in the police, it is also important to be able to recruit the best tenants from both sexes. As the interpellant points out, numbers are clear. There are too few female police officers, but there are also too few female leaders on levels below. We've heard about women who are advised to seek leadership positions, and we've heard stories about women who feel frozen in a man-dominated leadership environment. I think the Council of State should take the initiative on its own top-level programmes for women. One should set clear goals for work to improve, and not least one should make it clear that male leaders trying to push out women are not wanted by the police. I want to say it outright: I don't feel sure that the Directorate of Police uses the same principles and objectives that I have mentioned earlier in my article. If we look at recent additions that are fully mentioned in the media, there is at least good reason to ask questions about this. The Minister of Justice said in his main speech that in the governance dialogue he followed up on this. That's good. I want to put emphasis on it. I found the post from the Minister of Justice showing that he takes it seriously. The centre party has previously taken initiatives to improve police equality by presenting several calls for proposals in the budgetary process. I expect that we will have a case for the Storting on this, so that we can discuss it concretely and not least adopt proposals for improvements where possible. I will finally say that I agree with Ebbesen's representative that we need to discuss the police profession. Then it's a paradox that one stands here and tells about everything that's difficult and heavy, but it's unlikely that it's important that we don't mismeasure the situation. A lot of women like the police and get good opportunities, so we have to raise it. At the same time, when we know that equality has not come far enough, we cannot push these problems under the carpet either, because women who want to go to the police profession need to see that both the police and we politicians take the problems that are there seriously. Because only through it can they feel that it's safe to go into it, when they see that there's a development in the right direction. I mean, this is a little bit of an interpellation, just to show that we're taking it seriously, that we want to get it better. Then the goal must be that we gather the cancers in the future, that women should know that they are just as welcome in the police as they are in the police, and that they get the same opportunities in the police in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1492	I would also like to start by giving tribute to the interpellant in order to raise an important and topical topic for debate. It's not many weeks since we had a similar debate, which was about equality in business. Then there was another state council that put on the first bench, but the theme and issues are the same within the police. Since we had the previous interpellation, about equality in business, the Council of State has appointed a new Supreme Justice Justice, and I'm very pleased that we now got our first female Supreme Justice. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State did not choose Eyes on the basis of her «maskuline characteristics», which the daily business seems to believe, but simply on the basis of the fact that the wit is evenly distributed. We have a lot of nice female lawyers in this country. Eyes are one of them and so seen very competent to lead our Supreme Court. To talk a little bit more about today's business: they had an article in May last year that is quite interesting in this perspective, where the headline was: «Women are wrong, men have potential». That article illustrates some of the challenges women face but are not so visible. In an employment process and in an interview situation, it is often the case that women who lack the relevant professional experience are considered to be wrong and therefore not competent for the job, and that it is quite final, while men who have similar lack of experience are seen as having the potential: this is something you can fix, one just has to facilitate it. So men are elected more often despite lack of professional experience than women do. It also says in that article that women are perceived as less serious than men if they laugh. It means that women are overlooked by worse men if they laugh more than four times during an interview. It doesn't matter! We are in 2016, and it is totally unacceptable that women and men are treated so differently in an interview. I'll assume that's the same thing in the police as it is in the business world -- there's no reason to think they're better or more competent to do police interviews than they are in the business world. I would also like to comment a little bit on what has been said, and as the Council of State also says, that there is a pretty good level of women's legal positions. That's positive, that's good, we should be happy for that. At the same time, we can't stop there, we can't be satisfied with just that the proportion of women lawyers in the police are now about. 50 pst. Because it's not just about legal positions, it's also about leadership positions, it's about who has power in the police, and who rules at last, and there's a challenge. It's good that there's a good recruitment basis, that there are many female lawyers, but it doesn't last. Female law students have been in the majority for a long time, female students have been in the majority of universities since I went there, and it starts -- unfortunately, I just have to say -- to be a few years ago. It's been ten years since I graduated from college, so it's been like this for a while, and we're not coming anymore. State councils have their own education as a lawyer. I don't know if he's ever worked in the law firm, but I do, and I can say that although female law students are now in the majority, it's not shown again at the law firm's partner level. It probably has a lot of reasons, but it shows that we have a job to do. We can't just lean back and say, this will take care of itself in a few years. No, we have to be on the offensive, we have to run those processes all the way, all the way talk about it, and all the way focus on that we want women up and down – not just into the police, but into the police, at all stages. So – to the Council of State – there we have a job that is a continuous job, which is an important job, because the police are even greater than the business community has to represent the entire width of the population. Then it can't be that police action is directed by more men than by women. In a non-profit world, it should be fifty-fifty, and that's what we have to work against. We have the best assumptions with the recruitment basis there, but we have a job to do, and it has to be a long-term job, and it has to be a focused job. Lifting women is a job that takes time, and it doesn't come of itself. So I wish the Council of State good luck with the further work on equality in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1507	This is a great interpellation. You sometimes think when you have such themes up, that you have to count how many ladies and men are up in the pulpit – I haven't done it. In any case, it is crucial for most of us — many of whom have been involved — to have the police fulfil their social mission, depending on the legitimacy of the entire population. As a representative of the people, I have registered that it does something to me when I see that great, competent representatives of the police fill the TV screen and respond in terms of tasks that the police are involved in, serious criminal cases and other matters. I believe that the role model and what they signal out to the population has enormous significance in terms of both legitimacy and crime, which are changing. If we are to be able to do something about violence in close relationships and child abuse, we must have a police force that supports the population. So there's a relationship between the societal mission and the face that appears outwards. Far back, I worked with the inclusion of refugees, and I remember that the first inclusion message was very clear that the three areas of society where the presence of immigrants means most, are in the media, in child protection and in the police. There was a clear strategy in the East to bring in more immigrants’ backgrounds. It made a difference. TV 2 has done a lot of the same thing. When I worked against child protection, I saw almost no one with a migrant background. The same is true of the police, where I feel that they are not following the trend; they are not enough ahead in relation to the relationship between equality and the societal mission. I feel that it has been said very much wisely and well by those who have been involved so far in this debate, but I may miss a little clearer, ambitious measurement of how to get there. I know that when we politicians pronounce us, and not least a government council, and are very clear that this is a goal, something happens out there. I know that the Council of State is going to have the word after me, so I have a little call to be maybe even more clear. I'm not the one who is the most dependent on target numbers and management out there, but how does the Council of State see it possible to produce the same forward-looking culture that at least the Baltic broadcast started with in its time to manage to get the good role models into the media, because that's a little of the thinking that's also needed in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1521	I would like to thank those who have spoken for a good debate. I want to start by saying this takes time. I've been working on equality for 30 years, and I'm getting so tired of it, because it's going so slowly – so now we have to get ahead of this work. Nasim Karim and the Police Union are excellent examples of a trade union that goes ahead. This should be embraced by the Minister of Justice, and he should – and he probably does – facilitate that work to have a really good framework for achieving practical equality in the service. There were some things that were taken up here, one of them was Rupstad talking about research. So we have the largest research investigation that any country has given – the Skeie Committee. It's just to start picking measures. We don't need that much research, and at least we shouldn't have research postponing action. We need resources and people who get time to work concretely with gender equality in the various police districts. Some people have to take special responsibility for putting it on the agenda, in social contexts that are part of the police service, and in concrete work contexts. I also think that it should be part of the normal work environment – and that is, but I say it anyway. And you might want to think about having procedures similar for example. HMS work, which is very important in the police, and can thus have gender equality and its own gender equality procedures. It's been about trust, and more people were inside this with confidence and talking up. One way to talk the police are just to say that there is a lack of equality, because there is something that engages half the population, who wants it to be a police force where power is equally distributed between women and men – at all levels of the police. Now I can't remember, even though I think I wrote it down, but there was a representative who mentioned this with a case of his own, and it actually suggested the Workers' Party in budgetary terms, but it was voted down by almost all those who have spoken in here today, except for Lene Wagslid and Jenny Klinge. But the Council of State has the opportunity to come back to revision and tell what concrete tasks have been undertaken in the districts in terms of gender equality and gender equality. That's what I think might be a good way for the Council of State to talk up work on equality, and show in the revised that it's actually done good concrete tasks in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1532	I would first like to thank you for a very good debate, and there have also been some good proposals. The representative of the Wagslid would certainly invite him to a general debate on equality. I'm not going to go into it, but it's clear that the gender perspective is important throughout the police action, throughout the public sector. In this sense, there is no doubt that thinking coherence is also important in this area. So I noticed that the interpellant finally said that equality engages half of the population. I think it involves considerably more than half of the population. I think most people are concerned that we're going to have real equality in the police too, and it's important political goals to achieve it. The representative, Ropstad, pulled out the newspaper and my response to a play from the Police Union. I think if you read what I actually said, it's very hard not to agree with that. There I embraced the play that came from Karim, and I was very happy that she focused on it. I said it was zero tolerance for discrimination and harassment, but I also allowed myself to do as Ebbesen did today from the pulpit, not just say that everything is wrong. Actually, there are also things that are going well. The measures are effective. We see the results of the work that has been done. Then I think it's also important to focus on it. It is also about motivation for further action. If an organisation works and works with some issues and gets results, but does not get recognition for those results, it does something about the motivation. That's why I think we also have a responsibility to point out the things that actually work better. Although it's still a bit to go in many areas, I think it's important. I mentioned, for example: The police officers. 40 pst. of the newly recruited police officers are women. I think it goes right into the post from Grung – creating role models, getting female leaders in the police, who are also ‘reputable’, who are out commenting on matters, and taking on that leadership responsibility. We now have that through, among other things. These police officers. In addition – as I mentioned in my article – it is relevant to mentoring programmes, which allow women to be more stimulated to take that kind of leadership position externally. So I fully agree with Grung that having role models is extremely important for recruiting for such leadership positions. I think this has been a good debate. There's been a good recording. I am very pleased that we are all concerned that this should be resolved in the best possible way, but I am also concerned about stressing that here a lot of positive has happened. It will also be more positive in the future, which will deliver good results, both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1549	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1563	After 30 years of incorporated use of the term urban council as the name of the executive body of the Oslo City Council and the daily management of the municipality, the new red-green majority in the municipality has come to the conclusion that it is a pressing task of rank and a good idea to name itself as ‘city management’. The mayor of Oslo has long before the formal decision of the City Council on this matter referred to himself as ‘the head of government’ in Oslo, and other parts of the municipality depend on what I understand next. Urban committees, which are fully authorised and commissioned by the City Council, shall also be upgraded. Their leaders shall be appointed rapporteurs, so that Oslo will now have 16 rapporteurs, against the excellent rapporteur so far. The theme of this interpellation, however, is not the rather comical verbal decorative disease of the Workers' Party, SV, the Green Party, which participates in the City Council, and their supporting party Red, and the fact that they push through a large minority of the City Council. The issue is also not that we see a weak political craft, with a lack of understanding that such issues need to be borne by a broad majority of the city council, and that we should avoid pushing through such changes only with the overweight of a few votes. What is my concern, on the other hand, is whether the Stortinget as legislator and, in the same way, the department in question can rest assured that random local ideas can freely change well-known used terms, which are also based on Stortingen's legislation relating to the municipal sector. This question is further highlighted when choosing terms that have so far been reserved for national constitutional bodies — in this case the term government. To date, the coordination responsibility of the size has not been challenged with regard to ensuring the national, coherent and comprehensible names of equal bodies, irrespective of their location in the country in which they are located. The question is whether one should take care to ensure that 420 municipalities are free to rebuff or rebranding, as one might call it, a little depending on the orientation of society, and to replace municipal governments and city councillors with ‘exchange’, ‘vesselling’, ‘municipal assembly’, ‘citizen representation’, or perhaps even reintroduce the mayor’s title where appropriate. Mayor Johansen said in the city council debate on 2 March: "Many in our city don't know the difference between city councils and city councils. If most people don't know who decides what, it's a democratic problem. The target group for this change of name is not the political quarter and Dagsnyt 18.’» It's an interesting attitude Mayor Johansen has to his voters, that after 30 years they should be so ignorant – at least if they don't listen to Dagsnytt 18 or Political Quarter – that they shouldn't have any idea what the City Council is for some sort of device in the city. According to the mayor, Oslo people are so ignorant of the city council system that they have gone and become a democratic problem. But now let's see what the mayor's contribution is to the public information he's so dedicated to promoting. The decision amending Section 1 of the Urban Council Regulation states that ‘the administrative body consists of up to 8 bureaux and has an urban director and a deputy director’. So the pedagogical simplification is to introduce two names to the councils of the so-called urban government in Oslo. The proposal is thus presented as a tool in the art of public information simplification, but is really just a contribution to further confusion. In the City Council's case to the City Council, it is argued that: ‘Oslo Municipality has built up its parliamentary governance system according to the model of the State. Changing the name from «bureau» to «bureau» will make it easier and clearer beyond what is the role and responsibilities of the urban government in the management system.» Whatever one might think is a good or correct and striking term for use in the public domain, I believe that in this case it may be even worse to invoke a comparison and parallelity to the functioning and functional distribution of state bodies at state level that are not left in any parliamentaryly governed municipality. The introduction of the term ‘government’ is directly misleading on a number of points and will not give the public a proper understanding of what the City Council has by means of powers or who decides what time it takes. At national level, the model of parliamentaryism is based on the principle of power-sharing, where power is shared between the legislative authority, the Stortinget, the executive authority, the government, and the judicial authority, the courts. In the municipalities, all local power has been added to the local government, which is directly elected, and otherwise it can be said that the autonomy of the local government is also derived from the tasks that the state considers it would delegate. The local authority shall delegate powers to the City Council or other bodies and may be free to withdraw delegated powers. In addition, many special legislative bodies do not control the municipality at all. A good reminder is that the City Council took over the previous councillor powers. Counsellors were employees, preferably party-political neutral officials, who were to promote matters for city government and chairmanship on professional premises. It is true that the City Council has been delegated a few more powers than it was natural for a elected body to give to an unpolitical office. But the reason for this is that the control of the City Council through threats and mistrust was a stronger tool than against ordinary employees. However, the external similarity of state parliamentarianism — to be dismissed immediately by mistrust — does not make the City Council a superior body vis-à-vis the City Council. All other moves indicate that it is a subsidiary body of the City Council. Therefore, when we can also see that the City Council has no such independent authority for exclusive competence in specific areas, such as that of the Government under the Basic Law § 3, these are terms such as ‘urban governance’ and ‘urban government’ in itself unfortunate and suitable for creating ambiguity about responsibilities and, on the contrary, helping to weaken the awareness that it is the direct elected bodies that respond to the voters, who are the very hub of local democracy. After the interpellation was reported, there have been two things that are of interest to the case: the City Council decision has triggered a requirement for a law enforcement from a minority according to the municipal law § 59. I do not go into that side of the case, because it will find a preliminary solution. The other interesting thing that has happened is that there has been a NOU, no. 4 for 2016, on new municipal law. That means, as far as I can judge, that within a very short time horizon, the Storting itself will be able to decide whether to build up a misleading title usage. It can also be mentioned to this assembly that neither in the promising draft law of the investigators behind NOU 2016:4 is it open that the governing bodies of parliamentaryally governed municipalities can be described as ‘regovernment’ and that one must adhere to the use of words already incorporated, either by direct authority or by fixed use. It will also be a personal view from this pulpit that the City Council, not least for the sake of taxpayers and their own reputation, what they now have to put at the highest level, should wait until the new municipal law has been completed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1599	I have registered that the City Council in Oslo has decided to call the City Council in Oslo for urban government. My starting point has always been that such a change of name is unfortunate. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, it is unfortunate because, in my opinion, the rules of the municipal law do not open up to calling the city council urban government. The rules provide for the use of the names «municipal council» and «bureau». I would therefore like to stress that these are the two names that the central government will use when communicating with this local body, or when it is mentioned. The Municipal Law Committee has just issued its investigation with a proposal for a new municipal law, NOU 2016:4. It shall be consulted prior to its subsequent follow-up by the Ministry. However, I have noticed that a significant majority of the sample believes that a legal requirement to use specific denominations for elected bodies should apply, among others. for local councils or city councils. In other words, this is not voluntary. The Municipal Law Committee wants there to be a legal requirement to use the term «municipal council» or «bureau». The majority will clarify a requirement to use the names set out in the law. Secondly, the change of names is unfortunate because it can create confusion when a local body uses a special name – ‘government’ – which is so closely bound up with another body, namely the government. In this respect, I would like to refer again to the arguments of the majority of the Municipal Law Committee. They point out that it is important that the elected bodies are recognizable from municipality to municipality. A development that identifies the same body in several different ways from municipality to municipality is inappropriate and informative. I have clearly expressed my view of this matter through the media. I believe that the City Council in Oslo should deal with the municipal law. Both the City Council and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation have other and more important tasks than the use of resources in this matter. I am also aware that representatives of the Oslo City Council have called for the legality of the decision of the City Council. If the City Council does not reverse its own decision, a statutory audit will be carried out by the County of Oslo and Akershus, which will have to make an independent assessment of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1614	I thank the Council of State for the answer, both because he responded so fully, and of course also because the content pleased me personally very much. That means that we have many of the same reasoning, that there is no contribution to a uniform term across the country, especially when the reason is that you have to clear up and make it easier for people to understand. You can only imagine the diversity you'd get if it were to change from municipality to municipality how political management wants to describe itself. We are usually strong supporters of local self-government, but a prerequisite for this is that we have an established framework on how municipalities proceed, both when they are going to introduce parliamentaryism, in the municipalities they want it, and how, if necessary, we can further develop the principle of leadership and governance after that, in the municipalities that want it. So personally, I want greater powers for the local authorities, but we have to make sure – from this room and from the department – to follow up on what also helps the audience to understand, because there is more movement and contact across the municipal borders. And then, of course, it's a huge gain, educational and other way, that you know which organs you're referring to, no matter where you move. So, as I was also in my first post, there has been a happy event, namely that the Fläte selection came with its setting, which will solve this in the future. It will then provide a legal clarification in an area that should not have been necessary if you had used your head locally – it is not prohibited either. Then the last question remains, and that is: how much political prestige will the red-green majority in Oslo City Council now invest in a case that is lost – which is either lost immediately through the assessment of legality, or which will be lost because, above all, Stortinget does not think this is a good idea based on the principle that Norway is a whole state? We don't have regional levels that it's reasonable to denote by government-like denominations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1627	Just let me briefly say that I share the interpellant's view that a system where the local bodies can call themselves what they want will create more confusion for the inhabitants. I have heard that the mayor has stated that the use of ‘burden management’ would be expeditious. I share the view of the interpellant that it can become more confusing than clarifying, because then you will get different language usage from city to city, from municipality to municipality. In our opinion, today's municipal law is clear on this point; it is the «municipal council» or «bureau» to be used. The Municipal Law Committee takes another step further by wanting to have a directive on what it should be called, and therefore it would be wise if the Oslo City Council reconsidered this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1639	This has been a topic at least since 1991, when an Ap-SV bureau took over after an urban council led by Højres Michael Tetzschner. At the time, we realized that there were many voters who were confused about what was in the terms of ‘a city council’, ‘a city council’, ‘city council’ and who had different roles, and also the relationship between the city council and the rapporteur and what tasks they had. I have to say that if you look at polls today about who knows who is who, and what roles the different roles have in Oslo, I doubt that you can be categorical and say that this is incorporated. People know who the rapporteur is and what the rapporteur is doing, at least in other municipalities, and we have also known who the rapporteur in Oslo is to a greater extent, but that the terms ‘urban council’, ‘urban council’, ‘bureau leader’, etc. has not been well integrated into the population, I don't think you need to have any distrust of the population in order to detect. Since the time we introduced the urban council system and the parliamentary system in Oslo, it has been ideal to have as much parallel a division of roles as possible to what is in the parliamentary system of the Stortinget-Registration. Then there is the difference, as the representative Tetzschner pointed out, that the government has a legal role in another way, but the fundamental fact that the government is exercising what the Stortinge decides, and that the City Council is exercising what the City Council decides, is the common accord and the most important role for both government and city council. Therefore, using the concept of ‘burden management’ if the executive body, which exercises the powers of the City Council, provides voters with a parallel way of thinking about how the government exercises the power of Size. So I think you should be a little bit tolerant of the argument here, and see that there are arguments for both. It is clear that there are arguments for retaining something that has been a concept for 30 years, but there are also arguments that this has been somewhat stuck and that the concept of ‘a city council’, ‘a city council’, etc. is hard for people to connect. Connecting it to the concept of "refining", i.e. those who practice, and calling it urban government, can prove to be more understandable, and it will be easier to see how the division of labour is. As to whether the name change is reasonable in terms of language, understanding or not, I can refer to the Director of the Language Council, Åse Wetås, who reported: ‘Certainly speaking, ‘burden-making’ is a good idea because it becomes clearer to people what authority that body has.’ Also language researcher Sylfest Lomheim, who has been the Director of the Language Council, spoke to the NRK: 'I think it's a good choice and a good idea, because they think of people most, and most people understand this much better than councillors. Because they know that a government is the executive governing body based on an elected majority. Then there are agencies in the government and state councils in the government. It's actually quite logical, and simply much easier to understand than the previous name usage, so well thought out." It is, of course, important, as I said, to weigh this against what has been incorporated practice, but the incorporated language has not worked very well through the population, and it is clear that the division of labour between rapporteur and urban government will also become clearer when using that concept. With regard to the legal and legal aspects of what is allowed today, the City Council attorney made an assessment of it before treatment in the City Council and then made his recommendation that it was within the law that the City Council could take the decision that was taken. Then we'll get back to the matter in the way that the Council of State now warns. But I don't think one should be afraid that there is any danger that the population will mix up the national government and the urban government in Oslo, because the word 'city' will be so pointed out, because people will know so well the difference in those roles, and because the government has such a strong role in people's consciousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1664	First, I have to agree with Councillor Sanner, who said that he thinks that both the Stortinget and the City Council in Oslo have more important things to discuss than this, so I was actually a little surprised if I should take the floor to express that the Progress Party also shares the views of both the inter-pellant and the Council of State in the matter, and then give this more attention than the fortifications. But I found out that it might be nice to attach some words to the matter that has now arisen. I understand very well both the arguments of the Council of State and perhaps the last, about the confusion between the government and the proposed name of the city government, and that it is not good for the government to be identified with a red-green plural in Oslo City Council, which finds it possible to have both the car-free centre, the meat-free days and other things that I very well understand that the sitting government doesn't want misunderstandings to occur around here, and that one takes them to the income of the policy that is being built here. I also listened with interest to the representative Jan Bøhler, who was given the task of defending this from this pulpit. I have to say that I was not directly overestimated by the defensive speech he thought, and that gives me reason to remember that there is a big difference in the system under which the state is organized, and how the municipalities have organized themselves. I thought it was important to inform you about that. The Constitution has said how to separate central government from three bodies: the perpetrator, the dooming and the Storting. So there are actually three bodies that have been assigned directly from the Constitution. In the municipalities, it's not like that. The councillors – or the administrative board, which they are called in today’s municipal law – have not been given a direct task in the municipality. All power lies with the local government, so it's a completely different system than it is in this room. We, the government and the courts have received our clear mandate from the Constitution. That's the big difference, and so there's no parallelism between the government and a city council, because a city council is completely powerless, unless the local government gives them authority. It's the big difference, which means that it won't be enlightening to the people that it's logical to call it "government" at all, precisely because all power is collected in the local government or in the city government, if one calls it. That principle seems to me to be the most important thing to sanction, and it's quite wrong to call the council function a government function, because in reality it's more like the councillor or the administrator, and then at least it's going to be wrong to title it with "burdening". At that time, one should retain the incorporated representations that we have, i.e. «bureaux» or «municipal council». Therefore, I agree entirely with the Council of State that this was unwise. Here one should not erase the recommendations you received in advance. I also read the local lawyer in Oslo's writing, and calling it a recommendation is well to go a little far. One has problematically asked the question and states that since a number of municipalities still call the head of administration ‘advisor’, there is some kind of local freedom to have their own way around that people understand. But to draw it so far and say that one has received a recommendation is to go too far. Perhaps the most important thing that the City Council should be thinking about is whether it is really going to be an ongoing debate on this both in this Chamber and in the media, which in a way characterises the first year of the new City Council. Should you not have realized that there are more important tasks in a municipality than to discuss the name, and have put this matter to death? I had hoped that one would fall to that conclusion. So history will show if there's a control of whether this is legal that's going to decide this, or whether it's going to be the new municipality, which only comes in a few years, that will decide this. In any case, the city and the city council are at least not aware that this is going to be an ongoing discussion, and therefore a certain wisdom and spent time should say on other things. I hope that it's still reasonable, so that you can practice politics and not discuss this name case for more than several months.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1679	I have no doubt that there are honest intentions behind the proposal for change that comes from the Oslo City Council, and I would say that the terms that we use in politics can be a little confusing among themselves. I know several enlightened people who don't know the difference between big business and government, and that's also the difference between city council and city government. Several times when I've had visits by up-and-coming people in Stortinget, they ask where the office of Erna Solberg or the Prime Minister is when I show them around the Stortinget. That's how we have an interpellation debate, and maybe we should talk about long questions or other things, but I understand the intention behind what Raymond Johansen and the City Council want to change. Nevertheless, there are good reasons why the changes are not so clever. First, that's what the interpellant is clearly on, that's the legality of it, and that at least one should check it and have the decision made before one calls himself a city government. I also think – as many people have pointed out – that the challenge of different names should be mentioned. If Oslo City Council had been allowed to call itself ‘burden management’, one would still have ‘bureaux’ in e.g. The mountains, and elsewhere, there could be other names. That's why I think it's unwise. This case has given a lot of attention, and this is how Raymond Johansen has already succeeded. I think there are more people who have now discussed the difference between “bureau” and “bureau” or “bureau” and “bureau” than it was before. But the vast majority of people I talk to about the matter think it's rather funny. In this way, I will allow myself a few more comments. Actually, I am a little surprised that the Right and Advance Party do not support the proposal, because this government has significantly increased the number of bureaucrats. The last time I checked, there were 1,500 new bureaucrats since the government change. In this way, this proposal for a urban government could have been a good move in the same direction, because it would probably lead to massive recruitment of more people in the precincts to direct people to the government of Oslo when they came to the urban government. The Right Party and the Advance Party should be able to lower their shoulders a little and relax, for this may indicate that Raymond Johansen has given up the national ambitions to lead a government, for now he has been allowed to lead his own government in Oslo. I'm going to be careful with criticism from the mayor, because there might be a change in the law, and then it might be on the edge of Your Majesty's insult. This is a small challenge and a small problem, and that's why I'd rather end my post, withdraw to my roommates and work with bigger societal challenges than this. I have started to call my office "comfort," because it – inspired by Oslo City Council – harmonises better with what I actually do in my office. So it's a pedagogical tool that can explain to others the role of my office. But when I think about it, it's probably not the easiest word to understand, so maybe I'll keep calling it "office."
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1698	I'm a little unsure whether it's right in this case to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, but I'll thank the interpellant for raising a timely question. It's a question that also calls for the good mood, as we've heard. For the issue of the name of the City Council and the name of the President of the City Council, a significant commitment has been generated. Of course, one must adhere to the incorporated and regulated concepts used. Of course, a desire to use titles such as ‘burden management’ and ‘burden manager’ is the main cause of demarcation. After hearing the statements of the Council of State today, I don't think it's going to be very enlightening to have such a concept. Then we get a situation where the government of the country will refer to the city government as ‘bureaucratic’, while the city council will call the city council ‘bureaucratic’. I can see that in certain challenges. However, it is interesting to see that the Labour Party and the Right are able to have a big debate on what the City Council and its leader should be called. The centre party believes this is a derailment. The debate should also be about the content of municipal parliamentarianism. Is it a form of governance that is compatible with the objectives we have for local democracy in Norway? Does it help to give the city board the power that a directly elected political body should have? Is it unproblematic that the rapporteur's only formal task is to convene meetings and chair meetings of the City Council? It is not easy to be a popular-chosen leisure politician in contact with professional bureaux, regardless of what they, the City Council and the City Council leaders had to talk about. It is equally relevant to ask questions about the guiding principle of parliamentaryism, namely that the City Council should have confidence in the City Council, be followed in the parliamentaryly governed municipalities. Is parliamentaryism real? I have been elected to Bergen and met sporadically in Bergen City, from 2003 to 2006. In this city, pompousness was not unknown, although the titles were as prescribed by law. I think it has something to do with the very form of governance. The majority has had issues of openness related to parliamentaryally governed municipalities, and the secret team won. So I think maybe it's worth saying that discussion about titles is more of a symptom of a problem than the real problem. The centre party will stick to the concept of municipal law and believes it is best for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1711	I would like to thank my fellow representatives for both interest and participation in a debate, although someone has taken verbal and mental reservations about whether this is a very important topic. To that one might say that there has never been any obstacle before to discussing things from Storting's pulpit. [[Laughter]] Nevertheless, I would like to address a little bit of the challenge that Pollestad presented in her article. It's not just about decorating yourself with feathers. There is also a tendency to be aware of – and that we must discuss in the future, when we are gradually given the new municipal law for treatment – and that is what I will say in the end is the shift of power in the individual city government or local government, where ordinary people make a fantastic effort on a voluntary basis in their spare time, and come from work. They're out in real life. Then they meet – a little thanks to this way of organizing it – not only full-time politicians, they also meet their full-time servants, who without a mandate from the people, without having presented themselves on any list, without being elected to the City Council or the City Council, express themselves with a great deal of fuss about both the one and the other. It's very often nice, young people going on in life. Nevertheless, we must look at the overall balance between the voluntary work done, the political work done by people in their leisure time, and this professionalisation. Of course, we also get some thoughts when we read what is happening in Oslo City Hall for the time being. I can refer to VG's announcement on Saturday, 12 March, that the City Council in Oslo – the so-called city government – is in trouble with the City Council on the distribution of 29 parking spaces in Oslo City Hall. Then you haven't figured out the correct function distribution, at my discretion. Then you're far from doing this with an executive, great and independent force, which almost has its own foundation. And that is what I would like to remind our good colleagues in all the municipalities and cities that have introduced parliamentaryism that they should, at regular intervals, actually look through the powers of the City Council. You should start each term of office, each term of office, by going through those powers, knowing that the local council can withdraw powers that are no longer served. Otherwise, you are stolen by power, and we don't want to contribute to that – nor by naming, as we've seen in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1721	The last speaker in this interpellation debate is the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, who, quite rightly, looked a little unwilling, but he is now coming to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1724	At least this debate has been clarifying, in the sense that representatives from both the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Right and the Advance Party have stated that the City Council and the City Council should continue to deal with the names of the City Council. In this debate, it has therefore been necessary to refer the government to it as the national government, and it is no less confusing to talk about the local government and the national government. The country has one government, and we don't need any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1733	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1739	Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1747	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Law of the Court of Justice so that all District Courts shall have a janitor responsible for only one office.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1785	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President will draw attention to the fact that this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1945	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1955	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e1979	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 122 L back to the government, and ask the government to return to Stortinget with a follow-up to the Charity Committee where the proposals in Prop. [[2014-2015]] [[NUE 2014:10]] 122 L can be seen in the context.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2102	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2113	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2122	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the capacity for day-to-day treatment in psychiatry so that patients do not lose access to mental health protection treatment as a result of new law on specific criminal law reactions.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2161	The left has notified subsidiary support to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2798	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2807	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2826	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-14.ana.ud90e2885	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
