ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e88	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Jørund Rytman, Gunnar Gundersen, Ove Bernt Trellevik and Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Arild Grande shall apply for parental leave from 19 December to 31 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e125	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e130	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Sveinung Rotevatn, Ola Elvestuen, Ruth Grung, Torgeir Mikalsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on changes to the spray room system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e135	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e155	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e168	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control. It has been an unusual fall, where it was long unclear whether it would be a budget, and how the budget would be. Now we are at least there that there will be a budget, even if it is not exactly the budget that the Labour Party wanted. The funds to the police are either ear-marked or streamlined. The so-called red tape and efficiency reform cut 194 million. To the police. We've asked the government how they're sure this is going to improve quality, but the answer is quite discouraging. They are not following the reforms. They don't check how it turns out. They cannot therefore respond to the impact of the so-called red tape and efficiency reform. I hope this is not a foretaste of the police reform – one of the really big changes in this government period. I can assure the government that we in the Workers' Party will follow along. I have noticed the post for Silje Dølplad Johansson, who is elected to the South-East police district. On Monday she wrote: ‘The policy reform leads to fewer operational teams, even if politicians say otherwise.’ Then I have also noticed that the Police Forum magazine documents the deviation in the Ministry of Justice and Defence's demands for the service cities, and the police directorate's interpretation of the same. It is difficult to avoid seeing the government add up to a tight budget for the police, when most of the money either goes to price adjustment or to retirement, and what remains is earmarked. The government has actually earmarked the entire growth of its budget – zero in the room for action. Nothing can make police districts independent of priorities. The anundsen stands out in the competition with Dørum, Storberget and Faremo, all of whom were 50 p.m. or just below in the ear marking. What this means, in practice, is that police districts can leave vacant posts empty to make the budget go up, that complicated things, like Lime-saka, can be set aside, and that one does not go into them because there is no economic space to prioritize it. It also means that important investments can be delayed because a person does not have the money to make them. The working party has added 150 million. more than the government of the free means of operation of the police, so that the police have a stronger economy in what is a demanding and important time for the police. So the government has announced something a little clever. They want to hire external consultants to find out where the money is until the police have gone. It only points to one thing: that the Minister of Justice does not have control of his own budget, that he does not want to take his responsibilities. And that's a pattern. We saw it in fact about the asylum-seekers in 2014. We saw it when the government lost control over the borders at Storskog in 2015. I fear that we will see it again in the implementation of the police reform. The clear demands and expectations of the Labour Party have been that the reform should be well anchored locally. We are concerned that spokespersons such as Sigrun Wiggen Prestbakmo in Salangen send us a letter telling us that reforma ‘likes more and more to ‘polishing’ police where the offer becomes random, and some services become so inconclusive that they can easily be dropped in the next round’. I want assurance from the Minister of Justice that he takes responsibility for the implementation of the reform, because right now he seems to be lacking control. In his statistics from September this year, the Police Directorate can tell us that there are 8,423 paid police annuals in the twelve police districts. That means 65 less than a year ago. It's not in line with our ambitions. We want more policemen. We want a stronger police force, and therefore we are not prepared to give green light to take down the recording of police students, as it has been announced. One must review the tasks that the police now have, and not least the expectations that politicians have of them, and we have assigned them to the police reform before deciding whether it is right to bring the recording down already. This is followed by this government in the justice field. The big tasks have been the forests in time. Important investments have not been made. The moderate improvements we have seen have little practical significance for the police and too many others in the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e202	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e207	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e212	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposals that the Workers' Party has on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e217	The voters can now see many and good results of the government change in 2013. The Government of Solberg is presenting a good budget for justice together with its cooperation parties. After eight years of stagnating and falling police coverage, it is increasing under this government. We're on the right track to reach the target of two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. The clearance rate is increasing. From a situation with extensive queue in 2013, the queue has now been phased out for all practical purposes. A record high number of organised child questionings are carried out. The number of exceedances in police arrests has been dramatically reduced. The digitisation of the courts has started. These are some glimpses of the good results we see of the government and the systematic and long-term efforts of the cooperation parties in the field of justice. The government has in its first period made the country safer. Work on improving the security and preparedness of the country must continue. We see that the threat of militant Islamists is serious and is becoming increasingly complex. Organized crime is increasing, and the threat picture is constantly evolving. It's the police's job to meet this. At the same time, closer and better cooperation between different departments is important across traditional organisational divisions. The government is doing well to facilitate such a broad approach. Cooperation between the police and the municipalities is crucial in preventing violent extremism. The establishment of two additional centres for labour crime strengthens cooperation between the police, the Skatetaten, the Labour Inspectorate and the Nav. It strengthens the fight against the undermining crime of working life. Earlier this year, a national cross-border analysis and intelligence centre was established, which strengthens the fight against economic crime. The development of a joint counter-terrorist centre strengthens and streamlines the interaction between the PST and the E service in the fight against terrorism. This also underlines the usefulness and importance of increased interaction across traditionally strictly separated services. The Police Act has been amended to open up wider and more effective assistance from the Defence for the Police. These are examples showing that the government is establishing step-by-step security structures on a broader platform in society. The police are now in full swing with the largest reform of the department ever. Close police reform is necessary to meet today’s and future crime challenges. It is a demanding process, where the expectations of a close police force, with greater capacity and competence, are high. As a result, the police districts’ budget is increased by an additional 300 million. kr to deal with a challenging operational situation in police districts, while at the same time implementing the reform. The government has increased the police's appropriations by 5 billion. kr through four government budgets. New job homes and strengthening the police districts contribute to more visible police. There are 1 500 new posts in the police force. In practice, the reconciliation queue has been terminated. The heavy legacy of the red-greens is gone, but the maintenance allowance of 3 to 4 billion. In criminal care, which they left behind, is a burden that it might take longer to deal with. In the short term, the lease on 242 prison sites has made it possible to increase capacity and number of settlement sites while at the same time developing new capacity within existing prisons. I note with some surprise that the Workers' Party in its comments criticises the government for detail management – the party that more than anyone else has run detailed management. I remind you that the Gjørv Commission writes: ‘The Commission questions whether the JD’s policy management has been too involved in the details of the business and too little in the long lines.’ For the vote: the right, the Party of Advances and the left will vote against the VII vote on the national civil clearance authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e243	This year's budgetary negotiations have been demanding, at least not because of justice policy, because in the field of justice, the four cooperation parties have really moved in the same direction and together have made a good budget for justice even better. Special efforts to combat violence against children will be considerably strengthened from 2017. The ‘Dark Room’ case, where several dozen Norwegian men have established a pedophilia on the Internet, is a shocking example of the importance of this work. Our children should be able to feel safe on the Internet as well. So it's very happy that 30 million is now being allocated in the agreement. to set up a special section of Kripos to combat child abuse on the Internet. This work is very important. The budgetary authority also means that the State Children's House will be strengthened by 30 million. NOK, and it is set at a total of 50 million. to several investigators and prosecutors to combat violence against children. Combined with the government’s proposal to establish a victim’s office in each police district, these efforts together will help ensure that legal certainty for vulnerable children is given a significant boost, quite simply a historic boost. Together, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are involved in forming a new judicial policy where the victim is placed in the centre. The cooperation between these four parties contributes to the promise of law, order and the fight against child abuse. The government and the cooperation parties have set up 350 new police posts annually for four years. Combined with 69 new posts in the Public Prosecutor's Office, we have provided a massive police effort during this government period. Police districts are also strengthened in the 2017 budget: 300 million. the police districts are earmarked to ensure a high level of material and personnel acquisition. In addition, 160 million is granted. kr to implement the police reform – a very important reform. We see that the police districts have faced challenges, including: the provision of funds to central ICT systems. Now we're making sure the police districts get more money, as we've done every year in this period. The Minister of Justice could also inform early that the police will now have two to three new police helicopters. During this period, government and cooperation parties have provided a dramatic improvement in preparedness. Together with a reinforced bombing group, emergency squads, more police in the emergency services and armored police cars in each district, we are now much better equipped to face a potential terrorist attack. Under the red-green government there were more than 1,200 people. The government and the cooperation parties have made sure that it is now only approx. 200 people in pay queue, and the number is falling. This means that fewer victims meet the criminal in the street and a much better rehabilitation of the individual prisoner. Where the red-green government escaped earlier, we build new prisons and ensure that we have more prisons in Norway. At the same time, it was essential to put in place the reconciliation agreement with the Netherlands to ensure that a reduction in the pay queue could be achieved as quickly as possible. We have always been very clear that the Netherlands Agreement is a temporary measure until we have built up enough disposal sites in Norway. We've already got approx. There are 130 new prison sites in Norway and 300 new sites have been built in Agder. Furthermore, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party in particular, government parties have been given the advantage that a sufficient number of prison sites will be in place by 2020. This is absolutely necessary in order to remove the reconciliation queue and provide adequate disposal sites. I note that, among other things: The centre party will terminate the agreement with the Netherlands on 1 January, i.e. in a few days. This will mean that the rescue cows will explode again, from New Year, and that victims will again risk meeting the attacker in the street. This shows what irresponsible solutions the opposition has in terms of prison queues. Finally, I want to talk about our animals. For the Progress Party, it has been very important to put in place an animal police force. We want a society to stand on the victim's side, regardless of whether the victim has four or two legs. I am therefore very proud that we are starting to put in place a nationwide animal police force, which many people have been calling for for for a long time. I am therefore pleased that this is now a reality due to good cooperation between the four parties in position. We are now providing a good police budget. I believe that we also provide a good budget for the courts and for other sections of the budget, and we ensure that we take the fight against crime seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e266	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and, in particular, my colleagues on the non-socialist side, who have written most of the majority comments together. It has been a hectic work, but I want to say that the result has been very good. Once again it is a good budget for the justice sector. Our most important job as politicians is to protect the citizens. Now we're once again giving a lot of money to hire more policemen. When we look back, we've been giving money to over 1,400 new police posts since 2013. It's an important promise to protect our citizens. I'll quote the head of the Police Union, who used the words 'Anundsen hits the flash' when the budget came. It's not often an audience from that edge. At least there must be something about the budget that is good. In addition, when one looks at what we got through the budget agreement, new funds have come to the police and not least to work to combat violence against children. As many people have been involved, we succeed in removing the reconciliation queue. There is a full ‘trafficking’ in the development of new prisons. As the representative of Leirstein mentioned, there is full ‘driving’ on the development in Agder. There are also plans for more, and we are particularly looking forward to the revised national budget, where we will get more detailed plans for further work. And it's a huge effort to fight violence and assault, not least targeting children. Since 2013, when you go through each of the budgetary agreements, we've had over 0.5 billion. kr in escalation every single year. There is a significant rise in the prevention, control and follow-up of victims. I have said in the past that I was disappointed that the 2017 budget contained only 176 million. kr to combat violence and abuse against children, but after the conciliation we have over 0.5 billion. kr also for 2017. It's important. That's $150 million. health centres and nurses, who may have one of the most important jobs in asking if they are being subjected to violence, and investigating whether children have been subjected to violence. Prevention is the most important thing. That's also why it's 50 million. kr for child protection and family protection important to prevent violence and abuse – or 10 million. kr to Alternative to Violence, which also does a good job. We have also seen through this period that there has been a sharp increase in the number of reports. We agree that there are probably dark numbers that are now coming out. It's important, but there's enormous pressure on the police and the children's houses. This is why the increase, which totals for 2017, is 50 million. kr to the children's homes, extremely important. At the hearing we had last week on the escalating plan to combat violence and assault, the children's houses clearly said that they had an increase of up to 50 p.m. and in some children's houses up to 80 p.m. The increase is good, but therefore it is also extremely important that the funds are there. Also 50 million. kr extra, to be earmarked for investigators, prosecutors and interrogators, will become important in order to be able to follow up the cases and, hopefully, to be taken by those who have committed the irregularities. Also 30 million. kr to Kripos will be important. The work they do to combat Internet-related abuse is extremely important. It's not just the spread of assault images, because we often know that those who send the images, or download the images, also commit assaults themselves. And with a more powerful effort to try to take those pedophiles, you will also be able to release many children who are now constantly subjected to violence and abuse. That's how I could still through the conciliation and what's in the budget, but this is just a start. Now we are dealing with the escalation plan that came earlier in the harvest, and there will at least be a Christian People's Party fighting for even more and even more obligatory action in the next few years. I want to highlight in particular the work we have done to combat trafficking in human beings, the slavery of our time. We set up our own teams to combat human trafficking in the police districts. Finally, the action plan also came, which has a number of good measures, but which, to a large extent, require funds, and which we must follow up in the next year. It is extremely important that we also get the job promised to help people who are being exploited the most seriously today. By means of the budgetary agreement, two new work-life crime centres will be set up. It is not directly aimed at trafficking in human beings, but we know that many of the cases can be stopped by the work done in cooperation with the police, the Nav, the Labour Inspectorate and the tax administration. Now we have a total of seven work-life crime centres, and that's important to ensure serious working life, but also to combat illegal crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e283	This is the last time this Judicial Committee is debating the Justice budget for a coming year. The budget proposal from the government and all the alternative government budgets the other parties present is something that the voters can measure us every year, and next year it's a big choice. One might be tempted to say that the alternative state budget is not worth much. They'll never be admitted. But I don't think it's just with us in the Center Party that an alternative budget is worked out with great seriousness and great zeal, because it shows in clear text and with clear numbers what we would have done if we got the chance to get multiple numbers. And that's just the chance for the voters to give us. The government and the two supporting parties seem to have found what they think is a recipe for success, i.e. centralization. In the justice sector, this is now under way in the police investigation, and courts are probably in the process. The problem is not only the reforms that are agreed upon in the Storting, but also the policies that are being pursued more in the hidden. When a cut in the outreach allowance, it could lead to the misallocation of expert assistance and legal assistance, depending on each country a cage. When courts get joint rental, when resources are lost from small units, and when the recruitment process becomes uncertain, something happens over time that only centralised politicians clapp to. So why are we going to bother with this centralization all the time, as we do in the Center Party? Well, that's because our country is the great country it is, not the most because mountains and fjords are fine, but because it carries people in the fjords and up the valleys. When we have a fight for L.A., it's because we know what a value the local police have to make sure that people out there can not only be safe for the future, but that they will continue to live there. Not only would the magistrates lay down many offices, while in the process of the Länsmannskontoren – where the Police Directorate gets the last word next year – have the important role of the Länsmannskontoren in the District of Norway, as well as central justice politicians from the Government Party and the POD leadership. The Minister of Justice has stated: ‘What is symptomatic at the lumbar spine offices is that they are largely open three days a week, except for two and a half months in the summer when it is completely summer-ridden. There is no preparedness and police service in such a building.’ And the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has said: ‘For us in the Progress Party, a lenght office is no more than an address, with installed water, electricity and sewage system.’ I'm a little sad, in fact, on behalf of all the policemen and minions who are making a great effort at these officers' offices, who themselves see themselves as trustees on behalf of the community, who have mountained young people from becoming criminals because they've seen what's going on, in time, and who now have their passport written by the justice elite in the country – if one should put such a fine word on it. We in the Central Party are deeply concerned about what is happening to the police reform. In the worst case, many of the offices that are now being rediscovered live only on borrowed time. After the large majority have used a loner’s office which has only two to three days’ opening time, as an argument for a major reform and to centralize, it now appears that some of the offices have a good working position, and must also have a limited opening time – this only to reach the minimum size of 210 service locations. Based on the argument against a part-time employee office, it's only a matter of time before anyone thinks these offices also have to be laid down. In our alternative state budget, we in the Central Party have shown a clear willingness to bet on the police throughout the country. We've seen 0.5 billion. In order to increase the free resources of the police districts and 100 million more. kr for reinforced border control. In addition, there is a large package of measures against financial crime and labour crime and more money for children’s homes. On our efforts in prisons and prisons: we have always been against hiring prisons in the Netherlands, and my government has neglected the ability they have had to build new prisons here in the country, in such a way that they should become self-inflicted. They don't complain when they want to start building new prisons in Agder, and they ignore the need on Sunnmare, where the prison capacity is the second worst in the whole country. In addition to adding funds to several prison sites, the Centre Party has also seen 150 million. to increase the number of professionals and ensure a better supply in prison. With our alternative state budget, we have pointed out our own direction. It is about proximity to good services throughout the country and a appreciation of the efforts made by both the etats and voluntary organisations. Finally, I would like to mention the suggestions from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e323	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e329	The country has got a government budget, and that's good. Now it wasn't quite the state budget I wanted, but on the justice side, I don't think it's that bad. However, there are a few things that we in the Left had in our alternative budget that we did not get through and that I want to raise here. The first thing to do is to cut the salary when travelling for lawyers. In the alternative government budget of the Left, we had reversed this cut. I think we have to take seriously when lawyers and the Bar Association address so clearly that this can be a challenge, especially for those who live in the districts, and for those who are in custody outside their own jurisdiction. Lawyers around the country fear that these will get worse legal aid. At least it's not something we in the Left want, and that's something we have to take seriously. It has otherwise been claimed that lawyers can work while travelling. They may be able to do so, but it is also not entirely unproblematic to produce criminal documents, child protection documents and enforcement decisions in the health sector when sitting on an overcrowded coastal bus or on a ferry. There may be a breach of professional secrecy. So I'm worried that lawyers are so clear, and that we couldn't reverse the cut in the deal. I'm glad that the Justice Committee addresses this and wants to focus on it, but I think it's not enough – here's a cause for concern. It's a long trip. It's far from Rogaland to Vik. It is a long way to go when you're in another jurisdiction, when the prisons are located as they are in this country – a piece outside central areas. It's also part of the story that even from many of the prisons we have, it's a little limited collective offer, so it's not just for these lawyers to get on a bus, a tram or a train to get to the prisons in question. Another thing that we had in our alternative budget, for which I would also like to have had an impact, was 10 million. kr to a test project with an alternative to smooth cells. Today, the police are our last shot. The police have to deal with people that nobody else cares about. They have to deal with overly drunk people who haven't necessarily done anything wrong, and who don't necessarily need to be on a smooth cell, but who would have needed health care – or perhaps most of all would have just had to sleep out of their sleep under some supervision. I wish we had done something for these people, because I think it's about dignity. I wish we had tried an alternative to smooth cell for these people. But we've got a lot of good work to do in this budget deal. One of those things is that we now get 5.8 million. kr for the planning of the Drammen warehouse. We've all seen what it looks like there, we know it's a need, and you're also very happy that you can now start this work and get started. It's very important. Several have mentioned the measures now being taken in relation to violence against children. We're strengthening the children's houses by 35 million. NOK 50 million. kr to several prosecutors, investigators and interrogators related to violence against children. There are important bets that unfortunately are needed. Finally, I would just like to make a few comments on the proposal by the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties in Lillesand. As Mr Werp was in the Chamber, the Left will not vote in favour of that proposal either. It's not because it's a bad proposal, it's because the Left has an agreement with the government to move government jobs out of the country. It is a work that needs to be viewed as a whole, and not taken in pieces and divided. Then there must also be a professional assessment and a professional justification behind when you move out, and where you move into. That is why we are not going to support the proposal as it stands now, because we believe it must be looked at with a professional eye, and it must be seen in a complete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e348	It might be in the right place to start one of the posts here by saying that Norway is probably a basic safe society, even independent of who is in government, because the base we've laid is strong and solid. We're a society with high legal certainty. Many key types of crime have fallen significantly in recent decades. And we have a good police and a good criminal code. But we also have major, fundamental challenges for both legal security and crime in Norway. If I were to start with one, it's that children have systematically worse legal security than adults in Norway, and in important areas where children are subjected to serious crime, we're too poor to avert, prevent and detect it today. There are a lot of children who are being selected, there are a lot of people who are being attacked, and there's a system too badly developed to protect their children's legal security in Norway. While we often, in everyday life, think about children – those of us who have children, or who are with children – that we should take care of them even better than ourselves and those who are grown up, our justice system is not yet sufficiently developed. That should be the goal: the way we think about protecting children in everyday life, we're going to use to protect children equally in criminal policy. For this reason, I would also like to take the opportunity to boast about these aspects of the budgetary agreement – and I have a vague suspicion that perhaps the Christian People's Party and the representative of Ropstad are enjoying a little extra praise in that context, because I think it has made important progress from what was the starting point. But there's a lot left. SV has put in its budget a great deal of effort on various types of measures dealing with the safety of children. Some of them are on the Justice budget, such as the multiple children's houses and more for them and a separate children's selection section. But when there is more money, there is the same amount in other budgets: school health services, work against bullying in school, follow-up on child protection and other important services. But it can also be completely different things, such as: one currently under consideration in another committee, namely whether Norway should implement the additional protocol to the Children’s Convention, which will make it possible to bring an individual complaint. It's a matter I hope many in the Justice Committee will get involved in later on. We also have a very strong police force, but there is a need for a further escalation. The pace to which it has been set for 2020 is important. It is the cross-political agreement to be implemented. It's a police reform. She has weaknesses, but she also has important and strong aspects. I would like to emphasise that reforms are being implemented – not in the decision. There are very many major reforms that have been implemented in recent years, where drawing a new organisational model has proved not to be very difficult. It may be a little difficult to be united and some dilemmas to take a stand on, but to put her into life and make her work – that's what the job is. I myself have experienced this, for example. with the promise of knowledge, and we have experienced it with the Nav reform in recent years. It also applies to police reform. So I would like to stress that there is a great deal of responsibility on the Minister of Justice – of course also on the levels below him – to implement the reform in a way that ensures that there is competence out there in all the new units, that there is an understanding of what kind of changes are to be made, but not least that the unexpected things that must always come together with a reform are taken up and systematically work on, that one comes back to the Storting if necessary, and that it is followed up from the top. Finally, from SV's budget, I just want to briefly mention some other things that we've focused on: Work against partnardrap and waltz – for the safety of women we emphasise, not least on the research page, where it says that much before we are there we should be. We focus on strengthening legal aid. We strengthen criminal care, which we believe is an important part of creating a safe society. In the end, I will also refer to the crime of working life as a very important area that needs to be given greater attention and more resources in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e376	Government Board I want to start this budget line in a slightly untraditional way, because after the post by the representative Solhjell, I want to say that with one exception in addition to the last estimate of extra bets from SV, I think I agree with all the representative Solhjell said. I think it's incredibly important to stress that although there's been a lot of real, important and good steps in the fight against violence and abuse against children, we're far from the goal, but we're succeeding in a completely different way than before. There are many complex reasons for this, including: it is important to underline the value of the broad initiative, which is also followed by the Government Action Plans, and which have not least been given an additional boost through the budget agreement in Stortinget. It's a very correct and important focus area, and I'm glad that the Storting spends time on the weakest of the weakest. I also want to stress that for the last three years we have been very conscious of the escalation. There has been a very strong commitment to the expansion of both police competence, the new interrogation reform, an additional children's home, a new children's home satellite. As a result, we get several of those cases into the justice track. It's been a big challenge that we know about dark numbers that we've never really dug well enough into and started taking off. Now let's do that, and I think that's important to emphasize. But it is also true that the representative, Solhjell, says – there is still a lot to be done. Then I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the budget, especially the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have contributed – that is probably the fourth time we say it – to do a good budget even better. There too, efforts are particularly reflected in the direction of children and young people. I want to stress the importance of thinking completely both in this area and in the chain perspective. As a government from day one, we have been concerned to ensure that bets in one area will not create challenges or bottlenecks in another area. We have seen a development that has made us this time proposing additional appropriations to go to the police districts – 295.7 million. kr – in order to prevent further dwindling and hopefully create a certain increased space for action. There has been a formidable investment in ICT. We know that there has been a lag over many, many years. I have said several times that there are still ICT systems that are older than the Council of State. It takes time to close those gapes, but there has been an important area of initiative for the government and the cooperation parties. It is a cross-political objective to increase police staffing to 2 per 1 000 during 2020. We're almost in a grid. We are on track in terms of appropriations and follow-up from the political team. It's demanding to get everyone into work in 2016, but now there's a plan for how it's going to be done to get up to the level that we're going to be at. To increase further the appropriations for the children's homes by 50 million. kr following the budgetary agreement will give rise to a further substantial boost, not least for the follow-up work of children’s homes after the completion of the hearings. There is no doubt that the capacity of the children's houses has been under pressure. They have now significantly improved their capacity. We also look at the number of police districts that come within the deadline for the conduct of interrogation. Ensuring an enhanced prosecution authority with an additional 50 million. kr to lower prosecution authority and, in fact, 5 mill. kr to higher prosecution authorities will help to strengthen both competence and investigation capacity, and it will help to ensure that we are even more able to deal with the entire criminal case portfolio. It is important to bear in mind that crime has fallen in recent years. There is a completely different focus from the police in very many areas, which is very good for the citizens. Only one thing like introducing response time requirements, which was impossible before the government change, actually has an impact on citizens out there. They know what they can expect from the police where they live. The courts are given the digitalisation promise of the times. It is crucial to address the challenges of the future that there are better digital solutions in the courts. The promise that we are now starting with the 2017 budget, which is going to go on over time, will give the courts a completely different capacity and opportunity both to solve the important tasks they have, in an efficient and good way, and to follow up the important role they have in the criminal justice chain, and not to develop into a bottleneck. Crime is one of the major areas of government activity. There were 1,213 people standing in a payroll queue when we took over, now last Friday there were 229. It says respect, and there's a lot that has been done to make sure we can do it. Among other things, we are now under construction or have built around 260 new prison sites in Norway. It's 50 double places, it's built a new youth institution, and we also see the effect of it, for example. in police detention, which was a serious problem in 2012 and 2013. It's still a challenge, but it's significantly smaller, maybe down to about a fifth of what was the situation before. There are also important measures that help us to get good results from both the involvement of the police and the involvement of the criminal justice community. Preparedness is still underpinned by this draft budget. Until 2016, we have strengthened the response team by 40 pst. We've secured in the 2016 budget that we're going to order new police helicopters, two or three, and I'm going back to the revision of the concept. It increases the transportation capacity of the police. There will be new rescue helicopters. We are now on track with the Emergency Centre after a rather fragile start to that work from the previous government. We've increased the number of UEH units from 680 to about 1,000 now. We've strengthened the PST by about 60 pst. Now, in the 2017 budget, they will have a new analytical tool that will streamline and improve the work and capacity of the PST to completely new dimensions, as well as a commitment to preventing digital espionage. The near-police reform is under roll-out, and I am very pleased that we have the support of the Stortinge that we have for it. I also agree that it is in the implementation of the reform that the major challenges can come, and it is absolutely essential to be close to the follow-up to the close-up reform, so that we actually get to the other end of what we have planned. Then I'm a little bit close -- I was saying -- sadly about the members of the Justice Committee's post, a little bit because I think she's taking in on how much change has actually happened and is being implemented in the justice sector. Because when you heard that post, it wasn't much that was good, at least not in the police. It doesn't agree very well with the impression I have. I also travel a lot around police Norway, and the feedback we get is actually very positive. But it's also that it feels like the financial framework is tight, and we're not going to push it under a chair. It is still demanding to make police priorities; it is not that all the challenges and problems have been resolved neither with this budget nor with the future budgets. It is still the case that tough priorities need to be implemented, and there is an actual need to take account of the priority given to the means adopted by the police here today. I also find it exciting that the representative Tajik criticises the government on the one hand for not having a full overview of the efficiency results of the ABE reform, while at the same time criticising me for having started an investigation into the use of money in the police, among other things. to see if the ABE reform has brought about the effectiveness of the ABE reform. It gets a little bit like that, no matter what you do or don't do, it gets wrong. The opposition's job is, of course, to criticise, but above all, it is the opposition's job to ensure new, alternative solutions, be creative, solution-oriented, contribute to a progressive policy. I don't think we got that contribution today. I do not think we have it in the motions in the vote either. I have probably concluded in my silent mind that the Workers' Party is quite satisfied with what is happening in the field of justice, because the proposals for changes they are actually making are of a very marginal nature. I think that's really okay, but of course the Workers' Party cannot say it out loud, and I have very much respect for it. In the end, a few words to the representative Klinge, who misplaced what I said, because I said that symptomatic for many LEN's offices is that they have a short opening time, etc. And they have. There are a lot of volunteer offices that have a very, very good service, which are large and have a lot of employees, but there are also more than 120 employee offices today that have less than 5 employees. In fact, I think that people in Norway deserve a good offer of police wherever they live, and the solution to that is, in fact, the near-police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e418	An NVE flaum alert map indicates that there is a risk of flooding on parts of the Taraldrud level area. Did the Minister of Justice know this when he chose Taraldrud as the new National Emergency Response Centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e423	The project has assessed the flood maps and found that it does not pose a problem for the establishment of an emergency centre on Taraldrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e428	In October, the State Council said that it was ‘Troubles in the basic conditions of Greenland, which appear to be somewhat more complex than one which may initially be.’ Does the government know the basics of Taraldrud better than the basics of Groenmo?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e438	What was the background was that one had gone through these two empty alternatives to look at the challenges that lay there. What turned out at Groenmo was that the challenges with, among other things, gas in the ground would be greater than what was foreseen in advance. That is the conclusion of the review. The project provides a good overview of the challenges identified by the representative. Taraldrud is the right choice of plots seen with our eyes and seen with the project's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e443	Yesterday was an exciting day for many who are engaged in the police reform and which offices and places of service are to be continued or, if necessary, laid down. Earlier in the debate the rapporteur, Mr Wiggen Prestbakmo, has been mentioned. We are many who are concerned that we should have a good, bystander police locally. As I see it, there is a difference between the police who live in a municipality – who are involved in the local environment and with very good local knowledge – and patrols that just run through. Governments are very familiar with that vision. I am most interested in knowing what he will answer to that post – if he has read the post, and I suppose so, because much has been spread – from the rapporteur in Salangen. There are many municipal politicians who fear that what the Stortinge decided, not necessarily what it ends up ordering from the Police Directorate. So I'd like to hear what the Minister of Justice will answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e448	There are a lot of different experiences of what the near-police reform is out there. I have had several meetings with rapporteurs, but also with the KS, who report that they are very pleased with the process they have been part of. They're very pleased with the obligations they get from the police. Then we'll see what the final result will be, when the Police Directorate has gone through the proposals of the police officers. I think it's important to stress that the local police are more than just having an office. This is what is the whole foundation of the reform of the neighbourhood police – the need to have a police contact that can oblige both prevention, follow-up and implementation of measures, to ensure cooperation even better through police councils, to help people to stay around the country in order to bring together professional communities in the police districts, and to have a new intelligence doctrine, which is much better and binding in the area of prevention. All these are conditions that will help to strengthen the neighbourhood police — not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e455	I would also like to ask about the police reform and what is happening now. The criticism from our Central Party spokesman in Salangen thinks I'm cracking well, because it gets the frustration that's many places now, both over the process and what's happening. Then the Council of State refers to the quote I had about a part-time office, and to these small offices with less than five added as a problem. I have an example from my own county, from Tingvoll, where they have three police officers and half a civilian position today. That office was one of the offices that the police officer yesterday proposed to maintain. One has said that it should not be maintained, but it should be kept low to achieve a number of 210, as the Storting has seen. My question to the Council of State is: Does he think that such a type of office should be in danger of being closed down in a new round soon, because it does not meet the requirement that he himself has seen to be robust enough, or will he make sure to strengthen such offices, so that they become viable for the future, according to his own template?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e461	The reason I use it with five employees is that 18 police officers are needed to have one day-old patrol. It says little about what works, and what doesn't work. It will in any case be a diversity of service units and places in Norway because we are what we are. We live everywhere. We feed all over the country, and that is necessary to ensure the requirements of the Storting, but also to ensure that travel time is not too long for the population, we will still have that diversity. But we can't blame ourselves for that being the general rule. We need to make better use of our resources precisely because we need to free up capacity, so that we can work better and prevent and solve violence and abuse against children, so that we can gather that expertise and knowledge, so that we do not allow very many people to have back-up services that allow you to move out only when there is a risk to life or health. We have to think a little bit differently about the near-police reform instead of putting on all the brakes and thinking that everything is good like that, because it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e466	The Council of State says in its statement that the situation in terms of overruns is down to one-fifth of what it was before. Let me stress that it's very, very good. But for those who are still exposed to oversitting and human rights violations, there is a meager consolation that there is fewer. This is an area where we still have to work, in order to get into zero passes. The size has discussed several times in the past what we can do to make the cells less smooth, that is, those who sit in there can control their lights themselves, that they can have something to do, whether it's computer games or books – that it should appear as less stressful to sit in a smooth cell than what too many people do today. So my question to the Council of State is: what does the Council of State do to make it go down into zero passes, and what has the Council of State done – or is thinking of doing – to make the cells less smooth?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e475	Let me first make it clear that when I said one fifth, I said maybe down to about one fifth, because I don't have the very last numbers. But there's been a dramatic reduction in excess, and that's good, because then there's a lot more people who don't have to experience it. For example, some of the measures taken are: that we have opened several new police houses, with new police arrests. There's that consideration. I've been visiting new police arrests with daylight, with the possibility to control the light, with a clock that's there so you don't get a day's sleep. So when a planer for new police arrests, this is consideration that's being taken into consideration. In addition, new guidelines to be followed by the police have been put in place by the National Attorney General and some police districts have implemented some changes in the police detention system that will also help to reduce the burden of being under police arrest — including within time limits. The police also have very clear links with the fact that there should be no spillovers. Having capacity in criminal care is one of the most important measures to ensure it, and we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e484	The government has sent a case to the Stortinget where it is a warning that they do not want us to implement the individual complaint system contained in an additional protocol to the Children's Convention, as many other countries around us have done. Such a scheme would give children in Norway the right to complain about e.g. violations of human or child rights of a UN Committee which could comment on Norway which is not bound by Norwegian law. This is the constitutional responsibility of the Foreign Minister. But if we were to implement it, it would have consequences for the justice and responsibilities of the Minister of Defence with legal certainty and courts. I would like to ask about that part of it, and my question is: if we ignore other arguments that may be more in different ways, does the Minister of Justice and Defence agree with me that such an implementation of the individual complaint system will strengthen the legal certainty of children in Norway, in isolation? And if he's disunity in it, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e491	As Solhjell himself pointed out, this is under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Of course, the Minister of Justice and Defence is behind what has been sent to the Stortinget from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e501	During this government period, the Workers’ Party has promoted five representative proposals dealing with the improvement and development of the content of Norwegian prisons and the construction of prisons in Norway. We have developed policies that deal with the content, children of prisoners, women's reconciliations and alternative forms of punishment and ways of reducing the pay queue. The Labour Party will have less crime, fewer victims and that people who have committed criminal acts will have the opportunity to reverse their lives and live better lives without crime. Good rehabilitation, not least as a prevention measure for their children, could reduce concerns and mental stress in mothers, fathers and siblings. At the same time, good content is important from a preventive societal perspective. A re-allocated welfare country is important in this work. Therefore, the Workers' Party will not give billions of dollars from the community fund to the richest in Norway. Therefore, we want the public to have primary responsibility for the key welfare services, not allowing private actors to establish themselves with parallel offers and to draw profits from the community into private bank accounts. In the three years that we have had this Minister of Justice and Solberg has been leading the government, I have had a feeling that they relate to their responsibilities, which old people relate to the past. It's better to talk about the past than ever. For the government and government parties at Stortinget, what happened from eleven to three years ago is the most talk of what happened. What happened then seems to be more important than what they themselves are responsible for. Could this be related to the fact that things have not been as good as they want? In any case, it is not in line with the promises we received before the election. Najumuddin Faraj Ahmad, Krekar, was going out. Because he was in the country because it was a labor party government. It's not anymore. Not even to the Electoral Church was able to send him to a Minister of Advance Party Justice. So he wasn't the one who was flown out of Norway when the Progress Party got the Minister of Justice, no, it was male prisoners in Norwegian prisons who were transported out by plane – to the Netherlands. Using approx. 800 000 kroner a day for three years at temporary detention centres in the Netherlands over permanent posts and permanent investments seem to be a good idea for the Minister of Justice and Erna Solberg. Unaccountable is what it is. At a time of highest unemployment, lowest employment and highest use of oil money, each krone invested in Norway would have fallen in love. Unresponsible – that's what it is. The Prime Minister spoke in his half-yearly speech about unrest and insecurity. There are also well-known concepts in the justice sector under this government – unrest, insecurity, unforeseeableness and irresponsibility. It's not to have control when you label 137.5 pst. by the budget, as the Minister of Justice has done in criminal matters. The Minister of Justice is streamlining, and the cooperation parties are overwhelming – every year. No one knows the consequences. It is neither to have control nor to be responsible State Council for services and employees. Perhaps the next steps will be to hire more bureaucrats to check the flow of money in criminal services as well. There have been particular concerns in the field of justice. It started in 2014 with the Stortinget expressing distrust of the Minister of Justice for his handling of asylum children, but the Taburight was saved. Such criticism comes only when there is a serious lack of control in the exercise of policies. Three years without monitoring gender equality developments: gender equality has declined and pay differentials have remained silent or have increased. There are three years without control of the level of violence and threats in prisons, 214 direct attacks of violence against employees in half a year and three years with massive criticisms of the reconciliation of women. The Equality Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and an Internally Established Group: Women are discriminated against, are the reports. The government is unable to secure women from violence and harassment, and they do not have the power to develop equivalent rehabilitation. Those with the weakest starting point need the best services, said Erna Solberg on TV yesterday. What we see is, in fact, a gross neglect by the Council of State and the Prime Minister. The reorganisation of criminal services was another major reform that the Minister of Justice wanted to undergo. It was parked before it came to Stortinget, by those who call themselves a constructive opposition. Had the Minister had greater capacity for implementation, this could have been different and with a better result, but then the Minister of Justice had to understand that tripartite cooperation does not mean talking to three parties and then doing as you like. It is not to be held accountable and to take control. That is exactly the opposite: lack of accountability and lack of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e525	This is the last judicial budget we debate in this period, and it is with pride that we can look back at history over these years. The right and the government base their justice policy on the need for everyday security of individuals. And this very element has been the governing force for the government's delivery in the field of justice. We have provided more than 1,600 new police posts, the prosecution is strengthened, the settlement queues are now gone, and the courts have been given new posts. We have delivered in areas by area over these years, so it can be easy to forget what the situation was like when we took over. We got a good government budget in October, which got better, especially in the field of justice, after good and long negotiations with our cooperation parties. I am very happy that we have a government and cooperation parties that not only talk about in party speeches that we are concerned about the most vulnerable. We also show it in concrete action. I remember the first year, when we had issues that pointed out challenges for the State Children's Home, where it was a long wait for a vulnerable child to come to question. Now the waiting time for questioning regarding sexual assault is reduced from then 42 days to today about 15 days. The state's children's home has been provided with new, fresh funds every year since we took over, and that's what they get for next year, which has given them the opportunity to expand both their staff and their skills. They still have a lot of access to new things. This year alone, they conducted 4,895 hearings per October, an increase of 1,230 interviews compared to the same period last year. In 2013, there were 2,652 queries. It shows a huge increase. But we can also enjoy the increase in the numbers of interrogations, when we know that there are more detections and more that get the help that is needed. The government has also granted money for expansion with a new children's home in Moss, as well as for the establishment of a satellite children's house in the lake. Violence and child abuse have been a special field of activity for this government and the cooperation parties, and it is also demonstrated by budgetary priorities. I must be allowed to extend a great thank you to all those who work in the children's homes for the efforts they make for our very most vulnerable. Another important area that has been prioritised by the government is criminal law. The government continues its efforts to meet capacity challenges, in order to ensure rapid, good and effective criminal enforcement. When we took over, there were 1,213 people in a reconciliation queue – 1,213 people who had their lives on hold and wanted to finish their sentence and get the opportunity to start a new life after a full atonement. In addition, there was a maintenance shift in Norwegian prisons of between 3 billion. kr and 4 brd. kr. Several prisons were, and are, at risk of being closed due to the maintenance run. We have established new prison sites within existing walls, we have started designing new prisons in Agder, we are expanding the number of women's seats, and not least we have signed a lease with the Netherlands to quickly put in place 242 closed settlements. All of this results. Now the payroll is down to 229 people. This bet continues. The budget for criminal services is increased by 60 million. kr in order to be able to extend the capacity of punishment and custody. In addition, 50 million are continued. kr for exceptional maintenance in prisons. The evaluation of the electronic control system shows good results, and the government proposes to grant 10 million. kr in 2017, so that this scheme can be extended. It gives room to increase capacity by about 40 places. The Civil Ombudsman's report refers to challenges for women in prison. The government has already taken action to improve the situation of women. There are 18 new settlements for women in Kragerø this year and in January another 20 places for women in Kongsvinger prison. And today, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are further increasing this when we create ten new closed places for women on Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e552	In addition, government parties and cooperation parties take seriously the health challenges of prison inmates. I'm very pleased that the government will grant 10 million. DKr to strengthen prison health and 12 million. kr, so that the pathfinder unit scheme can be extended to three additional prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e556	Finally, we are approaching the end of this budgetary procedure, which has been very messy by the government at first. The debate in the individual expert committees shows that the government does not take into account the seriousness and challenges facing society. Never before in recent times has unemployment been greater, and we have a government that neither takes responsibility nor does anything for the unemployed to get into work. The main priority of the government is tax cuts for those who already have the most. It doesn't create new jobs, but it increases the differences in our country. It is a fundamental value in a society that everyone can feel security in everyday life and that a safe society is a shared responsibility. The justice area is also no exception. If we are to succeed here, it depends entirely on both being invested and working well with prevention in all areas of society — especially among children and young people. Criminal policy needs to prevent better, clarify more, respond faster and rehabilitate more effectively than we see today. Today, we have a government and a government council that does not have control and that does not take responsibility. The Council of State has to ask the external authorities to help them understand their own budget, yes, external action is announced in order to find out about the use of money in the police: ‘We need to find out if the money reaches the political priorities and where the money may be used elsewhere.’ It agrees to stress that we have a Council of State that does not control the use of the money in the Norwegian police. During our reign and Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, the recording and capacity at Norway's police high school were doubled, to 720 police students, as part of Storberget Police against 2020. The situation today, according to the police directorate's own statistics as of 1 September 2016, is as follows: 8,423 paid police annuals in the twelve police districts, i.e. 65 fewer than it was one year ago and 26 fewer than it was in our time, in 2013. 262 of the 700 who completed our police high school were in police work, and only 25 of them had a regular job. Is this figure that the government, the Council of State and the Progress Party are satisfied with after having been in charge of government for almost four years? Governments have announced a review of how the money is spent, and where they are spent, and it makes it even more strange in the light of the fact that the Council of State Anundsen has used itself to earmark the funds to the police to a far greater extent than its predecessors. The three former Ministers of Justice designated between 44.3 and 50.6 pst. of the annual budget increase. For Anundsen's three budget, the figures are 77.9 pst., 109 pst. and 112 pst. What are the consequences of this? Well, it's obfuscating the police officers' room for action. In a department where a large proportion of the budget is tied up, there is the possibility of saving money with job vacancies. More police districts are forced to leave job vacancies empty to make the budget go up. Many also say that they are concerned that the threshold for entering complicated and potentially expensive criminal cases can be too high. Important investments, such as vehicles, must be postponed. In addition to a tighter designation of the free resources and poorer scope of action for police officers, this government has introduced what is called the ABE reform, i.e. the red tape and efficiency reform, which has provided a budget cut for the police in 2015–2017 of 129.7 million respectively. SEK, 96.7 million. SEK and 194.3 million. kr. This is happening at a time when the government is going to implement a police reform that they have called the near-police reform. It is tempting to ask the Council of State if he has an overview of how many fewer bureaucrats it has become, and how many more operational police posts it has become in the new police districts, which will contribute to the security of the everyday lives of everyone living in our country. Or does he also have to have an external sample here to figure this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e570	In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose to increase the free operating resources by 150 million. kr more to the police for 2017. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of demonstrating action and prioritising, so that the police can carry out their social task in such a way that people feel secure in everyday life. Unfortunately, we have a government and a government council that pushes all the important tasks ahead and that does not have control and does not take responsibility for these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e573	There have been more than three times since the government raised awareness and security in everyday life on the political agenda. It was a virtue of necessity. The reports that were on our government table were serious. It was a police analysis that said that the organisation of the Norwegian police was a direct obstacle to the development of the Norwegian police. It was a Yawn Commission that said the resources didn't find each other the day you really needed them. The heading of these two reports might as well have been: resources counter, but organization decides. This situation could not be maintained. It was District Norway in particular that had suffered damage. No matter how much resources were allocated to the police, the police's own ability to use resources had become weaker over time. I thought I would give the representative from the Workers' Party from Agder a dose from reality. She was a little daunted that there had become a lot of talk from the red-green period. Then I can bring the representative to a small description of the present. Police reform is in the process of being implemented. There will be 1,500 more years' work in the police. The police have been strengthened by nearly 5 billion. kr. The fire and rescue unit has become much better professionalised. The emergency network is being completed, 16 new rescue helicopters are being delivered, and new police helicopters are being ordered. Sometimes you may be tempted to make the words of others your own. I choose to do it this time. Then I will quote a political commentator in the Evening Post, Trine Eilertsen: ‘The Judicial Area has been a budget winner each year. The number of posts has increased dramatically [[...]] Policies work. Crime goes down, the clearance rate goes up, and the settlement queue is soon no longer than a middle Norwegian cinema. It actually means who's in charge. We see that the efforts made by the government in the area of social security and preparedness are now bearing fruit. The terrorist attacks in Nice, Brussels and Paris have shown the threat posed by international terrorist networks to individuals and communities. That's why the government has invested so heavily in the police security service. The PST is reinforced by over 300 million. kr before this budget. Now we've added 90 million. kr to a new analysis tool. The response force has a fundamental task in dealing with terrorism if terrorism were to hit our country. The response force is increased by 40 pst., has been given new material, and has a base crew of five minutes’ standby. But it's not just the response force in the Oslo area that's been strengthened. There are actually 300 more policemen out in the kingdom. They are now able to handle a sharp situation and have also got an armoured vehicle. The government has presented a 22-point action plan on labour-related crime. This plan focuses entirely on the coordinated activities of the authorities in the fight against crime at work. This is money that is made criminally, ploughs into the legal economy and jeopardizes legal, legal Norwegian businesses and undermines employment. We see trafficking in human beings, we see social dumping, and we see that respect for Norwegian rules and laws in the workplace is confusing. The government doesn't want it like that. We want an orderly working life. Then to this ABE reform. The opposition is so indignant that the government has imposed an efficiency requirement on the public sector. It's not sucked entirely of its own breast. Firstly, the OECD has recommended it. Then you can ask if the opposition has at all read the Productivity Commission. We have to remember that public enterprises are monopolies. In any monopoly it is a loss of efficiency. Now it has to be said that public enterprises have many objectives, there is a complex business, but there is a lack of the important drive that it will be when in a private market, in order to deliver better services at a lower price at all. In order to put in place some of those mechanisms, a so-called efficiency requirement has been imposed on public enterprises, which should also be possible for the Workers' Party. Finally, it seems that earring is a problem for the Workers' Party. But I think the problem is more in which ear to mark – preferably their own – because I see in the budget that the Workers' Party operates with earmarks both here and there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e602	It is a fundamental value in Norwegian society that everyone should feel secure in everyday life. To achieve this goal, a well-qualified police force is needed close to where people live and stay. The near-police reform was intended to respond to this challenge. The Labour Party has three key preconditions for the success of police reform. Firstly, that the changes should be duly justified in order to strengthen the police profession. Secondly, changes are well anchored in local populace. Thirdly, that the police are adequately secured, less earmarked and less centralised financial resources, so that enhanced local police force can be realised. I think there's a part missing that these assumptions are met. There's concern around the country about the closures of lumni offices. People go to the torch and protest. People are worried and point at the long distances it is from where the police stay, to where problems occur. It often takes a long time for the police car to arrive. In the event of an accident, it is often the fire service that comes first. They're located in the community. It's also a fear that the police are under-budgeted. Budget cuts have been made due to the red tape and efficiency reform. It is not that the Workers' Party is opposed to looking at efficiency, but it is difficult to see that the effect has been achieved. This means that this reduction affects the police’s usual means of operation. Is this, then, a poor government control or a desire to reduce the budget to the police? There is a need for growth, and the Labour Party has an increase of 150 million in its alternative budget. kr more than the government in free money for the police. We want less earring. The Labour Party also wants a greater proportion of the funds allocated to the police to be allocated to the police districts. Many police districts experience large budget deficits and depend on fresh funds. The Workers' Party is committed to preventing, combating and investigating crime in the police districts, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the economic conditions of the local branch are met as closely as possible. We need an increase in the number of police officers, as we saw in the 2011–2013 period. This government has brought down the reconciliation queue, and that's good. They chose to export the problem out of the country and appear to be satisfied with sending prisoners to Norway under responsibility, to the Netherlands. We're waiting for a report on this experiment, and we're looking forward to getting the entire accounts to buy the places in the Netherlands on the table. Solstice cows mean that we have too little prison capacity in Norway, and the Workers' Party wants us to phase out the rental agreement with the Netherlands and start building more prisons in Norway. There are several municipalities and regions that have reported their interest in building prisons, and this offer needs to be carefully assessed by the State. Building and operating prisons in Norway means jobs both during the construction period and during the operational period, and prisoners are getting more close to the local and family environment. The Labour Party believes that the main purpose of the punishment is to help reduce crime through rehabilitation and repatriation. It is important in the planning work that one facilitates real rehabilitation opportunities under restitution. The goal must be to get a life without crime for the individual. Here we can draw exchangers on a lot of good competence across the country, and I'll give you one example. I would like to refer to the work done in setting up a transitional residence with a highly multidisciplinary environment of competence on the Notodden, the so-called Notodden model. The model is based on a process from reconciliation to work and housing, with particular emphasis on strengthening the potential for success in the labour market. There may be many similar environments in the country that can provide good resources in criminal care, and I find it difficult to understand why the government will make a small offer, but which works very well: the forest labour camp department Kleivgrend in Telemark. The working party proposes to maintain this. The ability of justice policy to succeed depends on the effectiveness of prevention work in all areas of society. Criminal policy needs to prevent better, clarify more, respond more quickly and rehabilitate more effectively. This is a great collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e618	There have been four happy budgets for the justice sector these years, and since this is a budget debate, I could start by listing a wide range of things and measures that have received more money. I'm probably a little more interested in the results of what the use of money these years have led to, so we have to roll back to 2013 and try to remember what fundamental challenges the justice sector had at the time. First of all, the police were structured incorrectly. Only 85 of approx. 350 posts had enough policemen to set up a 24-hour patrol. Secondly, prison cows were miles long. It happened that the judge went free or got reduced punishment. There were record violations in the police arrests. These were things that led Norway to criticise human rights organisations. Thirdly, the prosecution authority was referred to as a solid bottleneck. The remains piled up. Fourthly, the preparedness and political leadership of the country were in a situation in which they had had had their smears, and it would have been perhaps the harshest criticism that has been addressed to the Norwegian authorities since 1945. Then you have to misunderstand me correctly: of course the previous governments have also done a lot of good action in the justice sector, but these problems that I have mentioned now, they were big, they were fundamental, and now they are far on the way. We've restructured the police. We're going to get more police force out in operations. All the honors to the parties involved in this reform, including the Workers' Party. Secondly, prison queues have now been abolished in practice. It's simply a silent revolution. It's perhaps the most impressive political achievement in this period, because it involves creative solutions that have proven to work well. Thirdly, the prosecution authority has gone through what they themselves characterise as one of the greatest uplifts of the times, and the balances are falling. Fourth and last, but not least: readiness is considerably better now than it was in 2013. I want to stay a little bit at this point about preparedness, because a good preparedness is one of the most important responsibilities, the main obligation of a government towards its citizens. When I give lectures on standby, I tend to ask the assembly which helicopter arrived at the island first. Was it the Defense? Was it the police? Was that the air ambulance? The answer is that it was NRK's helicopter that came first. This is just one of many pictures that can illustrate how the state failed its main task this day. Although the police budgets had increased and increased and increased as of 22 July, the use of money had not resulted in sufficient preparedness. It says a little about the responsibility that rested on the government when they joined in 2013. It has lived up to that responsibility. The Gjørv Commission report has been taken very seriously and has been followed up. And just to mention some of the measures: Police Director Humlegård has talked about over 1,000 new measures to improve preparedness. Delta has been expanded and set in five minutes response time. There are far more police officers now being certified as response personnel. The Police Act has been amended to improve cooperation between the Defence and Police Departments. The bomb squad is strengthened. The defense helicopter on Rygge and Bardufoss is set in one hour's standby. And the PST has made great resources to detect and avert attacks in time. One of my favorites in this year's budget is still the appropriations for new police helicopters, because that means that the police will finally have the opportunity to transport their forces into an action where it is time-critical. It gives me hope that we can say that the failure we experienced on July 22 will never repeat itself. Of course, everything is not in measure, because there are still a lot of things, but the basic assumptions are there. First of all, we're giving the government the money that's needed. And secondly, and perhaps most importantly, the government has the necessary power of action and leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e654	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e659	It has been interesting to follow the justice debate. At least there is no lack of superlatives when the Right and the Advance Party are to assess their own efforts. Now that the representatives of the government parties are praising developments in the field of justice, it appears to be a little remote from reality. For out there, there is widespread concern that the near-police reform is becoming a far-off police reform, mainly because the government is not following the reform's intentions with money and enough police. It is also supported by the Police Directorate’s statistics, which show that this government has reduced the number of annual police departments. Justice is also affected by the fact that the record high level of oil money consumption goes to unfair tax cuts and not to strengthen key societal areas such as security and preparedness. These are not tough priorities, as the Minister of Justice has said in the debate. These are the wrong priorities for Community resources. Last autumn more than 5,000 asylum seekers crossed the Norwegian Russian border on Storskog. This was completely unprepared by the central authorities with the pressures they brought to the local police district in the middle of it. It was that time, but then the question is, what has the government learned after the last harvest? Apparently nothing. The Workers' Party proposes a maximum necessary commitment to the police in addition to the government's proposal. In addition, the Workers' Party proposes a start-up grant at the border station in Storskog, because, as we saw last harvest, the infrastructure on the border with Russia is not good enough. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said last fall that this was the last government to focus on. He still has his words left. Ten years ago, the Finnish Law came into force. It was a big and important political compromise both the Stortinget and the Sametinget can be very proud to have achieved. A central part of this compromise was that the Finnmark Commission would review all private and collective rights requirements to the foundation in Finnmark. The problem is that the Commission's work is underfunded. I therefore expect the government to take responsibility for ensuring that the budget needs of the Finnish Commission are met, so that the Commission can keep progress as intended, and that the whole compromise on the Finnmarks Act was followed up as foreseen. I refer you to the Workers' Party's comment on this. Many have mentioned the legal certainty of children and the importance of children’s homes today. It's very good, but I'd like to remind you that the country's largest county and police districts still don't have children's houses. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice will make a professional assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e672	Border control is a topic of heated debate from time to time. In these debates, the Centre Party underlines the importance of adequate border control. In our alternative state budget, even this time, we have added more funds to this. Unfortunately, we have been quite alone in the fight for defence border control, but what is interesting in the attitude of the Justice Committee to the Stortinget, which we have on the table today, is that the Committee majority is now making it clear that border control is important. They point out that ‘border control and border crossing have to do with national security’. And on the other hand, ‘The majority will also claim that if persons who are not to have access to the kingdom are stopped by attempts at border crossing, it would be more socio-economic than looking for persons without legal residence afterwards.’ This is a reasonable point of view I agree with the plurality. Border control is important for the security of the state, for the prevention of cross-border crime and for better control of who comes and lives in Norway. I would like to remind you that earlier this year I have tabled a proposal for a representative in the form of Liv Signe Navarsete and Per Olaf Lundtigen that Norway should step out of the Schengen border rules. Due to the freedom of passports in the Schengen area, there is no control over who crosses the borders between the Contracting countries, and the external borders play as a large number of places. Since its launch, the Centre Party has been very clear that building up national borders between countries would lead to problems with more cross-border crime. The Schengen border rules take away important tools to stop criminals and criminal environments, including terrorists. For the police as well as for the courts and criminal services, it would mean a lot if we got more control of the borders again. Societal economics would simply be enormously profitable, even more expenditure on border control itself. The temporary and limited border controls we have today are based on mercy from the Schengen system and cannot be maintained as a permanent system, despite the strong need for border control, as the majority seem to have realised. One should also soon realise that police cooperation with Schengen countries should be possible even if we introduce national border controls. The United Kingdom is doing this, and they are outside Schengen. I will end by recommending the plurality to follow up with the Central Party's policy in this area and in the future to vote in favour of proposals that can ensure just such a good, defenceful and socio-economical frontier control as the plurality itself describes in our vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e690	There are a few themes I would like to touch a little bit more closely, which have been addressed by several representatives. One applies to ear marking. It's actually a pretty interesting discussion, because there's two different ways to think about it. One might imagine giving a bag post without giving any direction as to how the money should be used, or one might say that the money should be used in very specific areas. Some of this designation goes to employees in order to achieve the target of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. Much of the increase in earmarked funds has been directed at children and young people, including young people. Children's house. It's been ringing for prosecution. What one really should ask questions about is, which of these bets is it a don't want to earmark money for? Now, when a budget increases and politicians want to have a certain impact on what the money will be used for, earmarking is an instrument. But it's actually an interesting discussion that should be addressed at a slightly general level in the field of governance of the state sector. The ABE reform is almost presented as if it were just a reform for the police. It is not, it is a reform that will apply to state activities in general. But it also creates potential challenges. That's why it's important to get the information the Workers' Party's representatives have actually been looking for here: are we getting out of the ABE reform the efficiency we want, or is it really cut? The aim is that this should not go beyond the provision of services but contribute to improving the efficiency of the use of public resources. When we then implement measures by ordering external work to go through the whole of business and budgeting, we also get the jam of criticism for it, even though that is something that should actually be done in large state enterprises from time to time: going through the impact of the political constraints and policies. Because there is no doubt that the sum of political goodwill is often demanding to get to the other end when it goes through the resource situation that you actually have in state institutions, including the police. So I had hoped that there was a slightly more constructive approach to these issues. On the near-police reform, I should just like to say briefly that there have actually been surprisingly few torches. KS is satisfied with the process. We have received feedback from several central party rapporteurs who are very pleased with the process, so I am a little surprised that the central party rapporteurs we hear from say something quite different than the representative from whom Klinge hears. With regard to police and the growth of police services, I think the figures from both Jorod Asphjell and Lise Wiik must be due to a misunderstanding, because now there are 800 more police officers on 30 November 2016 than it was on 31 December 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e701	In the context of the budgetary procedure and Question 150, it was initially said that the government does not know the extent of the ICT lag in the police, that they have no plan to monitor this work, nor what it will cost in the future. The question in this regard was as follows: ‘How many crowns have been granted for this purpose in the period 2013-2016? How much money must be allocated in the coming years, and when is it planned to complete ICT modernisation?’ The answer from the Council of State was that he could not answer these numbers. My question about the Council of State today is ready to answer questions 150, as was asked at the time. In the 2017 Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party, we have chosen to strengthen the budget of the voluntary rescue organisations. Social security and preparedness are the most important areas of our time. The working party chooses to bet on this field. Among other things, we have set of 10 million. kr to regional practice centre on Rygge. We've put in $10 million. extra to regional training centres around the other districts. But at a time when we see the need to invest in this, we experience great uncertainty in the area of social security and preparedness. In the 2017 budget, the Council of State decides to cut the budget of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness by 20 million. kr – Chapter 451, entry 01. Can the Council of State assure us today that this will not go beyond the work of social security and preparedness, which is to ensure that our citizens around the country feel secure in their everyday lives, no matter where they should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e715	There have been some things in the debate here that I wonder about. One of the attack lines of the Workers' Party seems to be going on this ABE reform. I have some problems seeing what the option should be, as far as I can see, the Labour Party has also accepted the reform in many ways, but must nevertheless be critical of its implementation. In any case, the Labour Party seems to call for more reports, even more form fields, to find out if a red tape reform is working. It reminds me a little bit of the ‘Yes Minister’ series, where they were going to set up a Cut Directorate to find out if you needed more cuts. I think the position of the Labour Party should be more positive to this reform. 0.8 pst. is at least in a Scandinavian context very low. We have neighbouring countries, which we usually like to compare with, which carry out significantly greater efficiency improvements in the public sector. Taking into account that the Norwegian public sector is also larger than in our neighbouring countries, there should definitely be room to implement a reform like this. We know it from our own business and have examples of big organizations that change and manage to cut both 20 and 30 times more than what we're talking about here, so it should definitely be an affordable task. Then I would like to point out the proposal of the Centre Party to cut the Netherlands agreement with immediate effect. There are some rather problematic aspects to that proposal. First, the whole argument is based on a wrong basis, they say it is not built in Norway — yes, it definitely does. Here, projects are being built – it's just to read in the budget setting, so you can see that it's being added to more new prison sites around the country. Secondly, it is a grossly irresponsible policy, in my opinion. This is the key to the success we've had in removing the reconciliation queue. So that's a very eye-catching policy. Thirdly, figures are actually cheating, in order to remove the budgetary impact from next year is contrary to the Treaty concluded with the Netherlands. So we're talking about a central government budget bomb in the hundreds of millions class. I know this isn't a Question Time, but I would have liked to hear what the Center Party is explaining its alternative budgeting with, because it's simply unprofessional, as I can see it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e724	After hearing Mr Pedersen's speech, you can wonder if the Labour Party is still behind the police reform. They should at least repeat their own comments that were written in the matter when it was dealt with in Stortinget. The centre party has resorted to such a provocative, seductive speech in terms of police reform. This is something that the districts come out unfavorably. It's actually doing the districts a bear service. There has been an unintended centralisation of Norwegian police over many years, precisely because many of the small police districts and small relief offices have not been able to do the job they were supposed to do. Major police districts and special agencies have had to step in and take over tasks. It is this development that is now to be reversed. So the Center Party writes in its comments that it's important to have the police where people live. Yes, that's also the government's concern. It is now time to slack off the requirement that is currently in the law that police officers should live in their place of employment. Now it should be possible to live where you live, for example. to improve the local presence of the police. But as important as the police live where people live, you get a police officer who comes when you need it, and who is competent to solve those problems in an increasingly advanced and demanding crime scene. Then it is so positive for the government parties – and I would like to join the Workers' Party, because they were part of the reform – to read the wording in the NRK Nordland today where the Workers' Party rapporteur in Sørfold stands up and says that Sørfold Municipality has got a better police force. They have more patrols, and there's a more competent police force coming when the people of Southfold call the police. So, the intention of the reform is about to be fulfilled. Wasn't that nice, the Center Party? Another example, from Røros: Last year, Holtålen County Länsmannskontoret and Røros Løros Länsmannskontoret found out that they were going to put their brawls together. That is, they merged the two officers' offices, and through the simple grip they actually got one more police patrol. The basic problem is what the Minister of Justice said, that 18 years' worth of work is needed to put one patrol in place. If we get too many police offices that are not able to do so, you will in a way not be able to make the best use of the entire pool. The problem — and that’s where the basic problem lies, and it’s deeply serious — is that of 352 police offices/members’ offices, only 82 are able to set up a patrol. We can't do that in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e737	Jenny Klinge has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e742	In many offices they are able to set up patrols precisely because they work with other officers' offices, and cooperation is good. To the representative Frølich to cut the deal with the Netherlands: Yes, we do it in our alternative state budget just as the Left does it, which is the co-operation party of the government. So I want to know if Frölich is as skeptical to the Left's proposal as he is to us. We have done the same in each alternative state budget and are opposed to the agreement. That's why we don't spend money on the agreement either. So I would say that in his reply to me in the reply, the Council of State did not give a clear answer as to what he would do with these less officers' offices he has previously criticised that it is a problem that they are part-time, which now turns out to be part of the new portfolio of Länsmann's office in the future, if we should call it that. I don't even think there's necessarily a problem with a part-time employee office if they spend time on prevention and research, but I want to be right if the Council of State guarantees that there won't be a new round of closure in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e752	While the Right Representative of the Rivers is reassured by the Eilertsen political commentator of the Evening Post, the Minister is therefore not reassured. It may be that he has not read Eilertsen's chronicle before he asked for an extra review of the economy linked to the police. Listening to the government's presentation of justice policy over the three years they've been in power is almost like watching the film Anundsen made – bragging on bragging. It was pretty short, that movie, so it's taken a little longer here today to talk about everything they think is so very good. The film cost the community approx. 150 000 kroner, which corresponds to the operation of 55 prisons, but we have to accept that at the end of a government period. Then I also have a comment for Frölich, who says that the Workers' Party is not too efficient to use money – so we are, but we want to know what they are going to do. To the representative Frölich: It is not the Labour Party who employs bureaucrats – it is this government. There have never been so many bureaucrats in any government apparatus. As far as I remember, the Left and Christian People's Party in the conciliation, in the budget agreement, this year, has been given an explicit sentence that the number of bureaucrats should decrease. So it's not the Workers' Party that's bureaucratic, it's actually this government. And when they have a way of driving policies that don't have an idea of what they're spending the money for, I understand that they need people to do it, but they can't say that they have full control. That's what's our point about the ABE reform. They don't have control, and as far as I know, they don't have it in any departments, nor in the health sector, nor in the other departments. But it'll be cut, yes, and it's flat savings and savings. That is what is really the purpose and outcome of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e761	Let me first try to answer a little more concretely to the representative Klinge in the case of Länsmannskontoren. What was my point in the answer is that we're going to have a great variety of cannibal offices around Norway, because we live where we live – Norway has the geography of Norway, and it's important that we ensure a service offer to everyone, wherever they live, that is consistent with the close police reform. But I also think it's important not to go around and think that a lot of janitor's offices in themselves have a lot to do with readiness, because they don't actually. It may be important for some other circumstances, but it means very little to the actual preparedness. As the representative of Klinge is certainly familiar with, the Stortinge has decided what this process should be like. Now the police officers have made their final proposals to the Police Directorate, and the Police Directorate is the one to take a final decision, and then the Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal if any of the conditions laid down in the proceedings of the Storting are not met. But I would also like to stress what I might not have time to say in the line: I think it is very good work done by those who work at these offices. It's not those who work there, which is the challenge, it's the structure in which they work, which creates quite great difficulties. That is why this is a very important and correct reform. I think it's a little sad that the Center Party doesn't have more focus on how to use the possibilities we now have, to strengthen the local police force, to strengthen the prevention work, to free up capacity and resources to implement what we all agree on is so important, instead of believing – because that's how I see the representative Klinge – that the police we have today will solve all future challenges optimally. There is almost no one in this country who really agrees – except the Center Party. So a very brief comment to the representative Henriksen: If you can operate 55 prisons with 150 000 kroner, I would have almost said that the representative would then be offered quickly, for cheaper prison places you should look for a long time. It wasn't 150 million. NOK this information video cost, it was NOK 150 000 – or well below it. Finally, I just want – in what may be the last article on my part in this budget debate, we'll have to wait and see – to mention that the Workers' Party has about 20 billion. more to be made available in its budget, through re-priorities and tax increases. They suggest to the justice sector a little above 100 million. kr in real strength – net. There is no strong commitment, and at least it is not something that legitimizes the violent attacks that some representatives of the Labour Party have allowed themselves from this pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e774	The representative Peter Christian Frölich has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e780	I just want to assure the representative Klinge that I am skeptical of any party that wants to abolish an intergovernmental agreement without apparently having read the contract text. I'm skeptical of all parties engaged in alternative budgeting based on a false and unrealistic basis. I was just asking for the word to mention a little hidden tax in the setting, namely the comment that the Activator portal is now to be made mandatory. I never thought that such a small note could make so many people so happy, but it is very happy that, among other things. The jury is among those who report back again with great enthusiasm that this will save time and resources for the courts, and I just want to thank the committee for agreeing unanimously to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e787	Those who read the position of the Judicial Committee – I guess it's not that many people outside of this Chamber – will probably ask themselves some questions, and I'm thinking especially of those who read the comments of the Centre Party. In addition, if you read the minutes of this debate and see what the Central Party says about centralization, you really have to start wondering whether you think Norway should be more insecure, because the only answer from the Central Party is that they want 19 police districts, not 12. Apart from that, they don't have a single answer, except that everything should be the way it is. We know that the world is changing, crime is changing dramatically, it's getting more organized, more demanding, more international and more sophisticated, but in the Central Party's world, the police can't change anything in the world. You can't even touch a single loner's office that's open three hours a week. Then you can ask yourself, has it not made any impression on the Center Party when you read that the preparedness failed, as it says in the Gjørv Commission's report? Does it not make any sense to read the Police Analysis that today's structure, which we are about to change, leads to massive and unintentional centralisation because resources and competences are being moved centrally from the local level? Have you asked yourself in the Center Party or have you had any reflections about all of the offices that have been merged in the past? From my own county, I mention the Smoke and Hurum, which are merged into one Länsmannskontoret, and I mention Ringerike and Hole, which is merged into one Länsmannskontoret. I haven't seen a single central party representative who wants to reverse that process, but you have to stop anywhere else. So I really have to ask myself, will the Central Party really make the country less secure? I don't think they will, but I still ask myself the question when I read the arguments or the lack of reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e794	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e799	I finally need to say something about prison places, because it sounds like this government didn't build a single prison place in Norway before this government came into place. So the previous government was able to solve the compensation problems by having prisons in Norway. 675 new prison sites and 870 settlement sites were built during our period. We were ahead with new alternative forms of reconciliation, which the current government parties were against – now they are too. And we built doubles. This government is building it up. These are the figures the Minister of Justice himself has delivered to Stortinget, so I expect him to acknowledge them. In terms of prison and state council films, I did not say anything about the time perspective, but about prison days. So it's not a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e806	I agree that one might say a lot strangely about the Center Party, but one cannot say what the representative Werp was up here saying, namely that they are unwilling to change, and that they make the country less secure. It's de facto error. The Central Party suggested quite early that a reform be carried out for the police and that the structure should have 19 police districts. They also had a proper foundation for why they wanted it, linked to the state structure. The Labour Party chose to make a compromise with the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but it is an honest thing that the Centre Party has done to choose a device for the police reform that is different from what we have chosen. The center party also does another thing that I appreciate, and that the Labour Party has cooperated a lot with them about. It's to bet on the communities. It's important because it's where the prevention takes place. That's what has the greatest meaning of being able to prevent crime and recruitment for crime, or to prevent the development of an unfortunate and unwanted environment, which could lead to our country becoming unsafe. Several representatives of the Labour Party have expressed concern at the implementation of the police reform. As the representative, Mr Solhjell, said earlier in the debate, it is not by decisions that the police reform is being implemented. It's in implementation. And the responsibility for implementation lies on the government and on the underlying budgets. I now record that up to several people are concerned about how this is being implemented, whether it is well enough anchored in the community, whether the reform has the legitimacy to be able to cope. When such concerns come in as big a pattern as this, I think the Council of State must take it seriously, he must answer properly the questions he gets, he must secure the speakers who are troubled, he must secure the people out there who are worried about getting a worse police offer. When we have been able to adopt a police reform, we are responsible for its proper implementation. The Labour Party will ask the necessary critical questions in the role we have in opposition, and we expect the Council of State to follow it up properly. It is also true that the Labour Party believes that the police need a proper economy in order to carry out this reform. That's also why we've chosen to add 150 million. kr more than the government has done. It's not enough, but it's something – and it's more than the Right and the Progress Party have put on the table. I notice that Anundsen thinks that 150 million. kr is more or less nothing, or that it corresponds somehow to his own budget. What does he mean, then, about own budgets, when he has put forward a budget that has such thorough earmarks that the police have no local freedom of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e821	The last one is an interesting reflection. I do not record that the Workers' Party in particular in its alternative budget removes these ringings or says that we should not spend money on staffing, or that we should not spend money on children's houses. But there's a discussion about how much to use designation as an instrument. In the situation we've been in, we've thought it's been right. One may have to adjust it gradually, especially when one is able to achieve the results that the designation is actually intended to ensure. I would like to comment briefly on the contribution of the representative Henriksen, who claimed that the Workers' Party solved the reconciliation queue in his time in government. When we took over on October 16, 2013, there were 1,213 people standing in a payroll queue. I think we just have to realize that we look differently at what it is to solve a problem. It was 229 last Friday. Now we believe that the problem has been solved, and there is not one inmate who has been released earlier, who was the Labour Party solution – I think it was in 2009, where one had a great clean-up, and how many were given the opportunity to release something earlier to help reduce the pay queue. It's not a solution that the government thinks is good, but now we've removed the queue by definition. I fully agree with what the chairman of the committee says about the implementation of the reform of the neighbourhood police. It is very important to follow closely and carefully both from the Department and from the Police Directorate. That's something we're doing. We have also recently met with KS, as I mentioned in my previous post, who reports that what they hear from their members is that the process is good. There will always be concern in large conversion processes, and it is our responsibility to contribute to informing and providing information as much as possible to ensure that these reforms are implemented in the most secure and good way possible. I believe we have done so, but there is always an enormous need for information during such reforms. We're going to do what we can to satisfy the need and make sure that we get the police service that people require. I didn't mean to be rude to the Center Party because they mean anything other than what we think about what the local police should be – not at all. In fact, I believe that it is necessary if we are to solve the challenges of the future, that we also have a different structure. The Central Party has also contributed to ‘centralising’ from 27 to 19 police districts. It is quite a centralisation, if the centralisation perspective is limited to the number of police districts. The difference between 19 and 12 is what it is. So the Central Party has also contributed to the desire to restructure the Norwegian police, even if it is not in accordance with what the majority in the Chamber wants. Briefly on the ABE reform: I have not seen in the Workers' Party's alternative budget that it has been proposed removed, so it must have some support there as well. Then I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation. There has been a great impact on the government in recent years. I'm very happy about that, and I want to wish you all a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e836	What makes me take the floor is that the representative, Mr. Werp, and, in part, the Council of State, instead of explaining all the good aspects of the police reform, chooses to use their efforts to attack the Central Party. Then they may have thought that the Center Party had released for speaking time, but we don't! The representative, Mr. Werp, was up here talking about the Central Party not wanting any kind of change, that we're not concerned about police terms. Of course we are, of course, we're concerned about it. Instead of doing the centralization of the times, which is now actually being done within the police, we're doing instead of doing the depreciation of the times, as the majority of people have now done when they leave this whole process to the Police Directorate and then sit on their high horse and say that people might need a little more information about what's going on. Instead of government taking responsibility for the structural changes that you are making, you choose to criticize those who have a different opinion than a sail in the political image. It is such that the number of police districts is greatly reduced. It's not the most problematic thing. The most problematic is the strong downscaling we now see of the number of canned offices. That's what creates great insecurity out there among people. What is also problematic is the fact that the central unit, the Police Directorate, is growing strongly, while the local units are perplexing. Every third county official's office disappears. There are demonstration trains after demonstration trains out in the municipalities. People don't understand it, and the problem of the Right and Advance Party is that people don't trust the reform, they don't trust what these parties say either. It's no wonder, no one really believes in the oral cavity that has come to realize that this is a near-police reform. No further information is needed, as the Council of State was involved in its statement. No, because this is not about people not knowing their own best, it is about people not accepting the kind of centralisation and the kind of political disclaimer that the majority of people have done in terms of police organisation in Norway. They are now implementing a process of police centralisation that is completely without legitimacy. Every day, the fire department is going to take over police duties in the districts. Every day is that even with the closure of more than 100 loner offices, the rest of the loner offices are going to be open to only 16 o'clock a day. After all, it was a main argument from the representative, Werp, that a man’s office would now be open 24 hours a day. Yeah, where's it going to be? Not in my state, at least. The police contacts that are supposed to replace people's need for security are no one who knows what power and authority there is. Probably nothing, they just have to be there like a ferniss in the community for people. The centre party insists that this is the centralisation of the times, and the Right Party and the Advance Party are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e851	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e857	What makes me take the floor is the intervention of the representative, Hadia Tajik. The logical consequence of her reasoning is that the more local police, the better prevention. It is possible that it is a separate opinion, but at least it does not match what is written in the official document of Stortingen. If you look at the police analysis, you can see that the prevention work has unfortunately been somewhat vocal in the police in general. It's driven by fires, it's been a little career-intensive, it's had weak management anchoring, and it's been very varied. As a result of the police reform, prevention will be given a completely different management base and put in a much better system so that better and more similar preventive work is done in police and police Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e862	The representative Anders B. Werp has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e867	To the representative of Arnstad, who is very much talking about responsibility: we all agree on that. But the representative Arnstad fails to provide a single answer to the responsibility of her own party, except that everything should be as it is – no change, except that one can stretch to reduce from 27 to 19 police districts. The representative Arnstad does not answer how to solve crime trends, how to break down more paedophilia in the long term – demanding research and major issues are happening in the neighbourhood – how to detect and solve more of the data crime that is happening and that is growing rapidly, in all our neighbourhoods, and how to combat violence in close relationships. That is what police reform is all about. The centre party has still not given a single answer to what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e874	The central party has a comprehensive budget, in which, among other things, we have a budget. propose more money to the Norwegian police than the Right and the Advance Party do in their proposal. The Central Party had its own proposal in dealing with police reform, which was about to maintain and develop a local police force. The fact that one here is trying to put investigation capacities for serious crime like pedophilia or other things up against the local police, which is what Mr. Werp is doing, is completely unnecessary, and so does the representative, Mr. Werp. If this government had been willing to bet on the Norwegian police, one could have taken care of both parts. The point is that this government is making a choice. They are not concerned with everyday crime out in the community; they are not concerned with how local police are going to do prevention work. They are concerned that resources need to be used elsewhere. Instead of increasing the resources of the police, they choose to turn it away from the local communities. It's completely unnecessary, in the opinion of the Center Party. And I have to say, when the representative of Riveres here says that the prevention work is given a completely different, a management, anchoring: does the representative understand how Greek it sounds? It's completely unreasonable – it's just such a mouth that's been involved in this reform work for a long time, just in line with the concept of close-up police. The point is that if there is less local police, fewer policemen out in the community, there will also be less preventive work, and less work will be done on everyday crime. That is the major problem of this centralisation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e885	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e901	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e917	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e930	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. It became a different process than usual. Anyway, you've managed to do it in a good way. I also thank the committee secretary and consultant. The 2017 government budget continues its fight against unemployment and will contribute to reducing unemployment in 2017. The budget is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. One must prevent people from falling out of the labour market and important social arenas. Therefore, the government maintains the exceptionally high level of labour market measures. The possibility of receiving daily allowance during leave and during training has been extended. We have strengthened Nav in our own big-time message, and new of the year is that we more than double Nav's redispatch authorisation, to 100 million. kr. We believe, we assume, and we expect it to contribute to more local discretion of Nav, more seamless measures for the unemployed and reduced waiting time for those waiting for labour market measures for the first time. In 2017, we will also introduce a new youth effort, which will provide jobseekers under 30 years of age with a job-oriented offer if they have been available for more than eight weeks. We start with it in my home country, Rogaland, where the time off is the greatest. New of the year – for 2017 – is that very many of the refugees who have come to Norway will try to get a job the next year. We therefore establish a fast track into the labour market for those who have asked for skills, for example by: use of wage subsidies in combination with Norwegian training, because we know that it is usually at work that you learn Norwegian as quickly as possible. It is important for us to prevent young people from entering into a passive life. Therefore, we impose an activity obligation on young social welfare recipients. The 2017 budget continues and strengthens the government's commitment to work, activity and conversion from this year onwards. We see that weaker crowns contribute to new growth. Low interest rates and striking fiscal policies increase domestic demand. Recently, we've seen the trend towards rising oil prices. Together with a strong commitment to culture, knowledge and research, this will contribute positively. Norway needs more private jobs to contribute to the State budget, not more living in the state budget. That's been our starting point. Therefore, it is important for the Right to contribute to job creation and to have it as our most important priority task. We therefore focus on knowledge, research and innovation in the budget. We build more road and track and guarantee companies competitive conditions. The government has a separate action package of 4 billion. kr, with specific measures to combat unemployment, in particular targeting the South and West. There are municipalities like my own, Haugesund, and neighbouring municipalities Karmøy, Stavanger, Sandnes, Sola and Egersund who fortunately – or unfortunately – run off with the largest action posts from this sum. In addition, the government also has a number of investments in the exceptional maintenance of museums, hospitals and infrastructure – roads, pedestrian and cycle routes – flood measures, tailor-made measures, upgrade of research vessels, maintenance grants, etc. We are continuing labour market measures at a high level. We see that the rules of leave, which we extended with the social partners last year, are working as intended this year. I am also impressed by the ability to switch in a number of companies, who together with Nav are using the enterprise-internal training measure according to their purpose, according to Storting's purpose. I'm very happy to see that. We see that the government's maritime strategy helps to make the situation of the maritime industry, for shipping companies and seafarers, somewhat easier. Just a short time ago, the news came that the government is legislating the net pay scheme, as the first government that actually rates the net pay scheme. For us, it is also important that young people who drop out of high school quickly return to education, to a job market or to work. What we're doing now, which is also going to have an effect in 2017, is that those who don't complete within time, today have to wait until they're 25 years old before they get a new right to secondary education. We're changing that rule with new legislation. To quote freely from one of our most beautiful Christmas lyrics: the government ‘lights our lights when it darkens’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e965	In a statement in Stavanger Aftenblad in February this year, the representative Kambe was very critical of his own government because it did not pay enough attention to measures to counteract the unemployment. In the year’s budget, the government is continuing the level of action at the same level as in the autumn, and the only new measure, as the representative Mr Kambe referred to now, is a redispatch authorisation. At the same time, we see that the crisis package is reduced by 1 billion. kr. In February, the unemployment rate was 130 000. Now 135,000 are available. According to Tekna and NITO in Rogaland, the number of completely unemployed people has increased by 11 pst. in the House of the Representative since November last year. Is the representative Kambe satisfied with the development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e970	It must be based on a great misunderstanding if the representative Aasrud believes that I criticized the government in the evening magazine in February this year. What I actually did was look ahead, because we were working on a revised state budget, and what I was talking about was exactly what the government introduced in the revised state budget, namely that you had to have a separate package of measures to the South-West. In the evening magazine, I mentioned five counties: Rogaland, Hordaland, East Ageds, West Ageds, Moors, and Romsdal. It was precisely those states that, a few months later, entered a package of measures, where we have had a lot of money to help reduce unemployment there. At the same time, in Rogaland, we are starting work on youth action. Today, too, the government is placing a heavy investment package in the Rogaland, the North-Jären package, which will contribute to investments worth several billion dollars, and we have a huge investment in maritime industry, which is to ensure Norwegian employment at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e975	What I hear the representative Kambe reply now must mean that he is satisfied with his own efforts when unemployment has increased by 5000 since the last time he was concerned about development. In his own home country, unemployment increases a lot. In Stavanger, the unemployment rate is now record high. The number of long-term unemployed has increased by 19 pst. last year. Municipalities in the Rogalands area report 40 pst. increase in the payment of social assistance. One of the things that the representative Mr Kambe mentioned in his speech was to introduce the obligation of activity for young social workers. What measures and activities does the representative Kambe intend to offer them to municipalities when they receive one hundredth of a month? We know that there are no ordinary tasks to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e980	No one in this room can be satisfied that unemployment is rising in selected counties and in some municipalities. Even if it goes down into 14 counties, it goes up into some of the other counties, including mine. Therefore, the government for 2017 is working on introducing additional measures that should be specially designed to help with unemployment rates in Rogaland. In the case of the long-term unemployed, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have their own comment in the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee today asking the government, together with Nav and some municipalities, to launch specific projects and measures to contribute to the long-term unemployed. With regard to the question of the obligation of activity for young people and the measures in question, it may be anything from a point of view. 2 on leaving food for the elderly, there may be an additional assistant in the home care service, there may be an additional janitor, forest cleaning or other things, or ordinary labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e988	We hear here that the representative Kambe also sees that the vacancy goes up. Does that mean, then, that he believes that the government has been too late with its actions, so that you are now in a situation where unemployment is increasing instead of falling? If these measures had been launched by the representative Mr Kambe in February of a year ago, would we not have been in a different situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e993	I think we should respect that this is not a quick fix situation. This is about major global challenges, with so low an oil price that businesses stop investing. It has major consequences largely in the private sector alone. It is relatively difficult for a government to do something about the oil price, even though it is now rising. But we still need to focus on helping where we can, and that's why we're doing a lot of research, a lot of education, a lot of development, we're strengthening Nav, we're increasing the number of action sites, and we're doing what we can to get the effect on the maintenance pot. I still have the benefit of experiencing a single enterprise or a single unemployed person who thinks we're getting better at 10 billion. kr from the Workers' Party which is squandered over the heads of enterprises which are now fighting to keep their equity for investment, or people who are on day-to-day pay and have lost income. The workers' party's tax increases are not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1000	It's a fact that the differences between people are increasing under this government -- we're constantly getting new messages about it. The reasons lie both in the labour market, they are in fiscal policy, and they lie in social benefits. We are constantly told that the differences are increasing despite the convicts that a person wants the opposite. What is the most important reason why differences are increasing is an immigration of labour which distorts working conditions and which makes those who are weaker in the Norwegian labour market from before even weaker. The background to this is the EEA Agreement on the freest immigration of labour from areas with completely different conditions. Does the representative Kambe see weaknesses in the EEA Agreement as regards countering disparities in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1011	With regard to the increase in differences in society, the latest reports showed that they increased most below the red-green, while Per Olaf Lundtegen was in majority on the Stortinget, and the Labour Party had the Social Minister. We're trying to do something about this, with concrete measures. We know that the best way to get out of poverty traps is to learn and master Norwegian, but not least to get a job. That's why the government is working on it. By default, Lundtigen has a problem description that the EEA Agreement is the root of all evil. The government has a different starting point. The EEA Agreement contributes to securing Norwegian jobs, it contributes to ensuring Norwegian competitive business, and it is almost unthinkable to have an former representative of a government party who, at this time, once again wants to focus on the EEA Agreement, which weakens Norwegian employment, weakens Norwegian businesses and will increase unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1018	My line is about paper, or more specifically a sheet. My committee leader, Kambe, is on a proposal to save a little bit of money that means that the old people, as we call them, those who get their pay through Nav, will no longer get their paycheck on paper. They can't do this with the Internet, they can't do this with PCs, they haven't even kept in a PC or an iPad. So I have a question and a question to the committee leader about whether he can be on a quick fix, which he was inside in the main post, now during the afternoon when we're going to vote, and let the elderly who want to, and who are now calling us down, still get their bill on paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1025	This is a matter which a majority in the Committee, with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, have also said something about. I also understand that the Committee agrees that the digitisation of the public sector will continue too fully, but I also note that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, in his own letter to the Committee, in opinions in the media and in letters to Nav, has said that if there is the last way out for people who have no chance at all to receive or understand what to have, through the digital, whether it is Altin or other things, then one should still have the opportunity to do so. But the council also comes back to the hall again today and will certainly be able to answer it. I think the Council of State has handled it very well, and I also think that the Labour Party has done so, and we have said that it was the Labour Party that started that reform. We're going to complete it, and we're going to make it even easier for the citizens of Norway in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1035	When we go into Christmas in a week's time, it's in a situation of historically high unemployment. It's a situation where more people are dependent on receiving economic social assistance. There is one situation where more people are insecure also by those who have jobs, where a smaller proportion of the population are in work, and where the differences are increasing. That situation requires action. Norway is on the wrong track. That's why it was a big surprise when the government actually managed to put forward a government budget where it reduces its efforts towards high unemployment, by 1 billion. kr. In the budget chaos we have experienced in the autumn, the themes I mentioned now have not been those that have been changed. They should have been. Norway can do better than that. Our option is a targeted approach to the most important issue: unemployment. Then we have to bet widely, we have to bet on business policy, where our 250 million bet. Environmental technologies can contribute to both creating new job opportunities and contributing to more climate-friendly development in the future, where our commitment to the potential of forestry to contribute to the development of the next generation of biofuels is also an action in the field of good climate change, and where the mapping of the mineral resources we propose – where we have also strengthened the budget significantly – is in line with what I now see to be the main theme of the NHO conference, namely the many opportunities in Norwegian nature, to create values in an environmentally friendly way. We are proposing a wide range of broadband investments. This is because technology development is crucial for economic development across the country. We're betting on top industrial centres because the already advanced technology we have in Norway, which is an export success for us because of good conversion processes, can be further developed, so we're still the best at what we're good at. We are betting on elves in terms of replacement programmes, because it provides opportunities for those Western shipyards that now have little to do, at the same time as it is a technology shift, and at the same time it is in the direction of better climate policies. We also focus widely on education, because the time we are in now is definitely a time that calls for us to use it to increase the competence of those who need it and want it. That's why we're proposing 3,000 more places of study, we're proposing 300 more places of study, and we're proposing 175 million. kr more for apprenticeship grants, just to invest in knowledge. Then there is labour market policy, which will build up in all the other policies to create growth and jobs in Norway. There, of course, we propose several areas of action, both for those with reduced working capacity and for ordinary places of action – 2,000 in total. I have to say it is quite special when you see that in the reduced package of measures against unemployment presented by the government, they book that there is an extra bet of 750 million. in action areas, while there is no increase in the budget at all — not at all. They're able to theoretically write down that it would be 750 million. kr less if unemployment had not been so high. It's amazing. Well, we need better real science skills. We propose to increase the wage subsidy, both because it is needed in the general labour market, and not least because of those who are now to be integrated into Norwegian society. And the same thing is why we're increasing Job Glove by 10 million. kr. We also have a special investment in the Nav Young and Youth Guarantee, of 50 million. Dr, because the worst thing that this society can offer to our youth generations is to start their professional career as a jobless person. In addition to the fact that many are insecure for the job, the government has made sure that more people are insecure in the job. The government described this on July 7th of this year: ‘Working life crime has become more widespread, has become more serious and has become more complex, according to reports from the agencies.’ It was then to be expected that the government would take some action to meet this development. But when the state budget came, we sent a letter to the Council of State asking what new steps are now being taken to meet that development. Here's the answer: ‘There is no new specific investment in the 2017 draft budget.’ This after having had such a good description of how this area of society evolves – it's embarrassing. And unfortunately, there was no theme in the budget chaos in the fall, except that the Christian People's Party and the Left got into the Employment Centre, which we also have in our alternative budget, and honor them for it. But apart from that, this wasn't a theme. Then I have to say that there is an offensive alternative. We propose to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate vigorously, for it is those who can really take hold when someone discovers work-life crime out there. We are proposing to strengthen regional protection agencies, because they are at the workplace of daily workers, who look at them when they are exposed to unprofessional competition. We are putting more emphasis on the tripartite sector programme. One example is Petroleum Control, which also points back to a situation where unemployment is high. We now see in the North Sea that the cuts in the economy out there also cause them to push on maintenance missions. Then we will strengthen the Labour Inspectorate for 1) to be sure that safety is not affected, while 2) creating activity in an area where we currently have too low activity. These are the contexts that you can see. In addition to purely appropriations, changes in the labour environment law and strengthening cooperation with the parties are required in order to meet these developments. The sum of the policies we are now seeing gives rise to greater differences. It is not so strange when you give more tax credits to the few and the richest and kittens for weak groups, for example. 146 million. kr in small cuts that the government allows to take from the very weakest in the extra benefits of society. And then the differences get bigger. Or: When the government systematically cuts for the unemployed, the differences become larger. The Ministry of Finance, signed by the Minister of Finance, confirmed to me that, in fact, the differences in Norway are increasing. They had to because the Minister of Finance had been in the Grand Duchy and claimed that the differences in Norway did not increase. Today's figures from the Statistical Central Bureau confirm that the differences continue to increase. Wage differentials are increasing — of course, when social dumping is pushing down low wages and when high wages are rising more — income disparities are increasing, and wealth disparities are increasing dramatically. We believe that Norway is going in the wrong direction. We make an alternative course visible in order to get higher employment, less unemployment, increased efforts to tackle the crime of working life and a new course for smaller differences – because if we want, Norway can do better. I refer to the suggestions in the setting that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1079	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1086	The Labour Party writes in its comments that they want Nav to be able to operate a larger part of the labour market measures themselves. It says: ‘Detail management must then be replaced by local freedom and trust in using the most effective means.’ This is completely in line with what we in the Right believe, but when it comes to the piece, I wonder if the Workers' Party really means this. Is that just talk? Because it's not much about local freedom and less detail management when the Workers' Party wants government guidelines on what Nav himself should be able to do under his own control. The Working Party does not trust Nav locally when they do not want to be involved in a redeployment of up to 100 million. kr, which will just give Nav the opportunity to do more under his own direction, and offer more tailors' meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1096	We also believed that in the last period — and for a long time — there is reason to reduce detail management and ensure that Nav is able to help people in the way that works best. The only re-disposal that we are going to go against is the redisposal that you are proposing that this be done from permanent work. If there is someone we want to keep in the budget, it is those who are among the most weak in the labour market. We are proposing to strengthen permanent work with a total of 300 posts in this year's budget. And the fact that, in a difficult situation for the country, one will be entitled to take the money from some of the perhaps the weakest in society -- those who will never be part of the ordinary working life, for example. those that the representative and I have jointly enjoyed visiting Asker – because the government does not grant enough in other places, so we are not in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1101	There is also a cross-political consensus that we must strive for effective measures to re-enter the labour market or in a training course. The government has also extended access to additional training or also to start its own business while going on day-to-day pay. However, I welcome the Workers' Party's proposal that young people under the age of 30 should be given the opportunity to take part in training that provides work-related skills. Does the Labour Party feel that this is right with other young people under 30 years of age? Is it true that someone should receive free education, while other young people under the age of 30 have to take up a student loan to pay for their education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1106	It is a proposal to give Nav local freedom of action, for which the representative was also in his previous post. One of the main reasons why people are out of work, and that someone is going to do this out of work, is that they don't have their formal competence in order. When we look at some of the dropouts – and there are more and more outside the labour market under this government – and know that documented knowledge is something they need, we will give it the flexibility to Nav to be able to use it as a tool. It is a good investment to ensure that people do not permanently get into a social security situation but can get into a professional situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1118	The working party was known as the main architect of the pension reform. The model for which the Workers' Party stood in favour has been followed, and we have now had it for several years. Unfortunately, we see that several of the country's pensioners have experienced a negative trend in purchasing power. This shows that the Progress Party was right when, as the only party, we were against the famous reform. We also see that in recent years the Workers' Party has allocated less money to the country's pensioners, among others. that the Workers' Party wants to punish married and cohabiting pensioners even more and that they have opposed the government's strengthening of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners. So my specific question to the Workers' Party relates to what concrete changes the Workers' Party will make in the pension reform, so that its pensioners can have the same purchasing power development as the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1125	Firstly, if the representative looks at the budget, he will see that we have not proposed any change to the abbreviation that all parties agree on when dealing with today's budget. That's the one. Secondly, it's funny to listen to Wiborg, who in a way represents a government that says they're behind the pension reform. All parties support the pension reform. But Wiborg doesn't. He's flying around and talking – making strategic notes on how to undermine the other parties on the basis of the pension reform, so he doesn't get to any of the world's stuff. What we have focused on, both in the last year's budget and in the year's budget, is strengthening the very weakest pensioners – the minimum pensioners and the lone minimum pensioners. We have focused on that and suggested strengthening it. I record that there is agreement in Stortinget after the negotiations. So it was not the proposals of the Progress Party to strengthen them. It was the center parties that forced the Advance Party to help strengthen the retired.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1132	I recorded that I did not get an answer to my specific question. The working party tries to create the impression that the situation would have been different if the Workers' Party had been in government. So I just have to repeat my question: what concrete changes to the pension reform does the Workers' Party want to implement in addition to punishing married and cohabiting pensioners more than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1137	We have not proposed any changes to the pension reform. We are behind the pension reform. But what we want to do is do something about the violations that the government and the Progress Party have done in the context of the pension reform, that they have allowed themselves the habit of stopping presenting the social security settlement as their own case to the Stortinget. It is not a result of the pension reform, but a result of the government’s choice — that in this way they keep pensioners and other social security fools away from the reality of the life situation of over one million people in Norway. That is why we are now proposing that the respect it entails to deal with the social security settlement in the Storting should be reintroduced. I record that the representative of Wiborg is voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1142	Then I must remind the representative Dag Terje Andersen that the Stortinget on Monday this week dealt with exactly what Andersen wants. Then we had a broad debate in this room about the income development of the country's pensioners. It became clear that if there had not been more of the grips of the Progress Party and the government along with our cooperation parties, the country's pensioners would have had it even worse, a worse purchasing power development than they actually have. I am pleased that the Workers' Party here today is honest that the Workers' Party does not want to make a single change in the pension reform. I think it's sad, especially when we know the History of the Workers' Party – that they, for example. fought with beaks and claws against the great victory of the Advance Party to reduce the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners. Then is my last question: is the Workers Party going to continue the fight against married and cohabiting pensioners getting reduced their curtailment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1149	I answered that in my first answer: look at the budget. That's the answer. All lots in Stortinget have the same level of curtailment. We'd like to discuss the pension reform, but then we're going to do it in a neat way, and not on a slogan plan, for which the representative Wiborg doesn't even have cover in his party or in the government of his party. We like to discuss the experience of the pension reform with the State Council, because when I say we're going to be on the pension agreement, it's also about looking at how the pension agreement develops. To the extent that we're going to change it, we're going to do it together. This applies, for example: the adjustment of the pension. When we are as loyal to the pension settlement as we are – it is also the Progress Party, except for Wiborg, who talks about something completely different in the Stortinget – we are provoked when the government allows itself to cut out that the matter is to be dealt with as its own matter in the Stortinget every single year. So it's not to respect the pensioners. I see that the representative Wiborg supports that we should not have that respect. There we disagree with the government. We believe that there is a breach of the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1154	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1159	Like the chairman of the committee, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation in this budgetary process. We all depend on all parties being constructive and flexible in such processes, and perhaps especially this year when the work became more concentrated at the end than it usually is. I would also like to address several issues and priorities in the budget that the Progress Party believes are important this year. At the same time, it's good to remember that we in this room today don't have time to go through all the good things in the budget, but I'm going to get into several important areas. The budget for 2017 needs to be seen primarily in the light of the labour market and the general economy situation. Much is going well in Norway, but again there are also many challenges we have. It's easy to see yourself a little blind on individual numbers, individual posts. I think it's important to remember that everything we do is about individuals. It's about people who may have lost their jobs. It's about how we can give decent old age to those who built the country, to the country's pensioners. It might be about helping people who have some challenges, helping them a little extra so that they can live a good and normal life. As you know, the unemployment rate has increased in the south and west as a result of the most severe oil price drop of 30 years. At the same time, fortunately, the situation is not black-and-white. In 14 of the country's counties, unemployment has fallen in the last year, and it is important to avoid, the places where unemployment has increased and is too high, that it does not snap as it did when the Workers' Party ran in the 1990s. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that comes with targeted measures to create activity and jobs in the regions and industries that are hardest hit by the oil price drop. Then it is important that we also ensure that we have labour market measures that are targeted at those who need and need help. However, labour market measures are not an objective in themselves, and therefore the government has a wide range of instruments to help people get into work. However, we are also using more labour market measures, so we are now increasing by over 1,000 more action places than what was in the 2016 budget. We also ensure that more young people get to work and activity more quickly, and we focus heavily on youth and youth unemployment. We had a debate earlier in December in this Chamber, and fortunately the majority of the parties were aware that youth unemployment is a priority one to get done with. We make sure to have a more targeted youth effort, a less bureaucratic youth effort. We aim it towards where the problem is greatest, and therefore start in the South and Western countries. It must be allowed to say that with the Progress Party and the Right in the government, unemployment has been managed in a responsible and predictable way. We're not in the target, but we're thinking about both short-term measures and long-term measures. We assume that it is not this hall that creates jobs. The workplaces are created out there, and then we don't have to think that just we're going to adopt something, it's going to be jobs. The Progress Party does not believe that we can adopt a job, but we can facilitate job creation. It is about reducing red tape, reducing taxes, making it easier and safer for Norwegian companies to invest, so that they can secure existing jobs and not least bet on creating new jobs. But this year's budget is also a good budget for its pensioners in many areas. I was in the line shift earlier today on the challenge of the pension settlement, but fortunately we have a government working in the field by field to strengthen the pensioners' economy. I can briefly take the tax area. The Ministry of Finance has calculated the tax relief for the country's pensioners for the 2017 budget of approximately 390 million. kr, e.g. by reducing the tax rate from 25 pst. To 24 pst., we reduce marginal taxes, gives relief in property taxes. I can also continue with the famous abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners, who were originally 25 p.m., and who in their time were negotiated down to 15 p.m., to large and strong protests from the Workers' Party. But the Progress Party is not satisfied with a reduction of 15 pst. That is why, with effect from 1 September, we were further reduced to 10 p.m. in the last year's budget, which means that with the Advance Party in government, married and cohabiting pensioners receive 8 000 to 9 000 kroner more per year. I think it is especially that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party fought with beaks and claws against it. But the Progress Party has also always had a strong commitment to the minimum pensioners, and perhaps especially to the lone minimum pensioners, who are often the ones who have the tough economics. That is why I am pleased that the Advance Party and the Government, together with our good partners in the Christian People's Party and the Left, ended up with a further increase of NOK 4000 for the lone minimum pensioners. We did it last year, and we're doing it this year as well. It's important, and I'm glad we're getting it in place today. There has also been a lot of focus on this, and the Committee has received more concerns about the pay cuts received by users of Nav, which they are now going to receive electronically. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has a crystal clear comment on this issue, and that the Council of State has been clear both in letters to the Committee and in the media that those who are unable to obtain pay cuts via data, etc., should be able to obtain this information by other means. It is an important area for the Committee to ensure that they are followed up, because it must of course be so that everyone should know at all times what they are getting paid, how much they have paid in taxes. This is an area that is important for the Committee to follow up, but I am sure, with the clear signals from the Council of State that it will. I was a little into several of the areas relating to the pensioners, where the government has delivered well. This is the last budget in the current period, and we see that there are several parties who are choosing to significantly increase the tax burden on their businesses, thus helping to jeopardize many jobs, but also the country's pensioners can expect a significant increase in taxation with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. One is the tax increases we may adopt here, but we also see around the country several red-green politicians who now yearn to introduce and increase property taxes, which also hit the country's pensioners hard. I am therefore pleased that the Progress Party will fight it. I would also like to draw up an allocation that I am proud of, and which is important, and that is that we are now extending the right to interpret and accompany help for deaf blind people. There has been an important focus area for which the Progress Party had a strong involvement in the opposition. I'm glad that we're making it possible for all deaf blind people who want to participate in normal leisure activities in the same way as others, now to have more opportunity to do so, and that the government will once again deliver – in this important area. Finally, I would like to thank our partners. We show that together we are able to secure jobs. Unemployment falls into 14 of the country's counties. We have targeted measures. We are now seeing significant growth in the number of start-ups in enterprises. We see that several companies say that government's investment in a broad spectrum, whether it's education, whether it's transport, when we build roads and railways, are measures that help to strengthen the country's jobs. It is the most important thing for this government: to facilitate the creation of new jobs, but also to maintain the jobs we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1189	I noticed the representative Wiborg's tribute to the old age pensioners – the people who built the country. He could possibly add, "and we who sold it." He made a big point of tax cuts and increasing pensions. 5 B.C.E. kr was spent on it last year. New 390 million. kr is now coming this year. But it's probably not to get away from the fact that it's gone to the most retired people, and that the boast that the minimum pensioners have received – it's not thanks to the Progress Party. The party of progress in government has not proposed it either this year or last year. But the Pensioners Association has made the Committee aware that there is a group, the lone pensioners with small supplementary pensions, who have not received one ear. What does the Progress Party have to say to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1194	Firstly, I completely disagree with the fact description of the representative when she claims that we have not contributed to those of the country's pensioners who have the least. She even claimed that the strengths we have done for the country's pensioners have gone to those who have the most. I totally disagree that there are lonely minimum pensioners who have the most. On the contrary, this is the group of pensioners that have the least. I am therefore pleased that we now for the second consecutive year together with our cooperation parties have managed to make an extraordinary promise for that group. Yes, the Progress Party wants to continue to strengthen the economy of pensioners. It's about having a fundamentally different view of what retirement is than what the Workers' Party has. The Workers' Party sees retirement as something that is given by the State because the politicians are kind. The Progress Party believes that pensions are something you have earned – something you have paid for over a long life. Then politicians should not be able to scold and choose with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1202	I'm so old that I know where the pensions come from. I'm starting to approach that age, so I've made sure I know that. The representative, Wiborg, answers something quite different from what I asked for. I didn't say that lone minimum pensioners have the most, because that's completely wrong. I said it wasn't the Progress Party that was thinking about them. It was thanks to the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that it became a coin to them too. So the representative says that he does not agree with my situation description that the tax cuts and increased pensions have gone to those who have the most. I have a letter on my desk from the Council of State showing that this is the case. However, to continue to dwell on those who have the least: there are also those with real minimum benefits, other than old-age pensioners. Then my question to the Progress Party is: Do they have something good to wait for from the Progress Party, or will the Progress Party just continue to cut the social benefits for them, for example. Lonely Caregivers and Disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1213	If the Progress Party had gained an impact on its primary view of pensions, all the country's pensioners would have felt better. Because the Workers' Party, which is the main architect behind the pension reform, has provided underregulation of 0.75 p.m., this meant that all pensioners in the country are reduced in purchasing power compared to the rest of society. The progress party was known to disagree with it, but we understand that during the current ageing period, there is no majority to make adjustments to it. Then we'll see if it's in the future. But I think it's a pity that the Workers' Party wants to pursue a policy where the country's pensioners will not be allowed to participate in the same development as the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1218	We are now discussing the budget of the Labour and Social Committee – the most important security budget for people. But the uncertainty creeps in, and the differences between people are increasing. Many experience this, including in the Advancement Party. It's a result of what's happening in the world of work. It's a result of what happens to tax policy. It's a result of what happens to the social benefits that we're going to adopt here, where more benefits aren't even price adjusted. It is a misguided policy we are facing – a policy that creates greater differences. The main difference is created in working life, and my question is: Does the representative see the weakness of the EEA Agreement, which means the freest possible immigration of workers from countries with high unemployment and poor working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1225	Yes. Both I and the Progress Party see challenges with the EEA Agreement. That is why the Progress Party has said that we want parts of the EEA Agreement to be renegotiated and amended. However, unlike the Centre Party, the Progress Party is also aware that unilateral termination of the EEA Agreement before any alternative is in place is not at all sound. In general, the EEA Agreement has worked reasonably well for Norway, although there are several weaknesses on which the representative Lundtigen and the undersigned fully agree. I also heard, in a previous reply, that the representative Lundtigen is concerned about increasing differences in Norway. It is a concern shared by the Progress Party, although, fortunately, Norway has very small differences, and we should be pleased about that. However, much of the reason for the increased disparities now is that, over several years, Norway has had an uncontrolled immigration policy, but fortunately, we now have a government that addresses that problem and limits immigration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1230	The representative, Wiborg, said in his reply to the representative, Christoffersen, that the pension is processed dishes with which politicians are not to bald and choose. At the same time, I wonder why the representative Wiborg is so pleased that we politicians now need to increase the minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1235	The Progress Party has always been clear that we believe that the minimum pensions are too low. We want to fight poverty in Norway, and we see that several lone minimum pensioners have too poor income. Then we think it's quite right and fair to increase it something. We could also want to increase it more, but we had to see what we have the opportunity to do in the individual budgets. Now, together with the Left, for two years in a row, we've increased the pension for lone minimum pensioners by $4,000, and I'm proud of that. But what I meant was not to be able to choose with the country’s pensions, including: on the famed sub-regulation of 0,75 pst. It is important that the Progress Party opposes the punishment and reduction of its earned pension rights, only because it randomly chooses to live in a married or cohabiting life. Then I am happy that we have been able to do so, including: together with Sveinung Rotevatn and Left, to reduce the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1242	This line from me is also about paper. The progress party has now been on the pulpit and said that these pensioners, as you can see, I want to talk a little bit for, who want to get their pay specified on paper, are to be cared for by other arrangements, which we shall hear about. But yet these pensioners keep calling us, and they're insecure. I like to give clear messages, I like to get clear messages, and this is really about peanuts, so my question to the representative of the Progress Party is: Can't we, this afternoon, when we're going to vote on this, arrange these peanuts and give clear notice to the pensioners that they're still going to get paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1247	First of all, there are actually things that are more important than the payroll itself, and it's all about, among other things. about making sure you get paid and what you get into the account. But, as I was in my main post, the Progress Party fully agrees that it is of course important that the country's pensioners and other users of Nav know what they get paid out. They're going to know what they paid in taxes, and they're going to get it in a transparent way. That is why today we have a very clear majority comment that states that those who are unable to use data etc. in order to obtain this information, to be able to obtain the information by other means. The Council of State has been exemplary in this regard, and the committee is today. So I'm assuming this isn't a future problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1257	Unfortunately, the debate today is still marked by high unemployment, that it is the focus, and therefore I am pleased that the budget that is being adopted will have a major stake in combating unemployment and ensuring that new jobs are created. For the Christian People's Party, we were pleased that the government put up an arrangement where there was an action package of 4 billion. D to the south and west, which are, of course, the areas which have been particularly affected. But it was said earlier in the debate that it was not a topic to reinforce that package – I can cancel it. True, it may not have been the theme that got the most attention in the harvest, but I will promise that both from the Christian People's Party and also from the Left was the action we were concerned with that was both discussed and ended up in the conciliation. For example, I could mention that we got more places of study, got an increase in apprenticeship grants of NOK 2 500 – once again, I would say, it stood still almost all the time before, now it's increased many times during this period – one received funds for the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, which is a pilot testing facility to contribute to conversion, and is located in Grimstad, we got another seed fund, which hopefully will trigger new investments, create new jobs, etc. In addition, I would like to stress from the Christian People's Party that what's also a challenge of high unemployment is that those who have been away from work for a long time get an even longer way back because it's harder to get in. It is therefore important that the level of intervention is high and that a strong focus is also placed on how one can contribute to the inclusion of people with disabilities, disabilities and other people who are far from working life. The budgetary agreement also took on board the need for measures to combat poverty and inequalities. Of course, work and integration are the key keywords to succeed in dealing with permanent poverty, but early efforts are also a key. That's why I'm very pleased that we got an average of over 400 million. kr extra to several kindergarten teachers, to ensure quality in kindergartens. We got 460 million. kr to more teachers for the youngest students. During this ageing period, from 2013, we've increased the number of teachers in the first, second, third and fourth classes by 1700. I am sure that will contribute to a stronger effort early and also reduced non-responses later and fewer people who end up on the social budgets. We also have targeted measures, whether for holidays for everyone, the Barnas Station, free or graduated kindergartens, which one knows will be important for the low-income families. I would also like to highlight a record increase in the one-off benefit that is given to those who become parents but who do not have a work relationship. It's increasing by 25 pst. in the budget, and will then be at NOK 61 000 for 2017. It's important for those who don't have the connection we wish they had. I will also mention the effort to combat violence and abuse against children. In the budget debate earlier today, in the field of justice, we discussed it widely, and it is also an important topic to ensure a safe growth and for an inclusive society. But in addition to the fate and challenging lives of individuals, we also know that it has great social costs, so that effort is also important in this image. I would also like to point out that one gets two new work-life crime centres. For the Christian People's Party, the fight against labour-life-criminalism – I also tend to add to the fight against trafficking in human beings – has been important. Now two new ones are being created: we have a total of seven centres in Norway, as well as a good action plan to combat crime at work, and the police also have their own team to look specifically at what is bordering on trafficking in human beings. There are important measures to ensure a serious working life and to combat the exploitation that unfortunately some people see in some cases. Finally, I would also like to highlight what has already become a repetition of the debate, namely that we have achieved a positive impact in order to increase the rate of disposable minimum pensioners by NOK 4000. It is an important measure that we got through for the current year, and that we also get through for the next year. That means that a group of people who have little at least get a little bit extra. So for the Christian People's Party, we believe that there are many important measures – not just to combat unemployment and create new jobs, but also some important measures that go beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1282	The certainty that you can support your family and those you love most, and give them the basic security, is the most important thing for most of us. This security is compromised and threatened when more people become unemployed, and when you are not sure if you get paid next month. Temporary employment shall be an exception and supplement in the labour market. The number of jobs created in Norway is record low and two out of three are created in the public sector. In addition, a large proportion of those created are temporary. Does the Christian People’s Party and the representative of Ropstad feel that the security of families is being strengthened or weakened if their mother or father has to go involuntarily on a permanent basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1287	Thank you for a very important question. No, I fully agree with the premises of the representative. Of course, it is temporary uncertainty. It's e.g. more difficult to obtain if a person wishes to obtain a dwelling, etc. But at the same time, it is safer to have a temporary job to go to even if there is no job to go to. Unfortunately, as the representative is also well-known, there is a difficult economic situation in Norway, which unfortunately has not been created so many jobs. That's why I think the most important thing we politicians can do to create greater security is to create more jobs, and that we go along with measures that in this case are, hopefully, short-term measures that can be reduced in as little time as possible because the situation has improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1292	The government pushed disabled and weak groups into the arguments for softening the work environment law or for making working life more short-sighted and easier to quit. These groups also have the same right and equal need for permanent and secure employment in order to seize the opportunities in their lives. Now the experience figures after years of temporary employment show that there will be no more jobs, there will be only more temporary jobs, and no more permanent jobs. If this development continues, does the Christian People's Party and the representative want to intervene and adjust so that we do not get an even larger group that is involuntaryly temporary instead of getting permanent employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1297	As the representative is probably familiar with, the changes in the Working Environment Act on temporary employment were not my primary proposal. I would like to see an even narrower regulation, but at the same time there are a lot of regulations in access to new, temporary employment, which makes one, for example. will avoid series recruitment. So I also think, because I also read the statistics that just came out, that one should be a little bit careful to draw too blatant conclusions from it, given the labour market that after all is. But I have been very clear that if it does not work, if there are fixed jobs that are temporary instead of more jobs coming out of the law change in total, I think it is wrong, and then you have to go back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1302	We are experiencing increasing differences between people. We'll see that when we're out, and we'll see that in the statistics. The main thing is increasing differences in income. There are hundreds of applicants for a common, common, important job, and it shows what we're up in. The Christian People's Party has had several good changes in the budget, with one-off support for birth, lone minimum pensioners and other measures, which we in the Center Party appreciate and are happy about. But my question is, doesn't there need to be a system change now, a change of pace? The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have always been too jealous of society. Don't you need a system change, a change of pace, to reduce the differences among people? What will the Christian People's Party propose in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1307	Well, I totally agree, and I was going to say that the most important change of pace would be to get a new government with even greater centre of gravity and preferably with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party of that government. But in the case of concrete measures, I am sure, as I was in my post, that the most important thing is to create more jobs and to facilitate the entry into the labour market of those who are most remote from the workplace. Unfortunately, it is – as was also mentioned here instead – e.g. Unfortunately, the proportion of people with disabilities in work has not increased. So if I'm going to mention one measure, I think it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1312	My line is about paper again. The government has now explained during the morning that an alternative to caring for pensioners who do not have an iPad or have a PC by hand to read the new payroll payments is that they can call a phone. Now there are many of the pensioners calling, who say they can't see the numerical keyboard on the phone they are going to call. They have problems with hearing, very many of them, so they can't hear the messages given. So then my question here is to the Christian People's Party: can the Christian People's Party imagine, during the afternoon when we're going to give a clear answer, to give a clear answer to the pensioners, to participate in a quick fix and to vote on this peanut proposal SV has submitted to them about continuing to give them a paper version?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1317	I am pleased with the commitment that the representative shows to this group. At the same time, I think what is in the setting is good. The fact that someone finds alternatives that allow those who need it or want it to receive information in a different way. Now I just have to admit that I have not read the total well enough, but I have at least heard that the sum or the cost can come up to 30 million. kr. That's what I think is money one in any case should be careful to use to send out paper. The most important thing is that a person is informed when changes occur, that one does not necessarily get it into the post every month, but that one is at least informed if a change occurs, and for example. every year. If that's how the government is willing to secure them like that. registering that they still want to keep it on paper, I think it is a good measure. At the same time, however, one must also offset the costs, and whether one could possibly use them to raise the pension or other types of action that will also benefit these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1322	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1327	A lot of people work hard to get a job, a lot of people work temporarily, and a lot of people work in employment agencies where they have contracts called ‘fixed employment without pay between jobs’, and are actually callers who have no security of income. This gives us uncertainty. This situation is combined with the fact that very many jobs in Norway today are based on private consumption where individuals have borrowed what they use. The indebtedness of people is increasing a lot. As uncertainty becomes more pronounced, that situation will change, and one will be more cautious about borrowing money. As a result, a number of jobs are going to be threatened. We are in a difficult situation and must be predictable. Business policy will then become central. We have to have a business policy that has a transition from the black carbon to the green carbon. We need a policy towards renewable industries, renewable natural resources. But it requires predictability in those industries, so that we can build up a capacity and a profitability so that it can replace some of the jobs that will be lost. This is the backbone of today's debate. The core of labour and social policy is security, income security, social security, social benefits when they are needed. It is therefore quite strong to learn that the government has not given priority to price-setting a number of benefits that those who need it most should have: single parents, basic and auxiliary benefits, aids. The centre party has a priority of 150 million. NOK to this. Not so many people are talking about it, but it is absolutely necessary that these benefits also keep up with developments. However, the key to safety is a well-organised working life, a strong professional organisation and a legislative and regulatory framework that is in line with what is needed to ensure fair competition between enterprises, and the fact that Norwegian wage and working conditions apply to all working in Norway, with the Norwegian high cost level. That's where we're getting more and more on the back. As mentioned earlier, labour migration is high, and that is the main cause of the economic difference between people. The centre party is in favour of labour immigration, but we are in favour of regulated labour immigration, not free labour immigration. We are for those who come to Norway from outside the Nordic region to have a job in Norway, a permanent employment in Norway before coming here. What happens is that conditions in the labour market are becoming increasingly demanding. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has examined, but has not yet debated, more reports on the situation regarding social dumping, work crime and other issues. There is a development that needs to be countered. The essential part of this counter-work is that we get a legislative and regulatory framework that is in line with what is required, but it is difficult to achieve because the EEA Agreement imposes strict limits on what instruments we can use. Norway is on the wrong course in terms of the impact of the EEA Agreement, and more and more of the usual, good professionals in the labour market are experiencing it. What we're doing in this setting is trying to patch up the problems. The centre party is involved, and we are committed to increasing labour market measures: 1000 new places with wage subsidies, 800 new places with permanent work for young people, so that they automatically get such a VTA position on completion of secondary education. We are betting on the Labour Inspectorate and have a separate package of 155 million. kr. We are focusing on increased skills, but perhaps the most important thing that the Labour Inspectorate and associated departments need is a clearer regulation. It will be an important part of the debate of the Control and Constitutional Committee when it comes in the new year. Finally, I am also responsible for the military pensions. Veterinary association SIOPS has pointed out that the arrangements applicable to those who are currently veterans through foreign residence are too poor. I am very pleased that it is a unanimous committee that asks the government to take care of it. The way in which and under which department you do it becomes the government's choice, but it's important that something is done in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1350	The central party considers that the consequences of free labour migration within the EEA area are that those groups in Norway with the weakest labour relations are adversely affected. The centre party also believes that labour migration is the main reason why differences between people are increasing. The question is: Is it in the opinion of the Centre Party that the termination of the EEA Agreement will reduce the differences between people and what is the alternative to the EEA Agreement that will not reduce the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1355	There is a great deal of awareness among the Norwegian people today about the impact of the EEA agreement on employment and in terms of red tape in all areas of society. It is essential that this work be taken into account as quickly as possible, to replace the EEA Agreement with trade agreements with the different EU countries, so that we can have regulated relations, while at the same time having good and secure trade relations with the different countries. The EU countries need Norway’s natural resources, and Norway is taking advantage in a number of areas. We had a free trade agreement earlier, and it has to be reviewed. This is a debate that is going on in many European countries. The centre party wants Norway to be a different country, but another country that is not seaworthy is our foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1360	One of the key areas of government activity is the fight against poverty. History shows that children’s poverty must be combated, and adults must feel better, for example. through more people coming to work and getting a living income. The centre party has been clear that they want to reduce the differences between people. Does this mean that the Central Party is behind the targeted efforts of the government to combat poverty, or does one have a different strategy? So what does it look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1365	We are for all measures that reduce poverty. We're for system changes that take evil at the root, and we're for actions that can patch up and do something better. If the government comes up with measures that make the adults feel better, we're going to be a follower of it. We therefore have a number of proposals on this, including: in the case of the disembarkation system. There we say that the disability benefit and the need-tested child supplement must not be so strictly practiced that in some cases it cannot amount to more than what the disabled person received in a poorly paid job before, just to ensure what the questioner here asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1370	In the past, the Centre Party was relatively clear that there should be a link between rights and obligations. A year and a half ago, we dealt with several changes, including: in the Working Environment Act and in several other laws. The majority then chose to adopt an activity obligation for beneficiaries of social assistance, and the Central Party was part of that majority. But I see, unfortunately, that the Central Party has turned around and is not now in favour of the obligation of activity of young social welfare recipients under 30 years of age, and that they have rather taken the same line as the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, that one should have the right to an activity. At the same time, this should be an optional right of activity. What's the reason why the Center Party thinks we shouldn't make demands on young social welfare recipients?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1378	This is true of the weakest among us. These are those who have no income other than from social assistance. I can assure the asker that getting social assistance is not easy. Those people are in a very demanding situation. The centre party is a human party. We want to help those people forward, we don't want to punish those people further. The centre party is a strong supporter of having obligations relating to the rights. We are very much in favour of having an activity obligation, and for society to have a right to present it, so that it can help people. The centre party is not kicking downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1385	Some of us think that's exactly what the Center Party is doing. I agree with the representative Lundtägen that we are talking here about a group of people who are in a very demanding situation in life, but I disagree with the Center Party medicine, that the solution is just to give them money and let them sail their own sea. Both I and the Progress Party believe that the best way we can help these people, who are in a difficult situation, is to make demands on them – treat them with respect and make the same demands on them as on everyone else in society, to be involved and contribute. We also know that passivity helps people to a large extent never get out of the famous safety net, and thus they can never get up and stand on their own feet. But the representative Lundtigen did not answer my question: What is the reason why the Central Party has now turned around and believes that young people should be able to receive money without making demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1396	The centre party has not turned around, we have stood for the same position and the same positions all along. I fully agree that the best way is to make demands, to treat people with respect, and that one should out of passivity. But I know for many of those people this is about, what their life situation is, what challenges they have with drugs and psychiatry. So I have respect for someone who has to come forward wisely. It's not just useful to kick down, it's not just useful to demand and demand, it's also necessary to assist, and it's the line of the Center Party. If someone is in charge of the line of work, it's the Center Party's voters around the country. I can assure the representative of Wiborg of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1403	The representative Lundtigen is busy by the EEA and spent much of his main post talking about the consequences of the free movement of labour. I would like to drill a little bit more into what is the central party's view and proposals for alternatives here, because the representative Lundtegen said it so that iodine, one must definitely come to Norway and work, but then one must have a job. Today it is such that one can come to Norway and search for a job, and if one does not get it, neither does one have a self-proclaimed right to stay here. But is it the case that the Central Party believes that as long as one has got a job in Norway, it is okay – then one should be able to have the free flow of Swedish, Danish, Polish and German workers here – or are there several demands the Senterpartiet wants to make that it would be possible to come to Norway as an immigrant? Is it enough to have a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1408	In the case of labour immigration, as I said in my post, we must distinguish between the Nordic countries and countries outside the Nordic countries. The centre party has been a hot follower of – and is a hot follower of – the Nordic passport freedom and the free movement of people within Nordic countries also in working situations. It makes sense, and it hasn't created any problems. On the contrary, there has been a great advantage because there have been fairly similar situations in those countries. The problem arises when there is a great deal of misery in countries where you have the freedom to come to Norway. I said having a job before you get here is one of the most important requirements. It is also associated with the dwelling. What necessary things must be clarified before one comes, there's a discussion about in the Center Party now. It is very central that a person gets ahead, because when one today comes from an Eastern European country and does not get a job, one can be here for as long as one will – because it is a free right of establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1415	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1421	It has been a turbulent budget house on Stortinget. There is no problem in itself. It is good that the budget is discussed, debated, negotiated and passed where it is to be done – in the national Parliament. For the left, we're happy with what was finally the final result, and I'm happy to be part of a multiple of the Stortinget that gets a government budget. But it is clear that it is not lucky for the procedure here in the house that so many temptations have been pushed on. I understand that there may have created challenges for many others of the parties here, and it's just to regret it. The debate on the State budget has, at least in the public domain, been little about what is the subject of this committee. I think that illustrates two things. It illustrates that, on the civil side, there is quite a consensus on the direction of employment and social policy. That's good. I also think it illustrates that there is not so much disagreement with the rest of the opposition here at Stortinget. In any case, when the government proposes a budget that uses a lot of money, what I'm going to say, and it uses the Storting to be happy about. There are some main challenges in our field. Of course, the largest is unemployment, which is still too high in parts of the country. And then you get an emphasis that it applies to parts of the country. I think that when I made choices in 2013 and was elected for Sogn and Fjordane, it was a pity that Sogn and Fjordane had not been part of the oil adventure, and that it was so much more exciting that happened in the oil industry and in our neighboring countries. It must be a pity, but the reality today is that Sogn and Fjordane are in a special position in the West – and also in the country – with the second lowest unemployment rate and with ok growth both in business start-ups and in the population. So this oil dependency is a sword with two eggs. The budget being presented is reasonably expansive. A lot of money is spent, and the reasons given by the government include: anti-unemployment, increasing areas of action, etc., and we hope and believe that it will produce positive results. Then there's another main challenge for our non-new, non-new, non-disappearing work, and that's the strength of the welfare state that we're all happy to be solid. Employment in this country has been falling completely since 2009. It's a challenge because it means there's fewer people working, who are involved and pay for the split layer we're all part of. So I'd say it's a little alarming, at least in the long term, that the main criticism from the red-green opposition here today is not about the fact that arrangements are too noisy, or that a user too much money. The main criticism is that it's too tight, and that one cuts too much. I think that in the future we will have budget discussions that are considerably more demanding than this, when we meet older people and at the same time fall in oil revenue. We have a working life that's changing. The left is very positive to both the EEA Agreement, Schengen cooperation and labour immigration. It's a force for Norway. At the same time, we should also be honest about the fact that in recent years it has been a development in the Norwegian labour market where one has seen a larger element of crime, employers exploiting workers who are in a weak situation. I am pleased that we have had an impact on measures in the budget agreement that are helping to counter this trend, including in the area of drugrelated crime. the establishment of a number of labour centres. It's very important, it's the Left's happy, but this is a challenge that's going to last, and that we have to deal with even stronger tools. Then there's another trend in the labour market that we're going to be very conscious of, and it's the technology shift that's going on, the sharing economy that's emerging, and what I think is quite clear, that there's going to be more in Norway in the future who's working independently – as self-employed. It's a lot more flexible everyday, but it also means that we have to be able to seal the hole in the security network for that group, which does not have the same welfare rights as other employees. The left has proposed strengthening the sick pay scheme for this group, providing better opportunities for private pension savings, minimum deductions from the tax haven, etc. I hope that we can eventually get more parties into it, so that the welfare state also helps them, who also need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1445	It might not sound like that on the dialect of Rotevatn and me, but we actually come from the same part of the country. We both come from the North West. The high unemployment rate in the West is serious. It affects individuals and families, and it affects local communities and the big community. Fortunately, there is no high unemployment in Rotevatn's home state, Sogn and Fjordane, but in my home state, Møre and Romsdal, we now have the highest unemployment rate in ten years. In Kristiansund, the total time off is 5.1 pst. It is very serious and requires political action. Unfortunately, the budget agreement did not provide the necessary reinforcement of the effort to combat unemployment, but does it mean that the representative Rotevatn and Left are satisfied with the effort to combat the record unemployment rate in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1452	If you read the Left's alternative government budget, you'll see that the answer to that is no, because we put in more measures that we think would strengthen us in the job that is about bringing down unemployment. But at the same time, I think the government provided a pretty good starting point for that job, and that we also have a budget agreement that meets that challenge in a good way. I think the most important thing now is to learn a master lesson from what we've seen. The main lesson is that if a part of the country and a country so highly rely on the price of one commodity on the international market, yes, then it is vulnerable. This is what the Left has been talking about for many years, that we need more legs to stand on in the Norwegian economy. Then it's not useful to go back and think that all the jobs that were once should come back. A rather new one, and an unusually poor way to create new jobs, is to increase the taxes on Norwegian business by 10 billion. kr, as proposed by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1461	The representative Rotevatn only seems to be satisfied with the government's efforts to combat unemployment in the West and refers to proposals in his own alternative government budget. It would have been interesting to hear what kind of action the Left did not get through in the budget negotiations, for which Rotevatern believes would have a positive impact on combating unemployment in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1466	Among the measures we propose is to strengthen Nav with what I think was 50 million. kr, targeted against the follow-up of long-term unemployed in the South West. It is, of course, a particular challenge for those who are now moving towards the end of their daily allowance period, and who are then, in fact, left to social welfare, the last chance of the welfare state, and who need strong follow-up to get into work. Furthermore, I believe it is important that a person be able to strengthen the payroll system in the future. I think we have to make changes to the redundancy scheme, so that we can clarify people faster. But I also want to say that we can't solve the challenges of unemployment only through the Nav and the social security system. They need to be resolved through an industrial policy that helps to create profitable businesses in Norway, that we conduct a trade policy where Norway is open to the outside world, and that we get our products sold – in short, at least part of it that one on the red-green side does not help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1473	The representative Rotevatn said that we will have more demanding budgets in the future, and I fully agree with that – because we cannot continue with the course that the government is following today. We here in Stortinget are privileged, because we're at a post where we can look further forward, further forward, and we see which clouds are coming. So we have to prepare, and the government is not preparing. As I said, loan-funded consumption is a serious bomb that cannot continue, and it has enormous consequences for the working life of Norway when it can no longer happen. But my question is about something else. State Council Hauglie said in an earlier debate that the main cause of increasing differences is immigration. To be honest – to be honest with a government council. Labour immigration is the most important, for most people, and it concerns people who come from countries with completely different conditions. Does the representative Rotevatn agree that immigration is the main cause of growing differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1482	The premise that Mr Lundtigen’s representative puts on his question is – unfortunately for him – totally wrong, because it is not the labour immigration that Lundtigen wants to live, which contributes to increasing differences, neither in Norway nor in other countries. On the contrary, labour immigration contributes to a strong economic downturn in Europe, and these are people who come to Norway, do necessary jobs and get paid – many of them paid well. But what is right is that much of the immigration that is not labour, which is asylum immigration, is part of and contributes to an increase in inequality – almost obviously – because here we talk a lot about people who come to Norway with low education, low competence, poor language skills. But neither do we accept asylum-seekers in Norway because we need more people in our labour market, and because they have excellent intentions for happiness there. We accept them because they are on the run – from war, from destruction, from oppression – and it is the Left for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1487	It's also the Center Party for. Taking refugees and people who run away from war is also the Central Party for us to do in Norway, and we're open and honest that it requires a lot of us. It requires a lot of us at all levels, and it's a scale that we have regulated. But labour immigration is unregulated, it comes from countries that have completely miserable relationships. It is quite logical that those living under such miserable conditions — where neither income nor social benefits nor opportunities exist, where one does not see hope for the future — turn to countries where there are greater opportunities. Does the representative Rotevatn not see that there are major challenges in Norwegian employment, in the direction of getting a spiral downwards for a number of professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1492	I think it went well with my main post that I see some challenges with labour immigration, among other things. because many of those who come here and do an important job — which is on the table, and which makes money — are still in a position to be outsourced in the labour market, for example. due to poor knowledge of justice in Norway and poor language skills, and may be exploited by unscrupulous employers. That's one of the reasons why I'm happy that we've put in place more centers for work crime. But I don't think it's a problem in itself that people who want a better life for themselves and their families, who want to feel more, work out their skills, have the ability to do it – simply because that's what I wanted myself to do. When we've needed people who come here and do a job for many years in Norway, there's not something we're supposed to complain about, even if the Center Party does. Then I'm glad Lundtigen says that the Center Party is on a line where we're going to accept refugees. I wish it could have materialized a little more in action in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1499	My line is about paper, which we have forever enough of here on the Stortinget. We hear that part of the government's explanation for resolving the case for the pensioners who don't control an iPad or the like is that they can go nav.no and apply for the alternative arrangements. Then they're equidistant, they say to me. I wonder, then, whether in the course of the afternoon, when we're going to decide this, we can agree to give, here and now, a clear answer and vote for the peanut-wake-fix proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, to give them a paper version?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1505	After today, I believe there is no doubt that the representative of Ingebrichtsen is too paper, but I have to admit that I have not yet fully understood what the peanut has to do with the matter. Similarly, I would say that the comment that the Left stands in the setting, together with the Right and the Advance Party, hopes and believes that I will solve that problem in a good way, because I believe that there is a clear enough signal that this is what the Storting wants us to get a solution to. I would also like to stress that the fact that Nav goes more and more away from paper, it's not something negative, it's something very positive. This leads to more effective treatment, leading to better help and better information for people. But it's absolutely true that there are some groups that can't benefit from it, and they're going to take care of it. I hope and believe that this setting will help, and I also believe that the Council of State has so definitely taken that signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1517	It's very good to have a good climate for debate and a good line change. This is a bit strange to start an article with, but I just have to say that in the state budget context, peanuts are peanuts – it's very small. It's tough times now. Unemployment has taken up approx. 130,000 people – people who no longer have a job to go to and a normal wage to live on. It's against elections, and there's a lot of big business representatives here in the hall, or sitting in their offices, who can have the same uncertainty: Do I have a salary, do I have a job for the autumn? When unemployment increases, the answer for some may be to suggest more tax cuts to the richest. It doesn't put hands to work. There's no new investment. We need to use the common money to create work, to create infrastructure in the business world, and to facilitate people who are out of work, so that they can get back to work. I guess that's our common goal. It's Nav that's going to give this help, and those who need this help need a hub that works, and that understands what business needs, and the jobs that are in the system out there in our country. In the case of young people, they are particularly vulnerable when unemployment increases. It's known to all of us. With thousands of unemployed young people, Nav needs stronger muscles to follow these young people, and today the waiting time is quite long to get this right for the young. SV is in favour of a youth guarantee to ensure education, activity and action to help young people get into work. The government has also invested in a youth effort, but it has been a little difficult to get what this means. I have come to realize that it has been very unclear what is in this, so we are missing out on more clarity about what the content is. As the chairman of the committee was in this place, an extended youth education right beyond the age of 25 has been proposed. When I'm not in Stortinget, I'm the County Council for Competence in Finnmark County, and I also think this is a good idea. Talk to the people in the system about it. But be aware, it'll cost you money. There are many who come to Norway to work – a lot of people who have something to do with us and who provide the labour we need. Unfortunately, many are exploited under miserable conditions. They're getting miserable, shameful pay. Unfortunately, many take advantage of them in rich Norway. That is why we must work hard on this exploitation and take it through our working life. Therefore, SV will strengthen the trade movement. We want to increase the trade union deduction. We want to put an end to what is now happening, as we see in business. The Labour Inspectorate is very important in that job, and then it is wrong to cut 10 million. In the work of supervision when labour immigration is so large and we know that there is a great deal of unhappiness and misery in the situation. So we need a new course here. We need to plant sense in those who want to remove the Nav offices for people in the world of work. It's very important out in the districts. We will strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and strengthen the labour force when we adopt a new, stronger labour-environment law. So I have to say a little bit about the paper version of the pensioners. Everyone is aware of SV's position here, and I am also a representative. We get a lot of phones about this. The old people are responding to this. They're not just upset, but they're pissed, too. So we have to listen to them. I mean with all due respect that this is simply peanuts in the big context. It's been talking about maybe it'll cost $30 million. kr. Maybe if everyone is going to have a paper version, but not everyone is there that they don't see the numbers on the phone, that they don't hear a phone message, or that they don't attract an iPad or a PC. We have to get a reasonable clarification of this, preferably this afternoon. It's peanuts. Finally, I have to mention the poor kids – the kids who are not just poor but who have involuntarily got sick parents without a job. It's totally wrong to cut the children's supplement for those who are in these categories. They have parents who are too sick to work. It's small, and it's raw. Then I have to say, where is solidarity with the weakest? At the end of the day, I would like to thank you for the good, short cooperation I have had and have with my friends and friends here. Then I will deal with the proposal SV has promoted in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1540	The representative Johnny Ingebrichtsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1547	Let me first say how incredibly pleasant it is to see the representative Ingebrichtsen again. When you see him here in the hall, it's almost as if you're hoping for some sort of socialist uprising in Finnmark, so that SV can get more representatives in and the Ingredient gets stuck. But to the question, we have understood that the representative responds to the digitisation and consequences it has for older beneficiaries of benefits. The majority of the parties have also responded to this, and we have also addressed this in the comments. The «Quick fix» proposal to which the Ingebrichtsen refers continuously costs 30 million. kr. The question is who in the labour and social budget is what he wants to take these 30 million. kr from?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1554	Here's part of what's our everyday life at Stortinget. [[shows paper sheets]] It is not even pro-mills – I have been to the dispatch office last night and looked at all the stacks that are there. We handle an iPad, we handle a PC, we're online. These are peanuts. We have to solve this. I understand that everyone agrees. Neither I nor SV are opposed to digitisation. It's here, and it's going to be even more extended, but there's someone who's so old that they don't deal with it. And the rich Norway is able to get a solution to that, and I think we can get a sensible decision when we're going to vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1559	I thank you for the answer to a question I did not ask. I asked where he was going to take the money from in the budget. But it's clear that as in so many other cases, SV hasn't thought so much about the containment, they're just thinking about the cozy expense. Recently, we have seen that the left side has tried rhetoric in differences in Norway. The first time was when there was an SSB report showing that the differences had increased. Then SV and the Workers' Party claimed that it was the government's fault. So it turned out that it was a boomerang, because the differences increased under the previous government. Then there was a Nav report a little while ago, and the SV and the Workers' Party try again and say that the differences are increasing during this government. And then it turns out that there is also a boomerang, because that report is also about the fact that the differences increased with the Socialist Left Party in government. My question is: What does the representative think about SV's failed attempts to combat differences in Norway, and how does he want to proceed to continue working? What is the reverse operation of SV and Ingebrichtsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1566	To the first part of the question I would say that if the will is present, there is also an ability to be present to make a change. We're part of a system that's like a long, heavy train, and we know that it's very difficult to change – it's actually impossible to stop. But in cooperation – and then we have to have a majority, we have to have the big comparisons, without doubt – we come to solutions, and we have put forward several alternatives in the budget that we are dealing with under case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox So the position could have been with the opposition on some of those suggestions -- that's part of the answer -- we might have got a better solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1574	It is not often, but I disagree with the previous question, representative Stefan Heggelund, that the Socialist Left Party does not show where they cut, because in one area they are clear that they cut, and that is 53.5 million. kr to the decommissioned. It cuts the Socialist Left Party in its draft budget. It would have been interesting to know why the Socialist Left Party is doing it, because it's not coming out of the budget. The party of progress and the government is, as you know, in disagreement with the cut from the Socialist Left Party. But there are several cut SV has stood for in this room. We have had several rounds of the famous abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. The Socialist Left Party went high on the track and was against the government reducing the curtailment, which means that married and cohabiting pensioners get 8 000 to 9 000 kroner more. Since SV supports the principle of curtailment, my question is: is it relevant for SV to introduce a curtailment of health benefits, daily allowances or other areas, or is it only the country's pensioners to be punished because they are married or cohabited?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1583	Although I have a speed here from before, I haven't been here that much lately. So the representative Wiborg really surprises me with some details that I just have some rough knowledge of. But we don't have to cut. We have to redistribute, and that's what matters. To the last part of the question, we should not cut anything to those whom the representative asked for last time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1590	I fully understand that when you are an alternate, you do not have a full overview of everything in a large and large budget. I can tell you that this is under the cover. 2655, heading 70. There's a Socialist Left Party, 53.5 million. kr in the disability allowance. Back to the famous abbreviation for married and cohabiting. I am pleased that the representative does not want to extend it to sickness benefits, daily allowances, etc. But the question is why the representative of Ingebrichtsen and the Socialist Left wants the pensioners, as the only group in Norway, to be punished for being married or cohabiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1598	With all due respect, we're not going to punish anyone. It's a completely wrong choice of words. We're not going to punish anyone, but we have an alternative budget. I just have to find out. We can have different paths to the goal, and we can have different targets. But we have submitted a package where we want to redistribute: we want to take from some places and add some other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1603	I fully agree that an important part of the policy is about prioritizing; it is about allocating benefits and burdens. But the Socialist Left believes that it is the country's pensioners – at least married and cohabiting pensioners – who are the ones who have to pay for other bets the Socialist Left Party has. The party of progress disagrees with that. We believe that those who built the country deserve their pensions, and we still believe – even though the representative of Ingebrichtsen disagrees – that it is punishing pensioners, by reducing their basic pension, only because they choose to live a life as married or cohabiting. But that's where we disagree. The representative was also within the famous trade union deduction, because the Socialist Left Party is too tax-free for one group – the group that supports the Socialist Left Party financially. Why does the representative not want all workers, both organised and unorganised, to benefit from tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1610	We know that many of the rights and agreements that employees have with employers are just fought by those who have organized themselves through the various trade unions. That's exactly what's been involved in building the good social arrangements in our society. That is why we want them to receive a deduction. They will see in concrete terms that they have an economic advantage of organizing themselves and making proposals and demands that we do better for the whole of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1620	The decline in oil and gas industries has seriously made our dependence on this industry visible and how vulnerable we have become because it has not been taken the necessary steps in the past – despite all the warnings given. If we are to be able to maintain the welfare state as we know it, more people have to contribute. Others have to go from passivity to activity, and it has to pay to work rather than to receive social security. Active labour market policies shall qualify more people into the labour market. Nav offices should help job seekers to get to work more quickly. At the same time, we're going to have a social security network that looks after those who, for various reasons, cannot work. The government expects a more positive development in the labour market in 2017, but we still see significant challenges in the labour market. The oil industry has a major impact on the development of unemployment. The countries of the South and West continue to enjoy the highest level of unemployment. Rogaland is stocked with the highest unemployment rate, 4.5 pst at the end of November. In 13 of the counties of the country, however, the unemployment rate is lower than at the same time last year. In other words, there may be opportunities for work elsewhere than where you live. A 4 billion measure package. targeted towards the South and the West contributes to additional efforts in the regions that are most struggling. A high level of labour market measures will increase the speed of work and activity. The Government proposes to increase the level of action by 1 000 more places for the unemployed in 2017. This gives an overall level of measures for the unemployed in 2017 of 17 000 places. By means of conversion, the measures contribute to the conversion of enterprises into new markets. We see that the foundation line is great, and the foundation line is flourishing. Historical investment in the last four years on the road has increased construction activity throughout the country and strengthens the competitiveness of industry. While providing work and activity in the short term, we are highly committed to industrial research and innovation, knowledge and development to ensure that we get more weight in the years to come. Norway is a country with relatively small differences and should remain so. It's a strength of our society that the differences are relatively small. At the same time, income disparities in Norway have increased from 2009, although the increase has been much more moderate than in many other countries. If we're going to be able to reduce the inequalities, we also have to know the causes, and what works. One of the main causes of inequality in Norway is increased immigration. Immigrants are overrepresented in poverty statistics. Many have come to Norway with two empty hands, and it takes time to integrate them into the labour market. Therefore, the government prioritises labour rights in the introduction programme and Norwegian training. Together with the parties, we establish a 'fast track' into the working life of refugees with whom they have asked for skills, and we strengthen the vocational guidance in receptions, to mention something. Too many people have weak links with the labour market. The lack of formal qualifications or lack of relevant competence may be the case. That is why we are now introducing a right to lifelong training. A two-year training course for those with a lack of basic skills is already in place. We increase the use of wage subsidies, which make it easier for employers to take the opportunity to hire them with holes in the CV. We've made it easier to combine day money and education, so that more people can find new jobs in maybe other industries. Some people are out of work because they are struggling with mental or drug problems. The government’s escalation plan for drug use and psychiatry, and a closer follow-up of children with mental illness, will therefore be of great importance. The government will include more! It also means that we need to have a good job offer for people with disabilities and other people with permanent disabilities. In recent years, the State of Labour and Welfare has implemented more sites than planned. As a result of the agreement, the measure of permanent work was adjusted from 9 400 to 9 700 places in 2017. The action level for people with disabilities is continued at around 58 000 places in 2017. The seat of employment and welfare is also given increased freedom to provide clearing and follow-up services on its own account, where appropriate. As of 1 January, a new nationwide youth effort for young people under 30 years of age will replace the three guarantees that have proved to be ineffective. It shall ensure that young jobseekers who, after eight weeks of leave, are not in work, education or other activity, are offered a job. A significant proportion of the young unemployed are in the South and the West, and the investment will only be rolled out there. From the same date, the obligation of activity is imposed on social assistance recipients under 30 years of age. More young people need to go from passiveness to activity. Early efforts to motivate education or work are essential to reduce exclusion among young people. A stronger social security network is one of the main areas of government activity. We promised to reform the care allowance system for the care of sick children. Now let's do that. Twice as many as today will be covered by the new scheme and it will make it more flexible by facilitating the combination of care tasks and continuing to work. The legislative proposal will be promoted in the new year with a view to implementing new legislation from 1 October. In 2017, 140 million will be granted. kr. The full-year effect is estimated at 560 million. kr. The government will ensure that deaf blind people have a real possibility of participating in training and recreational activities. In 2012, there was a clarification in the legislation that, too many, meant a tightening that has been criticised by many. The government therefore proposes to correct this by granting 18.3 million. kr to an extension of the right to interpret and accompany deaf blind people. The proposal means that deaf blind people can now be entitled to be accompanied by interpreters, who can help to improve their opportunities to participate in leisure activities. Too many people have been left with this change. A safe and good working life is important for the government. That is why the fight against crime at work is a high priority. Workers must be guaranteed a good and sound working environment. Serious employers are not to be competed with by unprofessional operators. In cooperation with the social partners, a strategy against the crime of working life has been developed, which is being revised and updated in these days. Five anti-criminal centres are already in place. The results are good, and through the conciliation, funds are allocated to several centres. Nav serves 2.8 million users each year, and there will be more users in the coming years. This means that resources must also be used in a good way. An important grip is increased digitisation, so that more people can get help through self-service solutions. Norway’s largest Nav office is today nav.no. Several would expect the door to Nav to be at home, via the internet or by contacting the contact phone. When more people receive help via the network, they release resources that can be used on them with a need for more extensive assistance. For 2017, a commitment of 440 million is proposed. kr for further ICT modernisation in Nav. To finish where I started: Norway has been in a special position for a long time. Now we're going through a big conversion. The main task of the authorities is to facilitate the creation of more jobs in several industries and to secure the jobs that are available. It deliberately requires a commitment to competence, research and development, to an infrastructure that benefits both people and business, and a tax policy that safeguards our businesses. At the same time, we're going to provide a social safety net for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1667	The question of information to the users of Nav has been central in the discussion so far, and here a while ago, the representative Rigmor Aasrud received an answer to a question to the Council of State, which is one of the worst things I have seen: Nav says that they are now going to avoid complying with the state's own legislation on how to operate information. Nobody disagrees with digitisation, but there is a clear regulatory framework for how to get information for them that is not a good option. And so the Council of State supports Nav in that letter of reply. Now there is a proposal in the Chamber – not only from SV, as it sounds like here, I have already taken it up on behalf of three parties – which obliges the Council of State to follow up on the fact that those who want information on paper will still get it. Will the Council of State follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1674	Yes. Nav works with digitisation of its services. It frees up a lot of resources and simplifies the amount of work. At the same time, we are concerned that users will receive the information that they are entitled to and that they need. It is that new information will still be put on paper by users. The annual report is also kept on paper. The callers will also have the information read out. It is also clear that those who, for various reasons, still want to get it in writing will be able to get it. The general rule is that this should be done digitally, but those who, for various reasons, need to have the information in writing should receive it. I have asked that Nav show flexibility now, and Nav has also confirmed that they will. I have full confidence that Nav will demonstrate the flexibility now towards those users who, for various reasons, need it in writing, even though the general rule is that it is digital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1681	It's something different than what we got in the answer from the Council of State, and I'm happy for that. But the only thing we are asking for in our proposal is what has already been adopted legislation in Norway. There is something called the eManagement Regulation, and it says that those who have never used the ID port do not have to reserve themselves from getting things electronically. Those who have used the ID port, i.e. are registered with telephone numbers or e-mail addresses, may ask for further information on paper. That is why what we are proposing is only in line with existing legislation in Norway. Thus, the Council of State may confirm that proposal No. 7 doesn't cost a penny? Or has the Council of State intended to break state law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1688	This is not contrary to the state's own legislation, it is not. What is quite clear, and which should also continue to apply, is that important information should be sent on paper, new information should continue to be sent on paper, the annual task should continue to be sent on paper. The general rule for the transmission of wage and salary cuts will be digital. Then you can call in and get the information read out, and if for different reasons you still need to get it in writing, you should get it. But it's not that this is against the law. I have been confirmed by Nav that they will be flexible now, and I trust that Nav will show the flexibility to the users who are making contact. There is a part that has made contact now. There are four-five a day who have made contact. As I understand it, the users have been followed up as they should, and have experienced being accepted well, and I think that will also happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1693	I'm going to use my line to talk about being for more digitization. I am in that phase that I have started to apply for parental leave. That system I don't think is the most effective thing I've ever seen. The Council of State and I represent both parties that are concerned with making things simpler, more accessible, and have confidence in the users – of people. When will there be a system or app where you can easily press in what days your father will have and what days your mother will have to distribute the parental leave – or that it will at least be available on the web – instead of the paper mill that is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1699	I think I'm going to be careful with sketching what types of apps and solutions you're going to have in Nav. Once politicians have done so in the past, the solutions have been out of date before they have been able to implement. There is no doubt that digitalisation is what most users now want. As I said in my main post, most people now want to be able to solve their problems – get answers to their questions and get their needs taken care of – when they sit at home with themselves. The few people want to meet in the Nav office. Now we have a big ICT bet in Nav. The capital grant is now 440 million. kr for additional ICT modernisation. The aim is to be able to answer their questions digitally as much as possible so that the large resources of those with the greatest challenges can be released. It is the case that digital broadcasting of social security slips, which have been visited by several people, amounts to 30 million. kr, which we can apply to whatever we want. We can use it on broadcasts or we can use it on other types of services. We have chosen to modernise Nav in such a way that those resources can be used for better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1706	Governments recognised that income disparities were increasing and wanted to address the causes. The Council of State now said that one of the reasons was an increase in immigration. The government provides many measures and even more strategies. Strategies have gradually become another word for talk. I have got a very low threshold for strategies gradually. The Council of State does not address the causes, namely the freest possible immigration of labour, which poses growing problems and which leads to governments, if not governments, to turn around at some point. My question is related to the age pensioners. I now understand that the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV that pensioners should receive letters about their retirement pension every month falls. Then we are in the situation that the representative Wiborg said it was a crystal clear remark. That note states: ‘The majority believe that Nav must ensure that this information is also available to those who cannot use digital tools.’ How is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1718	Furthermore, pensioners and recipients of social security will receive information. As I said in my previous answer, and as I have also replied in writing to both the committee and the media, it is that if there is new information, you will get it in writing. You get the annual papers in writing. You can call Nav and get the information read out. If you need that information in writing for various reasons, you can ask for it. I have also asked Nav to be flexible in this phase. You know about this for a year, but it's still something that concerns many people. I trust that Nav will be able to handle it in a good way in order to protect those who make contact. The introduction to the question was about inequality. Yes, inequalities are increasing — mainly due to immigration. This government has been busy tightening up on it. In any case, those living in this country must be qualified. They need to get a job so that they can support themselves and their families by means of their own income. And then we're going to simplify the inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1725	In the case of old-age pensioners, the Note from the Right and the Advance Party and the Left states: ‘ underlines the importance of ensuring that all are adequately informed about performance and payments’.» [[...]] Further: ‘The majority believe that Nav must ensure that this information is also available to those who cannot use digital tools.’ That's what the representative Wiborg said was a crystal clear message. So the Council of State now says that it's those who have a lot of needs to get. Those who need it for different reasons are going to get it. I ask you to clarify what is ‘major need’ and what are ‘different reasons’ and that could lead to a 90-year-old or 95-year-old getting this on paper if you want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1740	There is no doubt that everyone has the right to have this information available. The question is whether everyone will automatically receive it in writing in the post each month, or whether they will receive it in other ways. As I have said in several answers now, it is still such that everyone will receive this information – if there is new information, you will get it in writing, if the annual tasks are to be obtained in writing, if there are changes to the information, you should receive it in writing. If you call in and want to get it in writing, you should get it. I don't think I'm going to make any guidelines for what is considered necessary. I have full confidence that Nav, along with the contact person, will be able to make those assessments in the best possible way. I don't see any need to control the details. I have been confirmed by Nav that they will be flexible and responsive to those who make contact, and I assume that they will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1745	When I started politics, I was told that democracy cost. Along the way, I have learned that the written word costs too. We have been given some explanations on how to resolve these relationships for pensioners, who do not handle the new contact information. But flexibility, which is one of the keywords here, is not to read up on an info phone. Both addressing the questions and hearing the answers can be difficult. As the simple man I am, I need to get a clear and simple answer: Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will ensure that everyone who needs it gets their pay and social security information on paper, without objections from the Nav and without having to go into the Nav.no?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1750	I'm recording a great deal of commitment to this question in the hall, and I hope that means that there's a great deal of support for the rest of the budget when it's this that triggers the greatest commitment. There is no doubt that all pensioners will get the information about what they have in retirement – no one disagrees. We're saying that digital solutions should be the general rule, and a lot of people are digital today. Getting access to the information can be getting online and reading it when you call in. And as I say, and have said several times, if you have a special need to get it in writing, you will get it. But the main rule is digital, it's a huge savings and it's money you can spend on other measures. I am sure and assume that when Nav says they should show flexibility to those who make contact, they also do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1755	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1760	I almost have to put away my post, because when the Council of State answers as badly as she does here, we have to drill a little bit further in this with digital mail. In the State budget on page 21, the Council of State describes the transition to digital mail for citizens and businesses. It says that digital mail should be used for those who have not reserved. The eManagement Regulation introduces reservation access for those who do not wish to receive the post digitally. It has to be followed. In the same state budget, the Council of State describes a saving of 87.5 million. kr by using digital mail. It's all right, but there's nothing about cutting out to send important information to those who need it. So the council has to go home and read the eAdministration Regulation that says how to deal with it, and then you have to make sure that anyone who doesn't want digital mail gets the post on paper. There is no intermediate digital mail/post in the green mailbox. It had to be morse or doves, then. I hope that's not what the council thinks about. When the council then says that those who are unable to solve this digitally should start calling Nav, I think most people who have been away in something called economics will realize that if you are going to have a crew and receive telephones from all those who call, the savings will at least be gone a long time ago. So here, the council has to just go home and do its lesson again. But it's not just digital records that are important in this state budget. There are 135,000 people without work, and there are more. There's no comfort to them in that, that the growth in the number has become a little less sluggish now than a year ago, and that it doesn't apply in all states either. It's still growing. 135,000 are unemployed, and they deserve a government that has some ideas about how to get into work. There is a lower proportion of the population employed now than before, and that is a big problem, because work is essential for everyone, and we need to use the tools that exist to prevent more ports from being out of work. The government solves this with new laws, but a law firm does not create new jobs. The Labour Party proposes several action areas, as it contributes to the activity and knowledge needs of those who need it. There have been 25 000 more people working temporarily. At the same time, there have been fewer fixed jobs. Fixed tasks are now being done to a greater extent by temporary staff. The right is saying that's the result of a successful policy. We believe that this is the result of a failure of policy. Temporary employment creates greater insecurity for employees. In addition, more recent research suggests that temporary jobs are poor both for the psyche and for the career. There have been several breaches of the Working Environment Act in 40 pst. Of the companies with many temporary employees, we read in the Newspaper. The right is saying this is the result of a successful policy. We promise to change the law when we get into government. More work part-time now. Too many jobs part-time. Involuntary part-time is an obscurity. The government is pleased that fewer women escape part-time traps. The working party feels that the joy must be conditional, as there are far more men than before who are in the part-time trap. Work tasks need to be changed, well-established enterprises need to be changed to keep track of them. New and renewed knowledge is necessary. There is therefore a need for more places of study and better opportunities for continuing education. We have included that in our budget. We see that there are fewer people without jobs and more people with sky-high tax cuts. When the social security benefits of those who have the least are not adjusted, it is very clear which direction we are going in. The differences are increasing, and what surprises me is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on this path. The unemployment situation in Norway today needs action, not slogans like New ideas and better solutions, and enforcement. The situation requires action, and it is not the government's ability to join. The implementation force has been replaced by action paralysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1781	I'm going to talk about something other than paper mail, and I think the council actually gave a very good answer to the questions she got, but I'm sure the opposition is interpreting everything in the worst sense. The government has provided an offensive budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. The keywords are work, activity and conversion. This is necessary because Norwegian working life faces several challenges. South and West are struggling with increased unemployment as a result of the most severe oil price drop of 30 years. Targeted measures are important to avoid a high level of unemployment, as it actually did when the Workers' Party ran in the 1990s. But fortunately, the picture is not completely black. In our long-term country, there are major differences in unemployment rates. In parts of the country, unemployment is low; in fact, there is a need for labour. In 15 of the country's 19 counties, unemployment has decreased in the last year. However, the government is taking the increased unemployment rate in the South and the West most seriously and has in the budget several measures to create activity and jobs in the regions and industries most hit by the oil price drop. Since its accession, the government has been concerned about stimulating innovation and investing in new industries. Norway has become too dependent on oil over time. The Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on, and it is important to set up jobs in new industries that can finance our well-being. In each budget, the government has increased its commitment to knowledge, research, innovation and infrastructure since 2013. In addition, we have also reduced taxes to stimulate investment and growth, and we build a lot more road and track. The opposition criticizes the government for spending too much oil money. However, the alternative budgetary proposals show slight differences. The big difference between us and the Workers' Party is that they propose large tax increases in a demanding time and will spend everything on increased public expenditure. There are misguided policies. It does not contribute to conversion. It does not strengthen our ability to create new jobs in the private sector. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, an overall financial committee agreed that the increased use of oil money should go to areas that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. It's tax relief, it's on transportation, and it's on knowledge. This government has taken this seriously. We have spent much more of the space for action in the budgets for these growth-promoting purposes than the previous government. The Government is following up the UN Convention for People with Disabilities in this budget when it proposes to extend the right to interpreting and accompanying assistance for deaf-blind people in public security. The main objective of the Convention is to ensure equal opportunities for persons with disabilities to realise their human rights and to reduce obstacles to them. Deaf people depend entirely on interpreting and accompanying help to function in society in the same way as others. Increase of 18.3 million. kr in the budget shall ensure that deaf blind people are given a real opportunity to participate in physical activity, exercise, go to a café and otherwise engage in recreational activities. Today, deaf blind people can only get interpreting and accompanying help to communicate with others, not to benefit and help in everyday life. Families with seriously ill children experience demanding days and a life they often don't get to go up. As the Council of State also mentioned in its introduction, this government has now set up in the budget a new and better pension scheme which will improve the working life of these families. Today's system is strict, complicated and not predictable. The government proposes to give more people the right to care and the possibility to combine care with part-time work. This applies to parents of children with serious and persistent diseases, children over 12 years of age in connection with stay in a health institution and children in need of continuous supervision and care. The government is proposing 140 million. kr in the 2017 State Budget, with a full-year effect of 560 million. kr, from 2018. It's a big boost. The expansion of the target population almost doubles the number of beneficiaries entitled to care allowance and parents in a difficult life situation receive compensation for temporary retirement of labour income in order to care for their ill child. The government has said that they will seal the holes in the social security network, and the government will deliver. Life will be easier and more predictable for families in a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1803	We're dealing with the last state budget in this period, and it's a good pajamas to settle. One observation in the last few years is that the Right Party and the Advance Party have joined certain mouthholes that are constantly being repeated. One of them is that the blue-blue government has ‘modernized, renewed, reinforced, improved’ both this and the hint, including the well-being. However, an unrooted claim in reality does not become more true by being repeated and repeated and repeated — unless increased social differences are the government’s definition of modernisation and improvement. There's a lot of evidence to suggest. Already in the Government Declaration, a policy was put in place which systematically ensures that the richest escapes from the community, while at least getting even smaller. It's not modern. It's old-fashioned, unsolidarian, creates more poverty and harms society. On Monday, VG had an interesting article: ‘Disparities continue to increase and more than 30 years have little in the account. Those who have the most from before are sweeping the largest income growth. It is the Christmas news from NAV that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Anniken Hauglie, should have been in front of him.» [[H]] If we add: sweeping along the biggest tax cuts, the picture becomes even clearer. This is not just happening because of falls in oil, as the Right and Advance Party tend to claim. That's the result of a wild policy. 25 B.C.E. could have been used to combat high unemployment, but tax cuts are more important. The government is pursuing a consistent policy — it should — but they are taking Norway in the wrong direction. We saw it already after three weeks, in the Appendix to the 2014 budget: Minister of Labour Eriksson went straight to cutting the transitional benefit for lonely, unemployed parents. He also wanted to cut the old age pension by taking from the elderly the partial screening against full-life adjustment, and it was already signaled when a Right-Fremskritsparte-request for drastic cuts in the child supplement to decapitated. Luckily, the Left and Christian People's Party contributed to the fact that parts of this did not turn out to be any of them. However, 2000 sites disappeared, despite warnings of increased unemployment. The car support scheme for disabled persons who are involuntarily out of work was cut by a total of 20 pst. And then disappeared. The right and the right have also had a consistent objective of weakening the rights of workers: the announcement of complaints about more people at work and the proposal for new insurance against occupational injury were immediately drawn. Permitting legislation was tightened up, at the expense of both lay-offs and employers as a whole. The government did not turn until after massive pressure for a long time. A cut in the pay guarantee scheme, including holiday money, hit 10,000 people. ‘Regulatory change’ was called. The housing loan scheme for members of the State pension fund is practically gone. There were three very active starters, who set the direction. It continued in 2015: The year started with a general strike against the attacks on the Working Environment Act. Cut in the children's supplement to late, with NOK 28 000 per child, fortunately, was averted. The following may be mentioned: no to increased deductions from the union quota, no to work towards involuntary part-time, no to standard medical notifications, no to action places, no to real cuts in many important social benefits by simply continuing the rates in a nominal way. The support supplement for the elderly, with all the least, those with additional social benefits, was removed. Fixed employment without guaranteed wages does not concern the government, even though this is in practice the entrance door to social dumping. And it continued in 2016: Then the holiday money went to the unemployed. Quarantine time before the daily allowance was extended. Facilitation grants for job seekers with disabilities and for sick persons were cut. The same was true of activity aids for those over 26 years of age. The total additional benefit for people over 67 years of age was removed for 500 people, who were referred to social assistance. The dry cleaning is no longer coming to Stortinget. And it continues in 2017: Permanent work is to be municipalised. The hidden cuts in basic and auxiliary support continue. Still, there is a loss of reform without the government being willing to provide an overview. Continued loss of unfinished housing, despite government insurance if the opposite. The worrying situation of reduced employment for disabled young people does not meet with active measures. The pensioners who have the most have the most. There are no signs in Nav's poverty report and today's SSB numbers that it will change – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1829	One of the fundamental features of the Norwegian welfare society is a consensus on the value of a social safety network for those facing challenges. Christmastime, which most of us will celebrate in a short time, is a good picture of the state of the kingdom. That's when we see those who are lonely, those who are struggling with drug problems, and those kids who don't have it that way. There are many reasons why some people have bigger challenges than others, but the tools that can make everyday life a little easier are the responsibility of politicians. I believe that everyone in this room has a sincere desire to help others, even though we don't always see the same solutions to the challenges. Norway is part of Europe. Challenges in the European economy have consequences for the Norwegian economy, as the fall in oil prices has shown us. The same applies to unemployment. Increasing unemployment in Spain and Greece may lead to more people choosing to seek employment in other European countries. It is understandable and is part of the mobility of European labour. The fact that people are moving across borders in Europe to get work is nothing new. The fact that different companies are moving across national borders is also not new. Several of them create safe jobs in Norway. The challenge is when unprofessional employers move across national borders, do not pay taxes and do not participate in the construction of our society, but rather threaten our organised working life. This is why the government is launching more instruments and measures to combat labour-life crime. I am glad that the Christian People's Party is particularly pointing to, among other things. trafficking in human beings. This is necessary in order for unprofessional operators not to compete seriously. The government pursues an active labour and welfare policy in order to participate as much as possible in the labour market. In practice, creating good and inclusive jobs with a good working environment and a serious work life without organised crime in the workplace means creating good and inclusive jobs. A working life for all is also essential for combating poverty. At the same time, there will always be people who are too sick to work. These shall be guaranteed a decent and predictable income. That is also the goal of the government. People outside the labour market may need assistance to strengthen their ability to get into work. Some groups face particular challenges of entering the labour market. The assistance shall be tailored to the needs of these groups and contribute to a faster transition to work. That's why the government's targeted bet on Nav is so important to get more people working. Good case handlers cannot be adopted by Stortinget. Good case handlers are given when organisations are well-functioning and people thrive on work. Therefore, it is important to further develop a good organisational culture in Nav, that employees experience that they are part of a community. This can be done primarily by recruiting good employees with a high level of professional competence. Many Nav employees today have just that. The important work carried out by the Senior Policy Centre underlines the importance of research into the relationship between older workers and the labour force. Some older people are struggling to enter the labour market, and it is important to find the reasons for this — not only for the individual but also to reach the government’s ambition that more people can continue to work actively. Labour market policy must be seen in an overall context as it is influenced by other policies, such as health policy, education policy and economic policy. An example of this is the provision of working time, which must be balanced against key objectives such as high employment and the best possible use of individual and community resources. The State is not the only player in labour market policy. Equally important are voluntary organisations, which make important contributions to prevent people from falling outside social arenas. Social entrepreneurs contribute to new solutions to social challenges. The government continues its efforts to improve the conditions for social entrepreneurs and the voluntary sector in order to create a stronger safety net. If we are to succeed in integrating new countrymen and women, work is an important tool, both for learning Norwegian and for building social networks. The state is not able to do this alone, but will depend on close and good cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Therefore, it is also important to be able to recruit people with cultural and language skills in Nav, people who can meet immigrants who are going out into the labour market and integrated into the Norwegian community. As a society, we can't afford to fail this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1854	This year's budgetary procedure has a gloomy backstop. Unemployment in the West is sky high, and unemployment affects individuals and families, communities and large communities. I mentioned earlier that in my home country, More and Romesdal, we now have the highest unemployment rate in ten years. In Kristiansund, the total time off is 5.1 pst. This is very serious, and it requires political action. And what does the government do with this? Too little. The government has a passive following-close-with-position and has come too late on the track. Both Western action packages and change of the permit regulation came only after massive pressure from business, trade unions and opposition. Despite the fact that unemployment continues to rise, the government chooses to cut a billion in the action packages for next year. At the same time, they give many billions of tax dollars to those who have the most. Taxes to the richest do not create any more jobs. Taxes to the richest increase the differences. We have a government that doesn't give priority to what's most important to ordinary people. Work for all is the main issue of the Workers' Party. We take unemployment seriously and therefore propose strong measures for work in our alternative state budget. Safety in work, security for work, that's our motto. Our package of measures for those areas of the country most affected by unemployment is 1 billion. kr higher than the government. Our targeted policies to get people working through labour market measures are strengthened by half a billion dollars in our alternative state budget. We have an active policy that creates new jobs, and we have an active policy that gives unemployed people work. We give priority to what is most important for ordinary people. Work for all is very important, even for those who are far from ordinary working life. The provision of work for people with developmental disabilities is very important. Having a meaningful job to do is of course as important for this group as for all of us. The feeling of contributing to the creation of value, the feeling of having a job to go to, the feeling of having workmates and the feeling of belonging make life meaningful. Unfortunately, there are too few places in the measure Permanent work, VTA. The organisations have pointed this out for a long time. There are many participants involved who do not receive the VTA because of too few places. The Workers' Party will give priority to work as an activity rather than inaction to this group as well. That is why we are proposing 300 new VTA sites in addition to the government's proposals. Unlike the government, we're adding fresh funds to finance the increase. The working party is strongly critical of the government's plans to transfer responsibility for permanent work from state to municipality. We fear that this will affect the weakest participants in the action. Participants in the VTA shall enjoy the same rights as others who need labour market measures. Work is essential for all, and there is no reason for a group of users of labour market measures to be detached from the Nav system. Organisations are also strongly critical of the localisation of the VTA. I was born optimistic. My experience in life suggests that most challenges can be solved. But it requires active action. The government's follow-up-with-holding is not an active action. I and many with me are disappointed with the government's inability to take concrete action against unemployment quickly enough. The government's weak response to unemployment shows that the country needs a new government. The working party is ready. We're always ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1879	I'm going to give the last speaker right in one thing, and that's the last thing she said, that the Workers' Party is always ready. The Labour Party is always prepared for power. Power is the only thing that matters to them, and that's also why during this period they haven't been able to deliver any real good alternatives, for example. to combat unemployment. There the government's policy has begun to work. There are both short-term and long-term measures: strong action packages against the most severely affected region, action packages that have started to create jobs, and — long-term measures — that we get through the transition that Norway needs to undergo, including the introduction of new drugs. through a responsible economic policy, to pay more to work and to pay more to invest. The working party and the left-hand side generally call it tax relief to the richest. It's a rhetoric they've used – with luck and accident, it must be said – about since 2003, maybe long before it too, who knows? But it doesn't make it any more true for that reason. The answer is no longer to tax jobs. You have to be a member of the Workers' Party in order to believe that if a company has less room for economic action, it will be easier for them to hire new or to invest in new projects. Then I agree with the representative Christoffersen that this is a good time to reflect on the state of things, as it is the last labour and social budget debate in this period. So what has this government done in the field of employment and social affairs? Well, it started with some absolutely necessary adjustments to the Working Environment Act – adjustments that made it easier locally to control their own working hours, to negotiate their own working hours, and to give more influence to those who wore their shoes over the workplace. We also lowered the thresholds of working life, and we saw that, for example. The mob project supported us in it – various action providers supported us in it – and we now also see that it is a positive action. More people get a foot into the world of work. That was the goal. That was the point. This is also the only working party that has said that, if they come to power, they want to reverse the work environment law. They want to raise the thresholds of working life. At all the other points in terms of the changes that were made, they can't be concrete on one thing about what's going to happen if they come back to power. It's pretty amazing. The party that says that they are engaged in a predictable employment policy is now the most unpredictable party in labour policy. They have no answers. In addition, we have invested heavily in action areas. We have imposed an activity obligation on recipients of social assistance who are under 30 years of age. We do that because it works, and because we want this to be an offer, and something that works all over the country. We have cleared up the so-called youth guarantee schemes from the red-green government, the schemes that showed that the left-hand side does not know what the word guarantee means – the guarantees that were broken over and over again, with a new youth effort for them under 30 years. We have, in cooperation with the parties, put in place measures to speed up the integration of refugees into work; we have strengthened the system of labour assistance; we have expanded the care system – it was urgent – and we have expanded the interpretation and accompanying aid for the deaf. So the summation of this period is that the government combines short-term and long-term measures to ensure that Norway is able to cope well with the transition we all know it has to take place. We close holes in the safety net, and we clean up after the red-green failed implementation of the Nav reform. This work shall continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1894	It is soon Christmas for the third time in this great period, and the Right and Advance Party budget proposals confirm the much-mentioned quotation that winter is truly coming on us, but unfortunately all good things are not three. That's why I fully agree with the previous speaker, who says it's a time to sum up, a time to look back in three years and what it's given us with the Right Party government. The questions we have to ask ourselves are: Is it better to be an employee today than it was three years ago? Is it better to be an oil worker? Is it easier to be a building worker, a nurse or a police officer? Is labour market policy in a strong way against unemployment as unemployment increases? And is it that more people contribute to the state budget instead of living off the state budget, as the rhetoric sounds so good in this room? Is the employment rate higher or lower than it was three years ago? And is it more or less unemployed than three years ago? Is it possible for more people to become the best of themselves and to have greater freedom of choice? Is there more or less temporary staff who want a permanent position and a salary to live on every single month, and a guarantee of that? Is the proportion taking out a paper issue higher or lower? And are there several fathers who want it, who are longer at home with their children? The right and the Progress Party's intervention in security and redistribution from the poorest to the richest exemplifies best with the image of the greedy sheriff of Nottingham who walks and shakes the last crowns out of the gypsum of the poor man with the worn leg. A sped little stream turned into a river. Differences in Norway are increasing, and Norway is going in the wrong direction. The Christian People's Party and the Left have bravely tried to build dykes against the blue-blue stream, but you can't do it alone. There is a requirement for more people to stand together, the power of several parties in the Stortinget, for the big problems we have to solve together. The thousands of listening posts in Norwegian workplaces, members of LO and Tekna and trade unions report back on tougher issues, more unprofessional ones, and a labour market under strong pressure at a time of high unemployment. The National Audit Office has also strongly criticised the government’s lack of response to labour market crime, to trafficking in human beings, and to the exploitation of vulnerable people. Representative Andersen received a reply to his letter to the Council of State: Is there any new action in this State budget against labour market crime? The answer was a perfectly clear no. The Christian People's Party and the Left must negotiate every year the measures that come, as a centre against labour-life crime, and must draw the Right and the Advance Party from the far right to the centre of Norwegian policy, where we agree that the Norwegian model is solid. What is the Norwegian model? Well, it's a highly organised working life with employees and employers working together towards a goal of increasing productivity, and of streamlining – not through flat cheese needs, but through knowledge realization and liberation, because what we get together is so much more than what we get alone. This is the Norwegian model, where, in the 1990s – when it was tough times – solidarity options were offered, and where, through previous government councils in this post, the Prime Minister's office warned against treating organisations in the labour market in that way, because it was referred to as disrespectful. Well done is better than well said, and we have received many beautiful words from this government in this room. Now we're just waiting for it to be done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1911	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1917	The representative Heggelund has been used to shame the government and have some extremely intense attacks on the Workers' Party. I would rather recommend that the representative talk to the people who need assistance from the people we are talking about here in Nav and around, and see how those people are doing. The message would then be somewhat more nuanced. For example, professional participation in Norway goes downwards – it should worry the Right Party – it goes down very quickly, and there is an incredibly serious trend in Norwegian society because it both reduces the individual’s ability to obtain income and the ability of society to maintain welfare performance. We are facing major changes. The State of Labour and Welfare has an operating budget of 11 436 million. kr – mainly Nav. There's a need for conversion, because there's a lot of money, it works too badly, the quality is too weak, and I'd recommend more people to engage in the situation with people who are in contact with these institutions, so that a better person can understand the situation. So there's a need for conversion, and the ICT projects are important. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State and of the government that is here, on page 25 of the vote, which states that these technological advances, supported by the Centre Party, must be combined with the fact that each Nav office in each municipality ‘has the necessary time and staff to assist people who need practical assistance in completing applications for their legitimate benefits’, for example. It is something that the Council of State, the Administration and the Nav should notice, what is on page 25, as said by a unanimous committee. Otherwise, the Central Party's will is great. We have to get more professionals in the first line in the Nav offices in the municipalities and districts, we have to get fewer people in the special units, and we have to give more authority to the people who sit in the first line to reduce the problems that come when one does not do a good job. This will lead to a more attractive job, getting employees with social education and experience, and it will be more interesting, because it is precisely those who meet people who need help, who have the best overview of the situation. We have to draw alternates on those who sit in the special units, but it's the first line that needs to be strengthened, and I hope the Council of State can confirm in later posts that the first line in Nav should be strengthened in order to get greater quality, better treatment and a cheaper service. It's about a lot of money and a lot of people, and it's very important for the life situation of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1926	The cost side of the labour and social budget is NOK 440 585 035 000. It's unparalleled the largest committee budget in this house. Then one would think that the budget debate in that committee was an exciting debate in which there were arguments that were broken against each other, re-priorities, different views on what is going to happen, and what is going to go down. But it's not an exciting debate. Why isn't it? It's because the biggest opposition party, the Workers' Party, is its only view of all entries is that they're not big enough. There is not one cut, there is not one repriorization. But it solves such a simple one, because, as the representative Torve said, they come with fresh means – or tax incentives, which it actually means. It's very simple, turn it up, ten billion in, and we can spread it out a little bit. The Labour Party can do that very well, so they've been holding on for eight years. I would like to ask the representatives of the Labour Party a question: isn't there a critical reflection around a single entry in this budget, about the sick pay scheme, work clearance money, AFP – take your pick – isn't there one entry here that might have made any changes, re-prioritized? Is there not one single area in the entire labour and social budget that could cope with one krona less, so that one might have increased by one krona in another budget line? It's allowed, but it doesn't happen. What's happening is that one sends up representatives on the pulpit, like the representative of Otterstad, who talks about us being like the sheriff of Nottingham, who takes money from the old people, and who talks about the Christian People's Party and the Left trying to build a dike against the blue-blue flame. Has it not struck the representative Otterstad and the Labour Party that perhaps one of the reasons why the Left and the Christian People's Party cooperates with the Right and the Progress Party, despite some political disagreements, is that they are at least willing to think politics, to make changes? He should reflect on that. I have read this year's draft budget from the Labour Party, last year's and then, and the only thing that is certain is that the Labour Party is by definition for the budget of last year. That's what's supposed to be the golden norm. The representative Christoffersen actually showed tendencies towards a critical reflection, that the government has given the most retired, a little more. Yes, I can agree on that, but does the Labour Party do something about it in its budget? No, they're passing it on, because it was last year, and now it's this year, and now it's been the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1937	It was the representative of Audun Otterstad who made me draw again. Politics is about more than rhetoric, but nevertheless – when representatives from the Workers' Party talk about the sheriff of Nottingham, it is worth listening, because there are some who are good at increasing taxes and taxes for people most and businesses, it is precisely the Workers' Party. It was a significant black paint. Everything's bad. Everything goes in the wrong direction. But the representative Otterstad and the Workers' Party have now deliberately chosen not to talk about the fact that we now have a government that expands the care system, so that when people experience the worst that can happen in life, that one's own child becomes seriously ill, we now make sure to extend the scheme so that parents can focus on helping the child in the family. It skips the Workers' Party and won't mention it. And, as we've been to several times before today, when we have a government that ensures that married and cohabiting pensioners are not punished, the solution of the Workers' Party is to punish married and cohabiting pensioners. When we have a government that, together with the cooperation parties, strengthens the economy of lonely minimum pensioners, I think that's a good thing. When we have a government that makes sure to extend the accompanying aid for deaf blind people, the Workers' Party chooses not to mention it. So also Vice-Deputy Otterstad said that you should always measure what things were like three years ago. Yes, I know that the Workers' Party is very happy with the existing. But I think many people in Norway are happy that we have a government that, together with the cooperation parties, has managed to bring down the health cows. The 8 000 people who were previously in line during the Workers' Party, but who are now out of line, I think I am pleased that we have a government that is committed to health policy. I think the country's businesses and its inhabitants are happy that we have the time to invest on the road and on the railways, that we – instead of what the Labour Party wants, to save more money and put even more money into the oil fund and buy shares in Philip Morris and Coca Cola – have a government that also chooses to invest some of the money here at home in Norway, in Norwegian infrastructure, and not to let it fall due. We have a government that will improve the security of society through a thousand new policemen, and crime is now going down. I think the people who are now free from being victims of crime are happy about it, and that those who are still exposed to crime know that you have the police who investigate and actually get to punish those people. The working party continues its customary black paint, but the sheriff of Nottingham is quite clear who is in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1948	In a situation of 135,000 unemployed people — there have not been so many in 25 years — perhaps one could imagine that the positioning parties had been a little humiliating to the situation in which they stand. But that's obviously not how everyone thinks in this room today. With 135,000 unemployed, you can't just say that you've succeeded. Then it might be a little funny to be so busy that you do some priorities within the same budget, which has so many billions. It's not that changes are the same as cuts, is it? But when Rotevatn talks about it, there's reason to mention that the Left in its alternative budget proposes a cut of 5 billion. kr. That's a pretty big change. I'm glad that even the positioning parties aren't even in that cut today. I think that would have been quite a demanding situation for those who would have been affected. We hear about all the new and exciting measures in this state budget. Yes, we hear about a youth guarantee scheme that doesn't work. No, it didn't work, because no one followed it up. Now there will be a new youth guarantee, or a new youth scheme. But what does it consist of? So far we have heard that the youth will meet a case handler after eight weeks. But then what? What else is going to happen? What's going to happen to those kids? We have just dealt with the obligation of activity for young social welfare recipients in this room. They're about to take action. But there are no measures in the budget. Let me finish with what has been the repeater here today, and it is sending pay slips to our pensioners. I went into Nav's websites. I keyed ‘responsible for the right tax treatment’, and it says, ‘In Norway, you are personally responsible for the correct payment of your tax’. And it says that especially if you have both Nav's employee income and benefits, it's hard for Nav to calculate this. Can the Council of State explain to us how to control the tax rate when you are not allowed to see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1957	I wish the Council of States could go up here and confirm that she will show respect for those who receive benefits from Nav, by providing them with information in line with Norwegian rules on how to receive information, and not the trick of not defining the information that people should have, as letters and thus avoiding the regulations on how to inform people. The reason I asked for the word at the end, however, was the representative Rotevatn, whom I think very often keeps interesting articles. He also made an interesting main post. That is how, as the representative of Aasrud now pointed out, we are making budget priorities – we are doing it strongly. But the budget we are discussing here today is a budget that the Labour Party prioritises – not as the Left, which proposes to cut about. 5 B.C.E. kr in this budget. That is why we are giving priority to this budget in relation to a number of other things. But what I think is striking, is that there seems to be so little of the other parties that there is some concern that we are putting a record on unemployment record. It is the major challenge for society: that youth unemployment is scandalous, that more people have to be dissatisfied, that more people have to have help in the social office. That's what we should be taking hold of, especially because – speaking of the representative Rotevatn's first post, where he says we can only spend money: no, we actually spend 4 billion. kr less in the state budget – we believe that we should split up welfare, and that even those who have a lot of money should be allowed to be involved and split up. So we have a different tax treatment. But I hope the representative Rotevatn agrees with me that Norway is an amazing country in the world. There is no other country in the world where all parties other than those in government believe that the government spends too much money. Think of having such a responsible opposition when you have been so irresponsible to put the Progress Party in the Ministry of Finance. This time, the Ministry of Finance says in the budget setting that the annual increase in oil money consumption that we have seen under this government cannot continue. Yes, in fact, the Ministry of Finance says that she, who is now Minister of Finance, cannot continue. In common, we're going to try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1969	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1974	Three points: There are too many complaints in social security. Very many of those who complain are entitled to social security rights. It can't go on like that. It has to be cleaned up. Score No 2: New rules for public occupational pensions are being worked on. It's broken down. The Centre Party has proposed – and has received support from the Workers' Party and SV – that public occupational pensions should be part of the Works of Agreement and must be treated accordingly. The third concerns the AFP scheme. It included 48 500 in the private sector in 2015, and there is a growth of 24.6 pst. The center part would just say that what was meant was to give the workers the opportunity to leave earlier. This objective must be better achieved in the future. This is a matter that is important to ensure the social profile of the AFP scheme. There has to be greater urgency in public budgets in the future, and there is one area that you have to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1985	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1990	In reply to me, the representatives of the Labour Party actually confirmed a problem. I challenge them on: Is it not possible to re-prioritize anything, not one entry in their own budget? The answer was, no, look at the left, they've re-prioritized, they've cut, and we're against that. Well, then we've got the answer. So one way to think about it is that the Workers' Party is increasing the taxes by 10 billion. The kr and the diver can sprinkle on a little here and there. It's fine, but if they couldn't increase taxes so much, the Labour Party by definition has no policy in the field of employment and social affairs – then they have no sense of that. Then the representative finally says something that I want to say is unfortunately wrong. He says the Labour Party spends less money than the government. They don't, I actually think they're using more. They use a little less oil money. Then they increase taxes instead – and use them. It's a way to do it, but it's not lower public spending, it's higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e1997	In the Workers' Party, we're busy measuring on what we're doing. That's why this is a nice reference path to look back at: how was it when you went into the government offices, and what is it like now, when you're going out soon? To the representative Wiborg: I recommend him to reflect a little on it. What is it like when the Progress Party is on its way out of government offices? I would like to congratulate the representative of Wiborg and the Progress Party on for example. oil money policy, where the rule of action has been made almost insignificant, made record after record in the use of oil money, and aged every budget and budget revised with more oil money. When the representative Rotevatn, from the Left, says that the Workers' Party has problems with prioritizing, I have to be allowed to say that it is difficult to see the beam in his own eye when one points to the tile in others's. It is amazing that, from a welfare state perspective, which many representatives of this committee are so concerned about, it is not seen that it is the way you spend money – spending more, increasing oil money use – to give people with billions of millions of dollars in tax cuts. In his first budget, Finance Minister Siv Jensen reinvented the 50th ear. Ordinary people, with ordinary income, got 50 cents more every day. The richest in Norway received tens of thousands of dollars more every day. These are repriorities. If you haven't seen how that effect turns into an increase in inequality, in larger divides in society, you really should sit down at Christmas and study research on inequality – and spend time well. It's the results that count, not the notes. If the Labour Party had ruled this country, we would not have said that we had increased the number of measures against unemployment – and then cut 1 billion. kr in the unemployment package of the same State budget. We had not said that we had increased the number of response sites – and then delivered exactly the same as the year before. We had put in more money. We had made sure to keep the wheels running and more working. This would result in a person being able to re-prioritize from the labour and social budget, because more had been involved and contributed to what we should live on, instead of the opposite: living by the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2008	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2013	The representative of Otterstad was up and said that we have made the rule of action insignificant. Then I just want to ask the representative to learn the rule of action. Not that I'm necessarily going to spend a lot of time defending the rule of action, but it says you can use up to 4 pst. of the yield. The government is well below it. I want to challenge the representative of Otterstad to answer my question. He did not do so in the previous article. Why does the Labour Party, in the situation of Norwegian business and many Norwegian jobs today, believe that it is right policy to increase the tax burden on Norwegian enterprises and to increase the tax burden on Norwegian citizens? Why do they think it is right to reduce pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners, and to have lower appropriations for infrastructure, when they want to spend the same money building up the oil fund to even more than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2020	Left-hander Robin Hood references have never been right. Everyone knows it's the sheriff from Nottingham who's the socialist. He's the one who takes in more taxes than he needs. Robin Hood is the Right-Man who takes back the tax money and distributes it again. I thought everyone knew that, at least everyone who's been in a school debate. [[Laughter]] The representative of Rigmor Aasrud admits that the Youth Guarantee of the Workers' Party did not work. But then she said that it was because no one followed it up. Who would follow it up? Those who introduced it: the red-green government, who sat for eight years and had a clean majority. They themselves did not choose to follow up their own youth guarantee schemes. That's why there was never any guarantees. But that was not the only criticism of these youth guarantees. There was also a criticism of how fragmented they were, and therefore they had not worked. That's why the government cleans up this, and makes a real youth guarantee for those under 30. The representative Lundtigen believes that I should not attack the Workers' Party so much. Well, I think the representative Lundtigen should buy less of the Workers' Party's understanding of reality. The Central Party might have had more interesting input into the political debate if not everything – almost everything – they thought was what they had bought from the Workers' Party, and if they also managed to have a critical distance to their former partner. Finally, I'm just as surprised every single time I see the representative Dag Terje Andersen being high and dark in social policy. Does he remember what happened when he was the Council of State? The National Audit Office could not confirm Nav's accounts. There was a hearing. Three Labour Ministers from the Labour Party had to meet and answer as to why the accounts could not be confirmed by the National Audit Office. They also had to answer why people didn't get the help they needed. This is the Workers' Party's social political heritage in this millennium. I realize there's something you don't want to talk about, but that's what's real. That's why we're cleaning up the red-green implementation of the Nav reform, and we're taking Nav into a new era. Work-oriented benefits improve them. That's the reason. There is some background to the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2031	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2036	There is reason to remind the representative Heggelund that the latest Youth Guarantee came in 2013. It is said by those who have looked at it, that the follow-up has been strangely weak. Now we have heard the representative Heggelund say something about what is the new youth guarantee from the government – that is to clean up. But what the actual content is is still the same unknown. Finally, I would like the representative Heggelund, who has always been so concerned that we have a work clearance system that is not perfect, to take a look at the proposal that we are promoting. In fact, there we do a fairly significant re-prioritisation; we re-prioritise money from redundancy payments to the measure section so that several of those who are currently on redundancy pay can get a wage subsidy, so they can get into work. I expected that the representative Heggelund and Right had come to support, as they have been so critical of the way the system works. So far, we haven't heard anything here in Stortinget about how they're going to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2043	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2059	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2075	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2084	I am glad that now it seems that we can get security for the Staur farm, and that is what I want to address in this matter. This farm is a cultural memory, it has a significant history as a farm and a collection site politically and culturally, and plays an important role in the provision of research. It's good that there'll be a majority that puts its foot down for the government's desire to sell. There is a need to add equity, everyone agrees. Work must be started here because the farm must be able to operate with an economic result that ensures ownership. That is why we believe that regional and local forces, such as the United States. Stange municipality, should be involved in the work of developing the farm further. If it were not to succeed and the government would continue to sell, they would have to come back to Stortingen with a case of their own, that is the clear communication from the Committee. It might be an idea to develop the farm into a bioeconomy centre – which is an important topic in the area. It has, after all, a peculiarly good location, in the heart of the interior and in the middle of the dining room, and can help to continue an important work to raise green industries. We are opposed to sales and are also concerned that the government parties want to sell without looking at what can be done to improve the economy on the farm – looking for solutions that are forward-looking. But now the government has received feedback from the Committee that new opportunities need to be looked at in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2091	There is a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party here, I do not know whether the representative Foss will address that proposal, if it cannot be put to the vote. It is the proposal ‘The Grand Duchy agrees to the winding-up of Staur farm AS’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2096	Then I take up the proposal, which the Right Party and the Advance Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2101	The representative of Ingunn Foss has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2106	Just a short comment on the Stour farm, but in the introduction: when one treats the effusion, it is worth rejoicing that when the permissions of the farm go up by 190 million. kr, as a result of Norwegian agriculture’s success — when market revenues grow so much — the level of subsidies must also be increased. Too many will appear to be paradoxical, but that is what we are proposing in this new era. So to Staur farm AS: it's a company that's gone under over time. The company has a board of directors who have tried to take more steps to bring the company's activity to a level that gives a greater basis for maintaining operations. It has no luck. So now we have numbers that indicate that until October one had a deficit of nearly $1.5 million in this company. The message I get in the Storting today, I take, but the result of this is that we risk losing public money in a company that has not managed to achieve the transitions you have tried for years. There is a need to make the Storting aware that this could be the result. This company is not afraid that we are handling the liquidity situation of the company now, with the decisions taken by Stortinget. But we're going to do our best, based on the big decision. However, it is uncertain whether this company will be able to deliver positive results that provide a basis for operations in the future. That should be known to the Stortinget. We're now basing ourselves on the decision Stortinget is making, and we'll come back if there's a need for further adjustments. But the background to the proposal for a hall is that the company has not managed to have an economy that makes it balanced. When I looked at it, I saw it as a little wasted that the state would own a gardening that one could not maintain the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2113	I hear very well what the Council of State says on this matter, and we in the Committee know the situation. But what is really the message from the majority of the committee now is that we need to look at new ways of dealing with this, see if there are new things to say, whether there are other local or regional actors that can be involved. My question to the Council of State is what he wants to do with that order. Is he just going to sit and wait for the numbers to get worse, or is he going to go in and look at new solutions to raise the economic situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2120	I think it makes sense that I adhere to the usual ownership management principle in this case as well. This means that I'm going to discuss different options with the board, but the board of directors of the company is set to make these assessments. They're the ones who have to do it, they're the ones who are responsible for the assessments they're making. Based on that, I have to make my decisions. This means that, from my point of view, it will be primarily about informing the board of directors about the decision that Stortinget is making today, and asking them to review how they feel about the operation based on it. In addition to that, I believe that I should leave it up to the further management dialogue before I do more precisely what might be the outcome of such a process here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2127	Yes, it is the government that has a great responsibility in this matter, but also the state, at the Council of State, since it is the State, at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which owns all the shares. There should be regular responsibilities, but the Stortinget is today clear that it does not want the closure of Staur farm AS as proposed by the government. My question is about agricultural research and experimentation. How does the Council of State view the need for the continuation of precisely the good research and experimentation activities carried out at Staur Farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2134	There are many good activities at Stour farm, which either it will be hall or not, probably will continue, due to, among other things. long-term leases. The most short-term lease has Graminor today. Norsk Sau and Geit have a corresponding lease agreement, which goes to 2021, while for example: TYR, which is engaged in breeding, has a lease that extends much further. This activity could in any case be carried on further, based on the fact that there were contracts in place, even if the State had discontinued its ordinary operations at Staur farm AS and sold the property. So I think that with the government's proposals, too, it is arranged for important activity at Staur to continue. Now I take note of the decision taken by the Stortinget, and will engage in dialogue with the board on how we should handle the obligations that the company has, and on how you might take care of developments further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2145	This is a very good day, by the fact that the Business Committee has taken on the responsibility of the Stortinget, and has taken an active position for the good and bad suggestions of the government. In this case, we received a bad suggestion from the government to liquidate and sell the unique property that Staur farm is. Then it's good that we across party divisions are able to work together and secure this unique property, which has been of great importance as the state's representation facility. I believe there are great opportunities to vitalise that role, and that it could be an official facility for Norway. It's been used a lot before, and there's a very special place that should be used more in the future. It has had an important place in Norwegian political history, and it can have a more important place in the future. In addition, the property has a unique location in agricultural research, with the proximity to the heavy agricultural research environment at Graminor in terms of plant processing. In addition, it's close to Geno, and we have Tyrs and Norsk Sau and Geit's facilities there. So it's not a very common agricultural property, as it's been tried as produced by the Council of State. It is a unique agricultural property, both in a political context and in an agricultural research context. That's why it's good that the Storting is now so clear on two things: you don't want to sell the property. And it's a corporation that operates the property. Ownership is one thing. It's right under the Minister of Agriculture. In addition, there is a limited liability company operating the property, and one now wants to develop the operation. Then I hope that the government, the last six months it sits, has an offensive attitude to revitalise it and take the order from Stortinget seriously, so that you can get a positive development and a positive force there, because this is a Community resource that can be used more. Thank you to the Christian People's Party, Left, Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, who are now saving this property. It is a wise and forward-looking decision. It is unwise for the Norwegian State to sell any unique property, and now we have prevented it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2154	I must say I am quite amazed at the handling of Staur farm AS. When one sees that a long time has not been able to get figures that allow this activity, this limited liability company, to stand on its own, one will nevertheless continue the activity without having any concrete suggestions for activity that will lift this limited liability company up, so that, if not otherwise, it balances. But the idea is clear that the community's resources and taxpayers' resources are not so dangerous, and should be a true Center Party, it seems that a garden should not be left in surplus, even if it is operated as a corporation or by self-employed people. The most special thing about this is that the important activities that are going on at the Staur farm would like to continue. As the Council of State is in it, ownership must proceed as we all know it is going to take place, but the activity that is on the Staur farm would have continued for all practical purposes anyway. It wouldn't have hurt these important activities. So I have to say, I'm just asking myself why a solution is still running where one knows one will continue to lose money, but does not have clear thoughts about how to reverse the development. What I mean is I'm going back into the future, mildly said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2163	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2168	The installation in Grimstad illustrates how the Progress Party thinks. They think so quarterly. What's profitable right here and now? How are quarterly accounts going to go up? What's the point is we have to think about society. Then it might be wise for society to have some unique properties that can be used for research and development work if we want to – and we want to, we want to develop it further – and that can be used as a government representation facility, which was some of the reasons why someone bought the property in their time, and then we can see how we can develop it. It is not that Norway is in acute need of money that you need the 40–50 million you had received for that property in any sale – that is the type of amount the property had gone for. Then it's wiser that someone takes care of the ownership of the property, and then you see how to develop it – whether it's with today's share company, or whether there are other forms of operation – but the point of the Storting now is not exactly whether it's today's share company that operates it, is the right solution. The point is that we don't want to sell the property, because we want it to be further developed in both research and representation contexts. The Council of State and the State then have a responsibility to ensure proper operation until new things can be put on and developed, so that a person can become more profitable in the daily activities of the Stour farm. I recommend everyone who hasn't been there – it's a unique place – to go there, see it, experience it, and see that it may be wise that there are some such unique places the state still owns.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2175	I'm going to make this short, but I knew it started to boil a little when the representative Grimstad from the Progress Party started talking and kind of challenged the committee that we have no thoughts about why this should be carried on. So the Council of State says that of course the board has to look at how to develop the farm further. At least we see the potential in the farm. It has a historical background, it's an important rigged farm that has a lot of opportunities, and in my post I said that maybe you should think about bioeconomy and how you could drag that theme in. Could the farm be further developed in that direction? Then it's up to the board to make decisions about how to drive this forward, too, and not just have the historical perspective. I think we're now going to land on this, and then we have expectations that an important job will be done. From the budget, I don't think this is what matters to AS Norway in 2017, I'm more concerned about the Progress Party and the Right priority of oil money, where you now spend so much oil money that if you continue this pressure, you're empty in 2043. It's not very positive to bring into Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2182	For clarification only: When the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, kept his post now, he said that it is important that one stop the sale of the property, but that one is initially not busy with how the property is operated. But it's important to remember that what the Big One is doing today is dealing with two separate themes. The one is the sale of the property, the other is the possibility for the state that owns to liquidate this company without selling the property and insofar as other ways of dealing with it. But the possibility is that the central party rejects the state that owns the decision that one makes today. In fact, the article that Tryksvold Vedum held the second time is out of proportion to the size that is going to be adopted today. That's what makes me take the floor now, because if the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum meant what he said in the post, he should vote differently than the Central Party initially put up in this case. It would give me as the owner, the state that owns, the ability to find solutions to manage operations on the garden at the same time as one, for example. continue to own. But the possibility rebuffs the Storting today, and it didn't sound like it was intentional on the post of the representative Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2189	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2194	The most important thing is the ownership of the property. It ensures the bulk of the population today – it’s very good. The second is that, through the case presented by the Dale Council, we believe that ownership has been implemented in a slightly poor way. That is why we now want to ensure that Staur farm AS can continue to operate, that capital should be allocated to the company, and that the Council of State should do so. But it's not certain that the way to run the Stour farm is the only good way to drive it further. Therefore, through an active ownership policy, he has to look at how we can develop the property, drive it further, but at the same time secure public ownership. That's the point, that's the goal, and then we want predictability for the operation down there. This ensures this decision, and I am very pleased – both as the party leader of the Senterpartiet and as the staging representative of the Stang municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2201	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2217	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 7–12 concerns the second reading of legal acts, and the President will propose that they be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2293	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2309	On behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, the following are proposed: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: the following provision of the gross remuneration law is expected to be amended as follows: Section 16, first paragraph: the second sentence is deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2317	Then the representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he himself has referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2337	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 8-22, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 23-25, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23-25, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make sure that funds are earmarked so that the Mold thinghouses can be secured in a proper legal environment.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start rapidly the construction of new prison sites on Sunnmøre, in Agder, Lake Mos, Vik, Slide Island and Hustad.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in its work on the new financing model for the grid, to find an alternative to today’s subscription system that ensures that municipalities do not unwarrantedly misjudge financially, as the situation is especially for small and medium-sized municipalities today. The government is also asked to consider a State co-financing.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2378	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting EUR 11 million within the agreed budgetary framework. kroner to Kripos for the investigation of online infringements.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2397	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 and 22, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Judicial Museum in Trondheim for the necessary extension of the area so that they can fulfil the role they are supposed to have in the Norwegian Judicial Museum.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start building new, closed places in Halden, Skien and Vik prison as soon as possible.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2421	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to explain how the Progress Party's proposal on job guarantee for police students, cf. Document 8:97 S [[2012-2013]] The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2440	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 12 and 14 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that as much as possible of the budgetary resources allocated by the Stortinget to the police are transferred to the police districts and that the use of money in the Police Directorate is restricted’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national plan to establish regional training and preparedness centres for together-cleaning and competence building between emergency and emergency seats.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan to provide more pediatric practitioners with social pediatric competence in the country’s hospitals.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2470	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 13 and 15-19, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain whether there is a phasing-out plan for admission to the Police College when the target of 2 police officers/women per year is met. 1 000 inhabitants have been reached by 2020, and at the same time inform the Stortinget of when the Police College starts with a reduced admission compared to the current level.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to earmark the funds for the State Children’s House within the framework of the Police Directorate.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children’s homes in the country are provided with a level playing field for the financing of medical personnel and competences.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up central guidelines for the State Children’s House, such as: shall include guidelines on the medical competence of children’s homes in order to ensure the necessary medical examination for the children, as well as the necessary and relevant medical assistance.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the need to strengthen the framework conditions for voluntary organisations in the rescue services.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take clear action to improve equality and diversity in the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an overview of the actions taken.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen its efforts to combat violence and abuse against children, including violence and abuse against children online.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2520	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose different models for annual discussions between the State and the Law Association in setting the public salary rate.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2539	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue Title Kleivgrend of Telemark.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2558	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 7 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan setting out concrete objectives for the implementation of equality in the ministry and the underlying agencies within a specific timeframe.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the notified wholesale notification of capacity, build-up and phase-out plans to assess the impact of the efficiency and red tape measures on criminal justice, in cooperation with employees’ organisations and prisoners’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government of the planned prisons in Agder is asked to shape them to become a separate department for women in one of the prisons.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify quickly when the new Agder prisons are to be built.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e2592	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an assessment of measures taken or planned to correct the design of cells, as well as an assessment of the legislation permitting the use of smooth cells.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to phase out the lease of prison sites in the Netherlands as soon as possible.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4903	It's going to go over A I first. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4917	It's voted on A.II. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4931	It is voted on by A III to V. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4945	It's going to add up to A VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4955	It's over A VII. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4970	It's over B I to V.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4980	It's going to go over B VI. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e4994	It's over B VII. This is a so-called sharp voting, so I ask everyone to follow closely. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e6116	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11-14, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Johnny Ingebrichtsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the car welfare system so that those people who no longer receive the necessary help to get to the store, to the doctor and around the community can once again receive support.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e6143	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–14, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is appropriately asked to report back to it what concrete savings and administrative changes are being made in the Labour and Welfare Act, as a result of the savings assumptions made by the government. 605 item 1 Operating expenditure.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the follow-up of the recommendation of a unanimous increase and return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with a review of the unintended effects of the unpreforming reform, based on the 2015 equation figures, including finding a long-term solution for those experiencing a reduction in net income from 1 January 2015.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is appropriately asked to report back to it what concrete savings and administrative changes are being made to the Labour Inspectorate, as a result of the savings assumptions made by the government under the heading. 640 item 1 Operating expenditure.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is appropriately asked to report back to it what concrete savings and administrative changes are being made to the Petroleum Authority as a result of the savings assumptions made by the government. 642 item 1 Operating costs.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e6177	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3 and 5–10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government within the agreed framework to find cover to continue the support to Magasin Velferd’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess how the day-to-day pay rules can be more flexible in practice, so that young people under the age of 30 who receive daily allowances are more likely to take up training that provides work-related skills.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the trial of permanent work under municipal authority.’ [[VTA]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation in order to provide full insight into the impact of car assistance on the lives of those who have now lost a valuable asset.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go back to previous practices, where the budgetary implications of future social security settlements are capped. 2370 on the budget of the Ministry of Finance, so that the social security balances must be made to the Grand Duchy in the usual manner.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that those of the country’s pensioners and performers who wish to do so are able to receive their notices on pension and social security payments on paper as before and that there is an opportunity to reserve themselves against electronic transmission.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to enhance the competence of the Labour Inspectorate for the supervision and detection of social dumping.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «In addition to the general rule set out in the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, the Government requests the submission of proposals for legislative changes limiting access to labour hire to enterprises subject to a national collective bargaining agreement.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to provide people with disabilities with increased opportunities in the labour market, with special attention to young people with disabilities’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e9583	It's going to wrestle over you. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e9597	Alternatively, point 2 of Part III of the vote and proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III Resuscitation powers The majority agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in 2017 can: 2.dispose up to 11 million. crowns from cap. 634 Labour market measures, Item 76 Actions for job-seekers 634 Labour market measures, item 77 Permanent work for the creation of multiple VTA sites.» [[VTA]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e9635	It is voted over point III(3). The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e9650	The remainder of III and II, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e12348	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward, No. 1, by Ingunn Foss on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation consents to Staur Gård AS being terminated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e14537	But the outcome was correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e14546	Case No. 7 to 12 are the second reading of legislative acts and apply to legislative acts 27 to 32. There are no comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e14556	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The following provision of the grossing-up act is expected to be amended as follows: Section 16, first paragraph: the second sentence is deleted.’ The President has reason to believe that the proposal will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e14581	The legislative decision, together with the adopted note, will be set up until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-16.ana.ud395e14595	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
