ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e35	The President refers to the adopted debate from yesterday and we are continuing the debate of the throne with Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It opens up a line change limited to 13 lines after the Prime Minister’s posts. The President will propose that the 13 lines be arranged as follows: The Labour Party five lines, the Christian People's Party two lines, the Central Party two lines, the Left Two lines, the Socialist Left Party one line and the Environmental Party the Greens one line. Those who sign up on the list of speakers will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e48	On the other side of the Atlantic, the world's most important election campaign is on its way into the final phase. Rarely has so much been at stake. Many people in American society are looking at developments with concern. The wealth gathers on fewer hands. Production moves abroad. The struggle for jobs that do not require special skills has been sustained. Wages are under pressure. Although many work hard and work hard, some experience that they are unable to create a safe home and a good future for themselves and their children. An important backbone for this is globalisation and technological development. At home, we have come out of the same globalization. We have imported cheap consumables. We were paid more and more for the goods we sold on the world market, especially for oil and gas. The petroleum sector expanded sharply after the financial crisis. The disadvantage was that in other industries out of Norway, the price of crowns and the level of wages were increasing. The two-part division of the Norwegian economy speeded up under the previous government. At the same time as employment, oil revenues and wages increased, the risk for Norway also increased. When the oil price fell in the summer of 2014, it became clear to everyone that we were facing a significant transformation of the Norwegian economy – at least for the vast majority. The representatives of the Labour Party seem to have been given points for this debate, where both the record oil price after 2010 and the sudden fall in 2014 are completely forgotten. Two years have passed since the oil price began to fall. Many people have been and are affected by unemployment in regions and industries affected by the oil price. Meetings with people who have lost income, the community and the possibility of personal development that jobs provide make a strong impression. The Government has therefore made it one of its main tasks to combat unemployment. We have promoted a package of measures. We have stimulated growth through an expansionary fiscal policy. Through the Cappelen Committee, the social partners have written about this: ‘Financial policy has been and is very expansionary, and this has dampened the decline in the economy.’ At the same time, monetary policy has worked, and the social partners have taken responsibility. We can now rejoice that there are also positive signs in the Norwegian economy. On Saturday we could read in Stavanger Aftenblad that the time off has gone down in Rogaland in the last two months. Nav in Troms could report the lowest September unemployment in Troms since 1978. However, we must not believe that our challenges are over. The job now is to avoid a high level of unemployment, as it did in the 1990s. And we have to meet the long-term challenges that don't hit us as quickly, but that in the long term are going to be even more important than short-term fluctuations in the oil price. It is about the fact that the petroleum sector will no longer be the same engine for our economic growth as we have seen in the last decades, that we must meet our climate commitments, and that Norwegian jobs must be competitive when climate policy is tightened up, both nationally and globally. We need to be able to maintain well-being and value creation with a smaller proportion of the pre-employment population. Fortunately, Norway is well equipped to meet these challenges. But they don't solve themselves. The challenges require willingness to change. It requires political courage. It requires leadership – not winging, ambiguity and the path of minimum resistance. The challenges require that we prioritise jobs in the private sector. We need to pursue a more entrepreneurial policy, not less. And the challenges require reforms in the public sector. We need to release resources for the provision of services and services. We need to build skills and work smarter, not fear any change. If we succeed in this, we will also be able to take care of what makes Norway special — high employment, good welfare systems and a society that creates opportunities for everyone. Small differences are an important characteristic of Norwegian society. An important reason for this is the formation of wages. We don't have tradition of unreasonable leadership wages. That's good, and we're going to stick to that. No one, nor leaders, is so important that a few weeks' effort is worth more than a nurse or a teacher can earn during an entire working life. Small differences make us more adaptable. It supports economic growth. It helps create opportunities for everyone. Small differences are therefore something we have to work hard to maintain. There will always be some differences in the labour market. That's the way it should be. Efforts must pay off. But globalisation and technological development can in the long run move towards greater differences than we want. It is a political responsibility to counteract. The OECD points to four key actions: Firstly, we need tax and welfare systems that contribute to redistribution. We have that in Norway. We have a lot of debate about tax incentives to promote investment in Norwegian jobs. However, there has been little attention around the contribution of welfare schemes to redistribution. Cheaper childcare facilities for low-income families, free schooling of high professional quality, tax-funded health care and increased commitment to drug treatment and mental health play a major role in reducing differences. Secondly, the OECD points to the participation of women in employment. Norway has come further than most countries. More and more women are working full-time. We're not on target, but we're on the right course. In the future, in particular, we need to do more to promote work among women with a minority background. Thirdly, we need to ensure that we have enough quality jobs. It is about countering a B team in the workplace. It has to happen on multiple fronts. In particular, government efforts to strengthen educational provision for adults with weak basic skills are important. The same is true of cooperation with social partners to combat labour-life crime and unprofessional actors. And fourthly, the OECD recommends that we focus more on knowledge and education. In many countries, shared school systems create different prospects for people depending on the family they are born into. We don't have it like that in Norway. Therefore, the public school should be so good that it gives all people full opportunities to create their own future. Knowledge and quality at school and in higher education shall not be restricted to those who can pay extra. And then the inequalities will grow. Work on early school interventions and combating high school dropouts is also important and will therefore be stepped up in the future. With these four areas, the OECD has recommended a broad approach. It takes the government seriously because we're busy fighting inequality. If we're going to get more people into work, we need more jobs. Over the years, petroleum activities will gradually play a smaller role in the Norwegian economy. Gradually, Norway will become more like other countries. Therefore, the government pursues an offensive policy to make more jobs profitable in Norway and to win out in international competition. We build the knowledge society at a very different pace than before – from quality work in kindergarten, through teacher engagement, early school work and professionalism and to increased quality in higher education and increased investment in research. For example, the focus on continuing education has tripled compared to the previous government. We're betting more on innovation than ever before. A number of programmes supporting new technologies, environmentally friendly solutions and entrepreneurs are increasing sharply. In addition, the government has increased the yield from the Climate Fund far beyond what the red-green parties were willing to do in the previous period. There are greater forces in Enova's efforts to reduce emissions and create new, green jobs. [[The Minister of State coughs.]] President, it's a little cold. Roads and railways are being built all over the country. The maintenance run is no longer increasing and the transport costs of enterprises will in the long term decrease. Overall, the transport budget has increased by almost 50 pst. since 2013. Lower corporate taxes and property taxes contribute to increased investment and strengthen Norwegian ownership. These priorities will promote increased productivity and growth in the Norwegian economy. It provides the basis for jobs that give a salary to live off and tax revenue to finance our common well-being. Private value creation is a good thing for society. We need more private value creation in the competitive sector – not less. We need better framework conditions for jobs in the private, competitive sector – not worse, as the opposition advocates. Norwegian jobs and our common well-being require that we give higher priority to the creation of value in the mainland economy in the years to come. If we succeed in creating values and reforming the public sector, there will also be room for improvement in welfare systems. That's what this government has. In a number of areas, welfare schemes have been strengthened and results improved after the government change. Some of the main results obtained relate to groups that had previously fallen through. Noise and mental health are a good example. One of the first things that this government did was to reverse the decision of the previous government that treatment in the field of drugs and mental health should no longer have a special priority in health businesses. Now we see that the waiting time for drug treatment has fallen by 40 pst. in three years. Some measures, such as the packaging of cancer services, have been the most active in how we organise better. It shows that new ideas and better solutions can provide very positive results for many people. The government will continue to work to change, renew and improve the public sector. With increased value creation and a continued willingness to take new solutions, as this government has, there will still be room to do more for the most vulnerable in our society. But the most important thing we do now is to secure people's jobs, secure jobs in the long term, which helps us go through a transformation phase in a way that makes us recover the well-being and the society that I think everyone in this room is concerned that we should also have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e153	I had almost said good recovery to the Prime Minister and I would like to welcome her back from the boxing. But I see that it is not dangerous things she is exposed to here! 135 000 unemployed – 5 pst. – the highest SSB has measured. We have discussed this in the Chamber, we have called for action packages, we have called for permitting legislation, and we look forward to the state budget tomorrow, and that it keeps the pressure on measures against unemployment. But behind this is now a backtrace that worries us, and that is that we observe falling investments, falling employment, and so to speak, not job creation. Erna Solberg stressed that things are going well in other parts of the country where the crisis has not hit, among other things. helped by the low price of the crown. Still, there are no new jobs. The new jobs that come – three out of four – come to the public sector. In 2009, when unemployment was lower after the financial crisis, the Prime Minister said: It is embarrassing. Falling employment, record unemployment, not new jobs in the private sector – what word will the Prime Minister use to describe that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e164	There are many reports that now show clear signs of lighting in the Norwegian economy. I take that with the reservation that I think we should do, because we are in a fragile situation also internationally, also financially, related to what is happening around us by influence. But it's a movement. The last Nav report also showed an increase in employment again. That's good. That might show that we're on our way up. When the number of unemployed continues to increase, it is likely that more people report back as jobseekers. We're very busy fighting unemployment, and we're very busy creating more jobs now. But it takes time. After the biggest shock in the Norwegian economy's oil price, it takes time to change and create new jobs. It takes longer than that to reduce them when you get that kind of shock. But that's positive signs, and I hope we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e171	The Prime Minister stresses the private sector. So jobs are not created there, even in those countries where things are going well. One reason we don't get to convert as much as we could is that the differences are increasing. We warned against large tax cuts with an unsocial profile increasing the differences. The tax havens came, and now the differences are increasing. Yesterday we had in the debate that the 50 richest people in this country by this government have got 1 billion. kr in tax cuts. Ordinary people get a few dollars. The right parliamentary leader was asked what he meant about this. He said, "I think it's amazing." Well, it says something different than the posts we hear from the Right that small differences are good. The finance minister has a policy where she does not see it as a political task to combat differences, but then the differences come. This is right-wing policy as we know it from countries like Sweden under bourgeois government and the United Kingdom and the United States with right-wing governments. I would then like to ask the question: does the Prime Minister think that such a distribution profile is necessary in order for growth-promoting tax reliefs to work? And can she prove that these tax cuts actually create new jobs, when the statistics out there show something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e180	I sometimes think that when you hear the speech of a Prime Minister in the pulpit, you have to be able to change the line you have thought out in advance. Half of my contribution was just about what our policy is to combat inequality, based on the four strategies that the OECD has. It's not just about the issue of taxes and distribution – we have a tax distribution system. It is about education, it is about ensuring that those who fall outside are given participation in the labour market, for which this government has taken more power. It's about our welfare systems. It's also about what's going on in order to reduce the differences. I believe that this government, together with our cooperation parties in the United Kingdom, is better responding to the policy of not getting increased differences when we ensure that child care prices for the poorest are lower, easier access to entry, when we make changes in integration policy, which makes it easier for people to take higher education – a number of the measures we have shown. So I'm deeply in disagreement, and I really think you'd deserve a little more serious discussion about what inequality really is about. That's what I tried to play in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e189	I note that the Prime Minister chooses a strategy where she has a pre-written answer and does not answer the question: Is policy sound? What's the result of these tax cuts? It's amazing,' says Right, and we'll get that confirmed here now. For health: cows go down. That's good. It's a development that started in 2011, and it's positive that it's going in that direction. But the government's performance project at the hospital was the so-called free treatment choice. This would lead to the disappearance of private health insurance in Norway. Now this reform is in place. Money has been taken out of hospitals into a private hospital market – very bureaucratic, and few use it. And health insurance increases by 40 pst. So they haven't gone away. Facit: It is bureaucratic – private services growing at the expense of public health services, which do not get what it was promised. Then we're on our way to a two-part division of the health care system. Is the development towards the twofold division of the health system a concern for the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e198	It's like we've made a health reform that has three important elements. One is that we have removed the roof that the previous government had on how many treatments the public hospitals would perform. The second is that we have increased the tender for the private sector, which helps us to buy more places from private companies on a regular tender. And the third is that we've made a free treatment choice. All three things are part of the reform we have made, which now contributes to bringing down the hospital queues. We get people who tell about faster treatments for cancer care, who know that when they get in, they get a follow-up on the road. These are important elements of improving public health. The better the public health system gets in this area, the less interesting private health insurance becomes. But it takes time to do these things. I am absolutely sure that there is a part that pays completely unnecessary for private health insurance today, because they will get a good offer within the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e205	So there's no answer there either. That's 40 pst. increase in private health insurance – there will be a vote on how these developments are progressing. The Prime Minister mentioned the importance of female participation. It has to do with family and equality. The government reduced the portion of parental leave reserved for father from 14 to 10 weeks. In advance, the Right said that it was not going to change the father's withdrawal of leave. Nikolai Astrup said in 2013: "We don't know any fathers in our generation who have to be forced." No, they don't have to be forced. But that reform worked for 14 weeks. Now the numbers from Nav show that the time Dad spends at home goes down. It's negative for the equality. It's negative for mom too. The Programme Committee in the Right now wants to further weaken equality by introducing double leave. This may lead to fewer fathers taking primary responsibility during the leave period, and would like mother to be unpaid at home before kindergarten. Now the Prime Minister wants to debate the Right Programme proposal, and then I want to ask the question: Will Erna Solberg extend the feather quota and say no to double leave? Or what does she think about these grips?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e215	Let me start with women's professional participation. I heard a lot of articles in yesterday's debate that equality came in reverse. Then I thought, "What's going on in reverse?" Wages and salaries are increasing between women and men. The number of people working part-time in our hospitals goes down under this government. So on many of the big parameters that more women work more full-time and less part-time, which is an important part of this, and on the paycheck we have good results. When it's a programme debate, it's like I'm not going to say yes or no to all the proposals that are. Some suggestions in the Right Programme work are good, some are not so good. I'm going to let the debate go, and then we're going to have a discussion at the national meeting. I have the tradition of saying what I mean, to the Right National Meeting when I feel the need for it in some cases. But I don't have to stop all the debates until we get to the hall. But just on the question of two at home: there was a reform that was also changed in the mid-1990s when the Dad quota did not work, while Mother had to go back to work. We solved those rules already during today's order.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e224	A little at last about the Stortinget and the form of government under Solberg's leadership. We have seen that in the government a government party can have two different opinions – it can be discussed in government, but you can now have it in government and in Stortinget. The Progress Party has had it in terms of the regulation of pension settlements, the Minister of Finance that the Council has decided not to accept refugees, the integration agreement, and now we have recently seen the snuff packages and the so-called 'happy clothing', where the government is against, the Progress Party is promoting proposals in the Storting that are in favour. I believe this weakens the authority of the government. We have to ask ourselves the question: does the government mean this completely or completely and divided? I would also like to say that last week we experienced that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are in the press conference and are taking out parts of the budget. That there are leaks, we are used to it, but here they stand at a press conference without documentation and without the possibility for the Storting to handle it. This is not the way the country should be governed, and so the Storting should not be treated, thus losing a government authority. Does Erna Solberg agree that it is unfortunate that such a mess and such a double game would be a norm for future governments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e231	Even under the previous government, there was a clear grip that was made where government parties were opposed – we got hers in government, we got hers in Stortinget, a vote against the government's common policy. After all, the last government period, from 2005 to 2013, started with half the population of SV standing and demonstrating against government policy and Jonas Gahr Støre's policy in the field of foreign policy. In this way, there are different questions and different treatments. I disagree that what we did in briefing on part of the draft budget on Friday is a very strong and new grip. The biggest grips occurred under the previous government, when state councils very often set up and told me what was in the budget. Before that it was quite unusual. That distinction did the red-green government, and we still have that, and there's no reason to pretend that it's now becoming a bigger difference compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e238	This is almost like being in the boxing against Prime Minister Erna Solberg – but those who meet me in the ring are probably not afraid of a bloody knockout. [[Laughter]] I don't think so, either, if one had met former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch. But former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch is now perhaps the foremost defender of child welfare. He's seen how important she is to the families of children. He wants to raise her. He strongly warns against testing her or turning her into a social welfare system. I note that the plurality of the Right Programme Committee will now remove child welfare. It worries me. We see that the birth rate is falling, and when we now see attacks on welfare schemes such as child welfare and cash support, there is cause for concern for families with children. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that it will be a universal and child-friendly child-rescue after 2017 as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e247	Before I answer the question, I just want to say that in the boxing the representative would have the advantage that he had never met me, because we are in different weight classes, while the policy is a little more egalitarian. [[laughs in the hall]] So the question of child-responsiveness. I have no intention of hiding that I am skeptical – and that is a minority and a majority – of proposals that remove all cash benefits to families with children and the freedom that lies there. I believe that the proposal of that part of our programme committee that wants to provide services in a better way has many good aspects. But I also think it is right to discuss how best to reach the weakest groups. Sometimes we know that services are good ways to reach them too, but cash transfers are different. I have previously said what I think about cash support, I have fought for it in my own party. I still believe that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e256	I'm glad the Prime Minister says so. But my concern about the proposal of the Right Programme Committee is that one only presents those who, according to the State, are right, and that one takes away the freedom of choice with it. Today is the World's Teacher's Day. I want to say that almost as important as good family arrangements is that we have a good school, not least for the vulnerable students. That is why the Christian People's Party is investing in two teachers in the first, second, third and fourth classes. But if we're to be closed with that, we need teachers. This fall is 550 places for teachers to study, and we know that by 2030 we will lack 3,600 students. If we're going to have two teachers in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade, we need teachers. It is the recording requirement that prevents – I say – qualified candidates to become good teachers, because even if you don't have a 4 in math, you can become a good English teacher, a good geography teacher. What does the Prime Minister think when we see that we have no teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e263	We have to get more people to want to be teachers. One of the reasons why we have a broad approach to raising the profession of teacher – including: More stringent requirements, five-year teacher training, a strong commitment to the continuing training of teachers and new careers developed by us for teachers – are just lifting the teaching profession for the future. In a transitional phase, it will always be challenging. In fact, when we have many people in continuing education, there are many unskilled people who are currently teaching, who are not fully educated. This is, of course, a limitation that we always have to look at: how many can we go into continuing education when we get some extra teachers that aren't fully trained to be that? I also think it's a big challenge that we're too bad in mathematics in this country. If Norway is to be a technology country in the future, more people have to choose real science. More people have to choose technology, more people have to choose programming – more people have to choose the things that contribute to it. If there's one thing we know, mathematics is one of the subjects where you're totally dependent on meeting a teacher who really manages to communicate it. Unfortunately, it's not like in Norwegian schools that you just...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e272	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e277	...instructs in the subject in which you have depression, so far. Hopefully it'll be like this in the future, but not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e282	Time's up. The next replicator is Tryve Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e287	I almost feel a little sorry for the Prime Minister. I hear the Minister of Finance is also harsh, so I'm going to bring some self-produced honey tomorrow, so we can help the government a little – it's not always we're being blamed for that. I have good honey, which is healthful. It is Norwegian produced [[humming in the hall]] I have a question for the Prime Minister. Now there have been local referendums in the municipality after the municipality – the government did what they could to stop it. Then the results have come. The people have said no to coercion, have said no to centralisation – they have faith in a living local environment. Local politicians have followed up and listened to the advice of their locals – yes, of course we should listen to the people. But last week the officials, the government's local representatives, came and said, "It's not so dangerous with the local decisions and the fact that there's been local elections, we know so much better, so we're proposing coercion. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister listen to the people who have chosen us, or will she listen to the officials?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e295	I think that as a good leader of a minority government you should listen to the Stortinget. I think that's a good idea. I hope the Storting thinks so too. The Storting gave some leadership for this municipal reform. It was that it was going to be voluntary, but that it was also going to be an opening for coercion in some cases. I would assume that the main line of government is going to deal with this and in the proposal of the Grand Duchy, that the majority that opened up in some contexts – if one municipality says no and others have said yes, so that it becomes difficult to do so – will make an assessment, based on the principles that were given when the Grand Duchy dealt with the principles of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e302	I understand the answer from the Prime Minister to that her assessment is that the officials consider better than the local populace and the population what is best for their local environment. I think it's a disdain when the government has started a process where you've been talking about the neighboring talk, has started a lot of local processes, referendums – started a giant machine. After all, you have to ignore it. Is it really the end Erna Solberg wants to have during her prime minister's period – that she should force through aggregation after aggregation despite the local people's will? Is it right to have more faith in the official than in local democracy? Why is it called a local democracy reform when it comes to forced reform? I give the Prime Minister one more chance. Be clear, say: in a democracy it is wise to listen to the people, the people are the boss, not the official. Please, Prime Minister, say the same thing: The people are the boss.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e309	For the government, Stortinget is the boss. The size has set the stage for this reform. They're following the government, so we're going to follow those principles. There has been a basis for volunteering, but with an opening for coercion in exceptional cases. It would be unreasonable not to follow up what Storting wanted. They have wanted a reform, and we are going to implement it, based on the principles and premises that the Storting has drawn up. I guess the Storing represents the people. I guess that's why you're elected here, and then you have the legitimacy to make the difficult decisions – even in cases where a majority may say yes, but where a majority within one geographical unit may have said no – but that you get the good solutions overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e316	Now enough jokes for the Prime Minister about weight classes! But I have realized that there are games other than boxing we share the interest in. [[Laughter]] A few days ago, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance had a leak – I am rather uncertain whether there is a leakage called when you have a press conference – where they presented a package of charges that the Prime Minister defined as: This is what is possible to carry. In the first state budget that this government created, the government went in and cut off the supplement to wrestle with children with tens of thousands of dollars. So that's what the government thought was capable of carrying. But in the case of a fuel tax, it's what people can carry, NOK 169 a year. Is that the definition of what is possible to carry out the conversion – NOK 169 for some, tens of thousands of dollars for failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e323	When we made proposals for changes to the child supplement on the disability benefit, it was linked to securing the working line. The workline is one of the most important steps in the future to ensure that we have more people in our working life who can help finance the larger number of older people. I'm glad that we actually got through and got a majority in Stortinget for what was our main principle, that it wouldn't pay any more to be out of work than to be in the world of work. It's always bad to make such changes. But the intention has to be added to the front. If we have arrangements that make it unprofitable to work, it would be completely rational for people not to work. For the purpose of setting fuel tax limits, this includes, inter alia: because it takes time before people can change cars, it takes time before people, businesses and businesses can make those investment changes. Therefore, we believe that gradual changes are better than sudden changes associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e330	The Prime Minister gave a rather fine speech, talking about meeting challenges and not always going the ‘minimum resistance’ way – that if we are to cope with the challenges of the future, it requires changes that are courageous. The climate targets for 2020 say we're going to cut between 6 and 7 million tonnes. The Prime Minister has promised Left that she will create a budget with significant emissions cuts, and the objective is clear: 2020 – 6-7 million tonnes. What, then, is the definition of ‘significant emission cut’ when the Prime Minister believes that NOK 169 is the clear limit on what people in this country can bear of change? Isn't it that the Prime Minister chooses the least resistance path?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e335	There are, of course, different scales for what you think is a major climate action. I have e.g. I believe that the introduction of electric cars in Norway – and I believe that the representative of Skei Grande has thought – has been a major climate change measure. We're about to reach 100,000 electric cars. It saves emissions to 100,000 cars. The proposals that we put on the table on Friday also save the emissions to 100 000 cars. So it's in dimension the same thing as the effect of electric car policy so far. In fact, I believe that we have usually said that is a big grip. Then this will also be a big grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e340	Drilling for more oil to save the climate, less paperwork to achieve equality, more temporary jobs to prevent B-layers in working life, tax incentives for billionaires to reduce the differences – one would think it was the Prime Minister in reverse countries who stood on the platform. Yesterday I pointed out that the census did not contain one word about the growing inequality in Norway. Today the Prime Minister talks a lot about it. That's good, and she says that differences are something we should work hard to counteract. But this government is working hard to increase the inequality through measures after action, and while we are now having new children who experience poverty because of Erna Solberg's cut in the children's supplement for disability, it appears that the 50 richest in the country together have got 1 billion. kr in tax cuts. So you have to get poorer if you're sick while you're getting richer if you're richer. Why in the world is the best use of a billion dollars of the community to make the 50 richest in the country even richer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e345	The property tax affects Norwegian companies. It affects Norwegian jobs. If we tax the owners of Norwegian companies hard, it means fewer jobs. It's that simple. Several jobs are important in order to create more equality in the Norwegian society, because being in the labour market is the most important thing to prevent differences. Therefore, it is important to stimulate more jobs through a good policy for Norwegian enterprises. For Norwegian districts it is particularly important, because local capital is more important in districts than in cities. This is why there is an important measure to ensure that local resources are exploited and that local jobs are created. I understand that SV will not include it, but SV does not have an answer to the major challenges if they believe that models that do not contribute to getting jobs and capital for these jobs to Norway – that this is not part of what makes us manage to save the well-being of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e350	Since the beginning of Norwegian climate policy in 1989, Prime Minister Solberg is the seventh Prime Minister in a row who has not cut Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, she has done something good, and it is to enter into an agreement with the EU to cut 40 pst. greenhouse gas emissions, which should apply to the whole of Norway but at least to the non-quota sector. Until 2030 it means cut of 0.6 million tonnes in the non-quota sector each year. The Prime Minister has indicated that she will cut about 0.2 million tonnes – very unclear if it really concerns the quota sector, but it will at least take 50 years to reach the cut that the Prime Minister has agreed with the EU. How will the Prime Minister cut emissions in Norway in order to comply with the agreement concluded with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e355	What we have now proposed is just a little bit of a larger and much larger shift that has to happen in the transport industries. Transport industries have to cut significantly more towards 2030 than what comes out of it. Some of the most important steps we're doing are the changes that have already been partially made, and that we're going to do more on the one-off fee, which helps us to replace the whole car park. The development of the car now is that we're going to get more hybrid, we're going to get more hydrogen cars, we're going to get more electric cars, we're going to get a much larger reach of it. This means that private car emissions are going to be much smaller, and we are doing so economically through the changes we have in the one-off charge. At the same time, we are contributing to significant investments in public transport in the future, in the train effort. We have over-filled significantly in relation to the NTP – the investment and allocation of the railways in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in Stortinget – so there are many other elements that contribute to reducing transport. It's a longer list, and we're working hard to get to the goal of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e361	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e368	The languages of the throne shall indicate the main lines of the government's work programme and their policies for the coming year. It's going to show what the government wants with its leadership. Everyone who reads the document sees that the Prime Minister has bombed on the blink. This year’s census is rarely elucidating what government will do in important areas of society — including health. The most important thing in health policy is public health policy, but it did not mean ‘prevention’ or ‘public health’ once, nor did the Prime Minister in his intervention. Does the government think that it is not necessary to reduce social health inequalities in Norway? What does the government want with public health? Are they going to continue with centralisation, privatisation and commercialisation, where health care production is compared with the production of other goods and services, where patients through the EEA Agreement act as customers in an international market? A country’s health system says a lot about the country. We know that the health of the North is related to social factors such as education and purchasing power. The last thing we need is a health service that reinforces these differences. The leaders of the Medical Association and the Nurses' Association wrote a chronicle on the NRK Opinion last week about exactly this. They see the contours of a two-part health care system. 'We're at a crossroads,' they write, asking politicians what health care we want for the future. The languages of the throne do not answer this question. The languages of the throne begin with Norway being a country with great potential. We have a high population, large natural resources, small differences and an open economy. It makes us well equipped to meet the challenges we face, it says. Yes, that's true. Just this gives us a unique starting point for creating a strong, solidarityable public health service, where the wallet does not determine which treatment you receive. But does the government want this? During the Right-front party government, 500000 Nordics have taken out private health insurance. Payments to private health care have increased by 42 pst. from 2013 to 2015. In the 2013 Storingsvalkamp in Stagingsvälter Bent Höie stated that the Right-wing Health Reform «Free Treatment Choice» would be so good that the private health insurance market would disappear by itself. It has not happened. Several have taken out health insurance. Is the trust of the public health service in breaking under this government? I think we're at a crossroads. The solution of the centre party is to develop a solidarity of public health – only in this way can we avoid a two-way sharing of health services and use our Community resources in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e377	The census opened with Norway being a country with great potential because we have large natural resources and because we have small differences. And we heard that it makes us well equipped to meet the challenges we're facing. It's true that we have great natural resources, and those who walked in front of us knew how to use and manage them in a good way. They didn't sell the resources, but let the heirloom benefit everyone when they built the country. Water, forests and fish also belong to future generations. They shall be able to hunt, fish and ensure the possibility of a good and active outdoor life and, in addition, the Workers' Party will ensure that the income from nature will be borne by everyone living here. We don't want to sell the hydropower. State power is still to be owned by the State, and the income from hydropower belongs to the Norwegian people. We have to own our power resources together. Norwegian power customers do not have to pay the bill to make large amounts of money in electricity trading, as the Advance Party and the Right will. Private non-resident dwellings mean less to the community and more to private owners. It's the Workers' Party against it. What the government means by the natural resources is obviously to sell them. We believe that the people should own them. The government points out that there are small differences in the country, and the Prime Minister also said so in his statement, and believes that this is an advantage. It must then be allowed to ask: why is a policy being pursued in a completely different direction? Today, differences between women and men are increasing. The rich are getting richer, and those who have the least are paying for it. And we see how the differences are increasing between the city and the country. There's a big difference between those who have a job and those who don't. There is a difference between those in permanent employment and the many who now have to enter temporary jobs. So we know that many temporary employees don't give a productive job life. Insecure employees in short contracts do not create innovation and growth for businesses, rather on the contrary. All research shows that countries with small economic differences generate higher growth and are best equipped for migration. In addition, we know that a society with great differences is a more unsafe society because both dissatisfaction and contradictions can quickly become great. A society with small differences increases trust between people – our whole story shows it. Yesterday, several of the Right Representatives were on this pulpit and said that the labour market had not had challenges under the Stoltenberg government. I just remember that we had the biggest financial crisis in the post-war period, and then jobs were created, also in the private sector. My advice to the government is: Read, listen and learn. Finally, the Prime Minister mentioned the four Councils of the OECD and said we should take them seriously. It doesn't just keep taking them seriously, you actually have to do it in practical politics, and we've seen little to that extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e396	I would say that the Prime Minister was very well present yesterday, listening to his representatives from the right-wing parties here in Stortinget talk about the fact that in the red-green period it was just "idea dry" and no reforms. This was also said by representatives of the government. Within this time frame, I just want to say one word that puts the whole philosophy aside: the pension reform! Who was behind the pension reform, which has created the basis for the economic development we have today? It was the Stoltenberg government, it was the Workers' Party, and it was the trade movement. Without the involvement of the trade union movement and without the willingness of the Labour Party to implement the new pension reform, we would have been quite different in economic development and the basis for the work of the Solberg government, so that only that example all argues that there was no desire for reform and a willingness to reform, and that there was a drying of ideas in the last period. What's going to be left after this government? I want to characterise it as ‘anti-reform’, as has been said and confirmed by this debate: a tightening up of social security and the rights of the weakest and therefore weakening social security, and at the same time saying – and so did the Prime Minister now, indirectly – that it is necessary to create jobs. But frankly, dear big business: the workplaces did not come, it has never been created so few jobs, and the level of employment has never been as weak as it is now. How, then, can this reasoning be documented? You have to be a right-wing person to believe that. No one else should do that. So I'll say finally, what else will be left? That's a little rhetorical, I'm aware of that, but it's well said. The batch of advances increases the fuel charges. That's actually good. But there is something else that is good about it; it shows that the political philosophy of the Progress Party has collapsed into reality. For they always said when they were in opposition – for 40 years – that the petrol was too expensive, that it was just cutting the fees. But they don't have a clear meeting with reality. It has collapsed, of course, as it has always done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e405	I want to make a happy message from Hedmark. A lot in Hedmark is going now, so it sucks. Some of us tried for many, long years with red-green rule, both at national, regional and local level, saying that Norwegian economy was too oil-powered, and that we in the Inland came a little in the shade. I would also like to remind you that there did not come a single red-green rescue package to the Inland in these years. But in the same period we had a business that took hold of the situation, driven innovation and improved its competitiveness, and when the oil price fell, the Inland was converted and ready to take on the new situation. Now that we have a government like, for example, provide four-way and double-track, increased funding for research and innovation, increased focus on skills and knowledge, and great efforts to simplify and improve, especially for business – yes, we are ready! Bioeconomy is the new oil, where Hedmark and the Inland have great opportunities and resources. Not only can we contribute to the green shift; I would say that we are an important part of the green shift. We have a bioeconomy in Hedmark that is world-leading in several areas, both in competence and on export. This applies in particular to the breeding, processing and reproduction of animals, plants and fish. The government has also now helped with some legislation so that we now have environments that are researching how to raise smoke. The hinterland has good prerequisites for stable weather, little storm and little waves, and we have good space on land, if that's going to be the case. We want more smoke that is born and raised in the Inland before it becomes, among other things. shaving fish. Biosmia at Hamar is a center for market-driven bio-innovation. These are beautiful words for a proud Right-wing politician from the Inland, and there are words with lots of content, important, profitable jobs, and it's sustainability into the future. Hedmark is known for its proud food traditions, and now there is optimism in agriculture. Food with history is nice and sells well. Safe food is an important prerequisite for this and animal health is alpha and omega. Food production is increasing, and there is a real opportunity for profitable nutrition at the intersection of food and food experience, nature and natural experiences. Since we have so many and competent food producers in Hedmark and great nature, this is an industry that can be delivered much of both summer and winter. A professional travel life in close cooperation with food producer groupings will increase value creation, pride and commercialisation. We have natural assumptions, we have competence, and we have competent actors who will and can contribute both locally, nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e418	Unfortunately, these kinds of debates are very often very predictable. I'm pretty sure if you check the minutes of last year's throne debate, you'll find that a lot of the posts this year are reproducing posts from last year. Maybe you've replaced some of the adjectives, but the rhetoric is the same – not because the situation hasn't changed, but because someone wants to give the impression that that hasn't happened. One day, it's been one year since the government released the state budget for the current year. There, a powerful package of measures was provided, which was further reinforced after the negotiations in Stortinget. After that, including a revised budget in May, the phase is that unemployment has fallen to 14 of the country's 19 counties. The availability is even record-breaking in some of our counties. The representative Gahr Støre said yesterday that the package of measures had been larger if the Workers' Party had managed. That's interesting, especially when you remember last year's budgetary process where the same representative thought that the government had done too little too soon and too much too late and vice versa — all in a few weeks. However, the only concrete leader of the Workers' Party presented in this debate was that he wanted a new and strengthened labour-environment law, as he himself said, which in reality means fewer in jobs and more in vacancies. The representative Gisk claims that the only solution of the government and the majority of the population is big tax cuts for those who have the most of them. It's a familiar melody, even though it's over 80 pst. of the increased space for action over the last three years has gone to things quite different from growth-promoting tax havens. The representative Botten thought we were selling the country a bit by bit, even though what is sold is apparently not worth mentioning. Nor is it mentioned that that government since the war with the highest degree of privatisation was a government led by Jens Stoltenberg. The representative Tajik called for more nutrient research, although it has increased by 50 pst. in the last three years. However, it peaks when the representative Kolberg goes to the pulpit – as usual – and especially with his posts yesterday. The right parties and my colleagues on the side here are historyless, nothing less. When you listen to the representative Kolberg, it is really nice that the Workers' Party does not have 100 pst. digestion in Norway. That there are so cold and cynical people who can vote on another party is really amazing. If being historyless means cutting the health cows with over 50,000 people, reducing the waiting time for treatment, strengthening the police with more than 1,000 jobs, trebles the efforts of continuing education – to mention something – I am happy to be historyless.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e435	When I drew myself to debate yesterday, it was because I had the feeling that the debate was about testing new slogans and a little caricatured – in my opinion – descriptions of today's Norway from the opposition. At least then it's good for people in Norway that we have a government of cooperation parties that find solutions to real people's problems. In particular, there is evidence of intoxication. Actually, the drug field shouldn't be a symbolist arena; it's too important for it. But the Workers' Party's attack on free treatment choices just makes it. Free treatment is not the government's only solution and answer to how to meet the needs of the drug users, and how to help the drug users out of the drug. Therefore, the first thing we did was to increase the purchase of private treatment services – 200 more places. We reintroduced the priority of drug and mental health in health businesses, and we have adopted a phase-out plan for the 2.4 billion drug field. kr for the next five years. This is a grip that was absolutely necessary after eight years when the drug field was not prioritised. The government working party creates increased differences for the breaks. There is a reason why tone-indicating figures from user organisations and in the drug field now finally say that we have got a drug minister in Bent Höie. Free treatment choice is not an animal and bureaucratic scheme – 20 million. kr, which has been granted to the administration, has been used to improve the website healthnorge.no. I have had the pleasure of using it as soon as possible to find a place to take a survey because I was a little worried about my own health. It went well. The aim of free treatment choices is to mobilise free capacity in both the private and public sectors. Now we see a working party that goes to the election to reverse this option. I think that patients who are being treated at Modum Bad and patients who are being treated at Hurdal Lake Recovery Centre notice and worry about that. We're going back to 2013, when patients in the field of drug and mental health were the patient group that was most deprived. These are not patients who have had a strong voice in the public. They have rarely been heard when they have told what is right for them. We've done something about that. We have given them a voice, a voice that should be heard when they tell which treatment or treatment site gives them the best chance to recover. This vote and this opportunity will be taken away by the Workers' Party by removing this freedom of choice. It's an unsolvable election vow to Norwegian footballers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e446	The government says in the languages of the throne, and in the debate, that they will create values across the country – in central and districts. They will create living and robust communities, and local democracy will be strengthened, so that good decisions are made near where people live. These are the ideals and objectives that we in the Workers' Party say we fully agree with. We want to use the whole country. But then there has to be a policy of means to achieve this objective. Effective measures need to be put in place. Unfortunately, today we do not experience strengthening of the districts. We don't experience growth in local environments during the blue government. On the contrary, we see an increase in centralisation and the depletion of districts. It's the big cities that grow. That's how this government's policy works. Norway is democratically governed at three levels, and all three levels have important tasks to facilitate people’s daily lives. If we're going to solve these problems, we need powers and financial frameworks that make this possible. In my home country, Telemark, I have experienced the regional level as very important and effective in stimulating economic development. We had a good framework with regional development funds. It made it possible to support good local initiatives for business development. It was possible for the county to provide professional and financial support for the creation of businesses, to commercial areas where local entrepreneurs jointly developed new and sustainable businesses near where people live. It was possible to provide support for cultural events and sports. It was possible to improve people's everyday lives. The economic framework of the county has now been greatly reduced. It must be cut in public budgets. There are fewer incentives, schools need to merge – not to improve quality, but to save money. Municipal action spaces have also been reduced. Development plans stop, schools and age institutions shut down, offers merge – not to improve quality, but to save money. This also leads to fewer employees, and unemployment is increasing even more. That there is an increase in the number of jobs in the bureaucracy, does not help people in the districts. These jobs will be found mainly in the largest cities. I understand that the government has to save some places when so much money is used for tax bills. The priority where the 50 richest in the country has received 1 billion. kr in tax bills, almost does not create any new jobs, but depletes the public offer in municipalities and counties and undermines the ability to create values across the country. The country needs a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e461	It must have been a strange experience for everyone who creates jobs around Norway, to hear the long line of workers' parties here in the hall yesterday. None of them see any correlation between the capital invested in tens of thousands of Norwegian companies and all the jobs out there. It cannot be documented, says the Workers' Party. There is no evidence when the entire business community says it is unfortunate that the capital they have invested, and the capital they intend to invest is taxed differently from that of our competitors, and different from that of the non-resident owners of Norwegian companies. Where in Business Norway does the Workers' Party hear that everything is getting better just the taxes on investment are being increased? What do the representatives of the Workers' Party hear when they visit unloaded shipping companies in offshore activities along the coast – that everything is getting better only the owners can pay more taxes to own ships with no market value that are outside the storage bays? So the Workers' Party uses tax statistics as evidence that there are increasing differences in the country. But tax statistics do not create any differences. The big inequality in society is between those who have a job and those who don't have a job. In order to reduce disparities, some people need to invest and establish new jobs. Nor is there evidence that lower taxes on investment do not work. However, studies are available, including: the Workers' Party has purchased from the Central Statistical Bureau, inter alia: that of Menon, who says that more jobs are being created more quickly by providing funds over budgets and creating public jobs. Yes, that's right – it's just trying to create the private workplaces, you'll see how slow it is. But it's not sustainable. Not everyone can be employed in the public sector. This government uses the combination of reduced taxes, strong investment in higher education and universities and increased activity in the development of roads and railways as the main instruments. But what is the Labour Party's solution? Well, there's a dramatic increase in taxes. Over 10 B.C.E. they send them as invoices to Norwegian industry in the alternative budget. If you're taking the promises that are given, you're up to nearly 30 billion. kr. Jonas Gahr Støre was challenged here in the hall yesterday, to cancel the need for that funding and your two tax increases. He didn't use the occasion. Norwegian business is at an important distinction. We have great challenges with transformations. The party that says that they are always the first to create jobs, namely the Workers' Party, should now show their maps to Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e476	One of the fundamental rights of a human being is the right to work and the ability to provide for one's own family. Therefore, it is so important for the government to facilitate the creation of more jobs. Professor Harald Grimen wrote for a time back the book "What Is Trust", a reflected book about the concept of trust and why this is important for building good and well-functioning societies. Trust is the foundation of tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life and the basis for wage development and laws that safeguard the working environment and the welfare society we build. At the same time, we see a parallel working life, where there is increasing labour-life crime, the dumping of wages and the violation of the intentions of the labour-environment law. If we are to build the welfare society of the future, we depend on the removal of the unprofessional actors in Norwegian working life. We can do that not only by making political decisions in Stortinget; we also depend on you and I choosing to support the serious employers when we buy services or goods. To build the welfare society of the future, we need tax revenues. This is undermined by user-oriented employers. Norway is facing major challenges in the years to come, and we should change in time to maintain the Norwegian welfare model. Society needs to facilitate migration for individuals by re-schooling, securing income and helping them to find new jobs. Nav will be important in order to ensure more new work and retraining where necessary. When Meld. St. 33 for 2015–2016, NAV for a new time – for work and activity, to be debated in the Stortinget later this year, it is important to highlight the key role Nav has in meeting employees and employers. Nav must have well-trained employees who know the labour market, can offer individual follow-up to employees and also to employers. The University of Eastfold educates well-being students, but also researches Nav and their ability to meet the challenges of the future in Norwegian working life. It is important that this competence is integrated into the everyday lives of each Nav staff. The 2017 elections are about trust. The government has provided important areas such as health, employment policy and school. That's what the voters know, even if the opposition is trying to create another image.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e495	It has to be said again: this government does not meet with credibility in Eastfold in terms of job creation. On the other hand, they have proved that they can effectively lay down profitable private jobs in Eastfold and elsewhere, by passing tax decisions that they do not consider to be the consequence. On the other hand, anyone who works at Rygge Civil Airport gets to take the consequences. They lose their work and income in a few weeks. And what does that mean, for example? The representatives Ingerd Schou and Ulf Leirstein about such sudden charges that have the consequences we are now seeing, among other things. in Eastfold? Is that okay? Is this good and predictable governance of the framework conditions for business? Is it such sudden charges that the Prime Minister stood up here a few minutes ago and called 'nutritional policy'? We have the highest number of unemployed in a quarter of a century and the lowest level of employment in 20 years, and government policy does not create new jobs, even if it was the promise when the taxes to Norway's richest were implemented. Spending so much resources on so few is not a policy that benefits the large community; it is not a policy that helps balance differences. On the contrary, there is a policy for greater differences – and we do not need it. If we are to succeed in creating new jobs, building new knowledge and ensuring common welfare systems in the future, it will not help very few to get much more. We stand closer together when we find good Community solutions, and we stand stronger when we put our trust in common rights and obligations. We in the Labour Party have solutions other than the Right and the Advance Party. The Workers' Party will secure the natural resources of the community, the Workers' Party will not sell Norway. We want to ensure national ownership in strategically important enterprises and in Norwegian business. We want to work for a decent and safe working life. We will fight social dumping, temporaryity and voluntary part-time. We need to ensure arrangements to enable employees to develop their skills further and to follow up on changes in the labour market so that they do not go out of date and fall out of the labour market. The government of Solberg is preparing Norway very poorly for the future with its policies, and there is no doubt that this country needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e511	The representative, Tajik, said in his speech that it is important to pursue an active industrial policy, and I fully agree with that. What makes me stumble a little is, however, that Tajik and others from the Workers' Party have been out talking to the business community, so they know what the business community is associating with an active business policy? At that time, it would be very quick to discover that there are better infrastructure conditions and that there are tax levels in the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises out there that create jobs. But there was a worker party man who understood this, because he was a bit out and traveling. His name was Trond Giske. He was Minister of Industry. I have a bunch of quotations that I unfortunately can't read, but he was very clear that the property tax prevented the creation of new jobs. Indeed, policies must help to stimulate jobs — and not drown in the increase in taxes on the left. This means that owners have to pay taxes on wealth instead of spending the money on creating jobs. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has implemented a maritime strategy that makes Norwegian ships flag home and not out, as they did when Trond Giske directed the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has made tax changes that open, not shut down bio factories, as we saw with Uniol in Fredrikstad when Sigbjørn Johnsen directed the Ministry of Finance. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has strengthened, not deprived, the industrial tool, which now makes Hydro build a flowing new aluminium plant on Karmøy. That is why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has taken no rest in the higher education and university sectors, which will contribute to the long-term transition for Norway. That is why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has made it clear that we want, not to wind up, the EEA Agreement, because we know that the agreement is important for Norwegian jobs and for Norway. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has moved power downwards to the municipalities, not upwards to the bureaucrats, which has led the good ideas quickly to results. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has prioritised maintenance, not increased backlog, on the road and on the railway, which makes the goods from town and town come out faster, and our children, friends and family come out safer. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, Leif Sande and LO Jonas Gahr Støre forced the proposal to turn back which would result in a delay in the development of the largest industrial project of our time, Johan Sverdrup. The project will generate 51 000 new annual works, revenue to the state in the event of a staggering 1 350 billion. kr and activity throughout the country. We have done this at the same time as we have given tax relief in Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e518	Defence policy, which is an essential part of the security policy, must include: ensure the territorial integrity of Norway on land, at sea and in the air. The world of today is unfortunately more uneasy and threatening than in quite a long time, and this should indicate a much greater attention to the defense than what has been the case back in time. In recent years, we have seen that new and sometimes unbridled threats can affect how we define security policy, and how our military defence should be part of it. This year we use approx. 1.4 pst. by the national military defence value creation. Now, not a percentage of GDP is the only governance parameter for how well defended we have, but it still gives an indication to what extent we are willing to bet on a credible defense of our own country. On 17 June this year, the government presented proposals for a long-term defence plan, which is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy. The long-term plan is based on a number of studies, but the most central is the defence chief’s professional-military council. This is good, as it would guarantee that there will be a good cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the head of defence in the further planning work. The Defence Manager himself has stated that the plan constitutes a significant uplift and that it is a right step towards a relevant and credible defence. There is no doubt about anything but that we need to get there as soon as possible that we can say that we have a relevant and credible defence. After quite many years of depriving the defence, we have unfortunately come into the situation that parts of our important capacities have not been satisfactorily followed up, and this applies both to the material side and to the crew side, including competence and quality. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Defence has been quite clear in his statements that the first priority in the future will be to ensure that the weapons systems we already have are working as they were at the time of acquisition intended to work. When the long-term defence plan is now to be discussed in Stortinget, I hope that the Stortinget can arrive at a solid, comprehensive decision for the long lines that the long-term plan sets out. Throughout the whole of the measures and objectives proposed by the government in this proposition, a solid basis for the long-term development of the defence sector is established so that defence remains a relevant security policy instrument. The Progress Party, as a defence party, will make a very active contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e533	Although this is the opposition's debate in many ways, there is something missing, which is not quite as it should be and should be. I miss an opposition, and in particular a working party, which has used the years of opposition to develop more or less good policies that respond to the greatest challenges we have as a society. When the representative Gahr Støre started the throne debate by stressing that the Workers' Party was to be a responsible opposition party, I hoped that this would mean a concrete alternative to government policy. From there we have heard a lot of fine and big words without content other than caricature descriptions of the right side and rhetoric that are so cheap that you would think there was a crisis in the rhetorical industry. The Workers' Party is so dedicated to producing its crisis message that it forgets many parts of Norway, including North Norway. As the Prime Minister said, the unemployment rate was so low in Troms in September that you have to go all the way back to 1978 to find lower unemployment in September. It is part of the story that Right warned against Norway being too dependent on oil and gas under the previous government. The warnings were not taken seriously. As the Workers' Party now appears, it seems that they do not relate to what they said and did a few years ago, either because they have forgotten it themselves, or because they hope that the voters forget. The municipal reform is in many ways the perfect picture that the Workers' Party does not reach its own ambition to be a responsible opposition party. It cannot be easy for the rapporteurs of the Labour Party to know what to think when their own members of the Stortinget change between each time local government meets around the country. The previous government had all the possibilities to use the action space in the Norwegian economy to initiate conversion and give us more legs to stand on, but after eight years of reform break, rest cutting and surfing on high oil price waves, today's government is showing the way, with better solutions ensuring Norway. There are signs of improvement in the economy. The last business that needs now is more tax bills. What is needed is to continue to invest in transport, more knowledge, research and innovation and good conditions for future jobs. I think the voters will reward the Right to implement targeted measures against short-term unemployment, which are also built up during the long-term transition, to have policies that ensure that students learn more at school, and to strengthen well-being – without hiding a hidden tax bill of over 30 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e546	It's indicative of the throne we're debating here today, that the only attention the throne has received is that the king stumbled when he went down. But it's not just the king who stumbled. The government did, too, when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance presented the Green Tax Change proposal on Friday. The government has proposed a charging scheme involving 15 cents in increased petrol tax, 35 cents in increased diesel tax and 20 cents in increased mineral oil tax. At the same time, they will reduce the annual tax, cut some toll rates and increase the commuting deduction. The drivers will pay less in fees next year than they do today, said the Prime Minister at the press conference. Despite a slightly higher price of petrol and diesel, the drivers come out of this in a favourable way, with total net relief above 900 million. kr, said the Minister for Finance. According to the government, the proposal will provide approximately 200,000 tonnes of CO 2 reduced emissions next year. ‘It’s not a realistic calculation, it’s based on too high reductions’, says TØI researcher Johansen of Dagbladet and believes that at best it results in a reduction of 45 000 tonnes. But that's exactly what the government doesn't have to take into account, because they don't trust scientists in this government. But perhaps they should take into account what their cooperation parties say? This is not the green shift that the four parties have previously agreed to be carried out, says the Christian People's Party and the Left. They respond to the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance at a press conference put the ultimatum on higher taxes on petrol and diesel before the negotiations on the budget have at all started. ‘I’m a little unsure whether the government has understood the seriousness. Man-made climate change is the biggest societal challenge facing us, precisely because of this, the 2017 budget must facilitate a significant reduction in climate change emissions,” said the representative Breivik of the Left in an interview on the matter, adding that the government presented is identical to the last offer given to the Left and Christian People's Party earlier this month. [[...]] The Left has already said no to that, concluded Breivik. Young Left writes on Twitter that the government has submitted an irresponsible proposal – Erna has to negotiate or leave, they demand – while party leader Trine Skei Grande praised the climate effort of the Advance Party in his contribution yesterday. The representative of the Seven Christian People's Party said in the debate that before we go into the work of this session on the budget and otherwise, he would have a confirmation that there are no absolutes on the Right on how to achieve the commitment of last year's budgetary work. He aimed at the Prime Minister's ultimatum in terms of fuel charges. He got no such confirmation. What he and we have heard during the debate is that the representatives of the Right claim that the cooperation parties agree on the green shift and how the fees should be set up. Confusion and root characterise the cooperation between the four batches, even when they are now in front of the last hard round of budgeting before the government shift next harvest. We can safely conclude that the green shift was initially cancelled by the government. But it remains to be seen whether the government is serious about its ultimatum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e570	Much of this debate has been about how we are going to use the increasingly smaller space we have in the Norwegian economy to create more jobs. I'm a little surprised by the position and the government that looked at the degrees that recede to justify the hit safety especially related to the large tax havens that end up in the richest pockets. I have to say that in the course of such a debate, it was expected that at least you would get a boost to explain what is so dynamic about these tax havens, and how many jobs will come, and a reason why the jobs have not arrived. It was said by the representative of Flätten, Wilhelmsen Trøen and others that the Workers' Party is closest to autopilot in terms of these tax havens. I like to take tax notes, but I think when we're faced with a situation where you have an ever smaller room for action, you have to demand a reason why you don't get a bigger effect out of it. It is not that the Workers' Party, when we sat down and rushed, just poured money into the public sector and created jobs there, rather on the contrary. In the red-green period, more than 350,000 jobs were created, two thirds in the private sector. I had expected from the government and the position that at this round you would point to the effect especially towards the new industries that we are going to invest in, and to what extent it actually creates jobs. I see that I've been given liberal speaking time since the clock doesn't go, but I feel like I'm approaching the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e577	I'll give you another two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e582	One and a half minutes, yes. I want to say that what we're going to live on in the future is essentially the green industries. It is obvious that over the last three years, the Storting has been waiting almost in vain for policy action through large-scale notifications, whether in agriculture, forestry, bioeconomy, industry reporting. I believe that many of the resources that are currently being used to provide the richest large tax havens, which create greater differences among people, could have been used to strengthen, among other things. investment and also increased profitability in the industries we will live on in the future. I am thinking in particular of food production, agriculture and forestry. That must be allowed to say. I heard that the representative Rangdi Krogstad from Hedmark and the Inland just pointed out that there was supposed to be such an idea-drier in the last period of action against this. That's not right. There was a gift package in the budget procedure last year by establishing, among other things: a bioeconomy centre in the interior, on Hamar, something to the right did not take the chance of, and called it wasted with resources. It's going backwards into a future where we need green bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e593	This probably sounds obvious, but it is too important not to be said. Women and men have equal value, regardless of gender. Women and men shall have equal opportunities to participate in society and influence societal development both formally and in practice. Equality is therefore a question of human rights and of human dignity. It is not okay for girls and boys to experience different opportunities either in Norway or internationally. In Norway, we have come a long way towards equality between women and men, but we must not believe that we are on target. The challenges of equality both in Norway and internationally are great, and we have a responsibility, not least as politicians, to be aware of this. It's not possible to close your eyes to that, close your eyes to the big equality challenges we're facing. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse, we know that women, and also some men, are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have positions of leadership. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We know that in many countries it's much less likely that you're born at all, you get education, work and a good life if you're a girl, than if you're a boy. It's not supposed to say that this is going to take care of itself. We need to use policy tools to solve the gender equality challenges. I think that's right and absolutely necessary. Equality and equivalency are about whether we're born as boys or girls, we're going to have the same rights and the same opportunities. I work with both family and gender policies, and it is quite obvious that good equality policies are linked to good family policies. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to enable parents to combine family life and working life. The right to work and not to choose between family and work has been central to women’s struggle, and is an important asset in today’s Norway. Therefore, good arrangements are so important, such as flexible parental leave, increased cash support, unpaid pension provision, the right to be at home with sick children, breast-feeding and good-quality kindergartens and good-manning. The Christian People's Party will continue to work for a good and active gender equality policy in good combination with a strong and good family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e604	The Labour Party has ambitions on behalf of Norway. The working party shall succeed in strengthening, not weakening, the Community solutions. We're going to ring around the Norwegian model and not hollow it out. We're going to succeed in getting a fairer tax policy, not a one-billion-dollar policy. kr for the fifty richest and small money for ordinary people. The Labour Party will succeed in bringing down unemployment with a policy that works, and we will succeed in developing a sound international policy. We will meet challenges with effective solutions – action packages that address the challenges precisely, guarantee schemes, wage subsidies, permitting schemes, gender equality policies. I have met people in South Africa who do not trust the policy that is now being pursued. I have even met right-wing voters who are asking the Workers' Party to clean up the mess of this government. And a former Right-Rapporteur even gave the government a real knockout when it came to boxing. I've met right-wing people who have resigned from the party because of school policy. And I have friends and family members who have lost their jobs, who are approaching the two-year limit for daily allowances. They're seriously worried. They've had two years off. It's not urgent. It's long, and it hasn't been solved by this government. More than 15 pst. men aged 25 to 49 years are completely unemployed in West Agder. That's an increase of 29 pst. from last year. It is not so strange that I have met trust-elected and company managers who absolutely do not ask for tax cuts to the richest, but for work and measures that work. This government does not create jobs and delivered a package of measures that did not happen to South Africa. Working for all is the most important tool for developing the welfare state. So when the representative of Greece in this room says “people’s labour” – yes, I think it was three or four times yesterday – while we have 135,000 unemployed, and who at the same time say it’s amazing that the tax is distributed so that the richest get cut into the tax equivalent to the livelihood of 2,000 common workers, and when the Prime Minister says we have to live with some differences, it shows the Right’s true face. For the Right, ordinary workers are a tool in the free functioning of capital. The Workers' Party will have public hospitals that work well. The director of the Southern Hospital is worried about the economy. The framework budgets are strutting more and more, was the message. And the Workers' Party will have a society that takes equality seriously, that actually equals and does not send the wife back to the kitchen bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e619	Norway is the world’s best country to live and live in, measured by the United Nations living conditions index, HDI. It is based, inter alia, on: factors such as income, education, health, life expectancy, economy and equality. We all want to be good. For various reasons, however, individuals may find it difficult to find their place and be included in society. It may be due to high stress, traumatic childhood or adult experience. Regardless of the reason for the individual’s standing outside a community, the aim of the Left’s policy is to include it in the community. Early intervention and early intervention are then important. To achieve this goal, we are all dependent on people who understand people and who are able to facilitate the growth and development of individuals and society for the rest. Then education will have meaning at all stages. In Nord-Trøndelag we have several important educational institutions. We want to strengthen these, for example. by establishing a bachelor's degree in prehospital services. It will strengthen health care and preparedness in the districts. Inclusion is also about taking care of history and minorities in Norway. It is good that Saemien Sijte, the Southern Sami Museum at Snåsa, is now granted money for 2017. But to realise the potential, more is needed. Green growth, globally and nationally, will lead to new types of work. The way in which current work is done will change, and some types of work will disappear. Those changes should be supported by a system of social protection and security. It is not always easy to include environment in the assessment of all these choices, and often it is not easy to know what is the greenest option. Therefore, the Left will ensure that choosing environmentally friendly is always the easiest and most profitable. Global warming is the greatest threat to humanity. The left, through political will, action and innovation, wants a rapid reduction in climate change emissions and to make Norway a leading nation in renewable energy and climate technologies. For example, modernisation of the Trander Railway will save the environment for 12 300 tonnes of CO 2 per year. Other gains are increased employment and reduced travel time, which stimulate housing in rural areas as well. Another important issue at Nord-Trøndelag is the new agreements for air services at Rørvik airport and Namsos airport. It is important that they are consistent with the needs of the region for good and efficient communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e638	Yesterday, Solvik-Olsen boasted of what he has done in the field of transport, among other things. the urban environment packages. At the same time, he called ‘customs walls’ around cities as barriering as bad roads. It was an interesting connection, especially for us who live in the area of the so-called Busker suburb – Lier, Drammen, Lower and Upper Eiker. Locally we would have had with Kongsberg, but the council said no for some reason. The bush resort requires bombs, the state council has said that. The debate is therefore high on where to stand the new bombs in the Dramens area, not only on the city border, what Solvik-Olsen calls a customs wall, but also on what he would probably call internal economic walls. The alarming thing is that this is happening at the direction of the Party Council. For all the world, the Bush urban package shows that ‘No tolls’ are only a solid election blow, not just in 2013. No, then, before the municipal elections in 2015, Solvik-Olsen was on a trip with the group leader of the Progress Party in the Drammen, and there was no way for state traffic crowns to dominate the Drammens area, not only for planned projects, but also for new ones as a result of a new hospital on the border with Lier, in the middle of one of the busiest traffic nodes in the Drammens area. With this story, the Right and Advance Party locally 13 years ago put an effective stop to bomb financing of the route between E134 and Drammen. The promotion party's alternative to the bomb was not state money. There was no way. New road to Svelvik, paid by the state, went into the draw-suck. The two roads were to be completed for the longest time, but now they are pushing ahead, more expensive than before, thanks to the Right and Advance Party. Solvik-Olsen has no money to pay, so now the Svelvikweg also has to be paid with a bomb. And as if that were not enough, the Council of State now requires that the E134 extended to four fields and the necessary upgrading of the Holmen bridges against the Drammen port also be paid with tolls. Never then do we have a bigger gap between words and actions. Nevertheless, the Progress Party locally continues to disseminate incorrect information. They say that tolls stink, try to stick them to anyone but themselves and trick people into thinking that they can get in bags and bags. In that perspective, Solvik-Olsen came with a very perceptive statement in the Storting yesterday. He's never going to suggest cutting tolls that also go to public traffic, and they're going to in the Busker City. In September, the State Council attacked the Labour Party's local group leader, who has only pointed out the elementary fact that more state money is less tolling – not one word from the government council, since the Busher urban package comes with a full bomb package, without a crown in a discount, in contravention of what his own group leader claims. Isn't Solvik-Olsen talking to its local party traps, or is it agreed to have double communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e649	This government is leading a policy of increasing inequality, in the labour market, between the poor and the rich and between the city and the country. The working party wants to move in a different direction. We focus on the community, that everyone should have a job to go to, and that we should have a society of little differences, that gives equal opportunities for everyone. Unemployment is now up to 139 000. The proportion of the population employed has not been so low in 20 years, and the government's main project, namely tax cuts of 20 billion. kr, mainly for the richest, doesn't work. The availability of the South-West is now high in record terms. In the South, the total number of people available is 4.2 pst. in Agder and 3.9 pst. in Kristiansand. We see a government if measures don't work. I'll give you an example. Over the last three years, the Labour Party has proposed to allocate 865 million. kr more in regional development funds than the government. For Agder, it would have been $40 million. kr, such as: would have benefited clusters like NODE in the South. In the 2016 budget, the government set 20 million. kr in so-called conversion funds for all municipalities along the coast, from East Agder to More and Romesdal. Our leading business clusters and business environments, GCE NODE, GCE Subsea and GCE Blue Maritime, which together represent 400 companies in transition, cooperated on two applications under this scheme that could have a major impact on industrial conversion. As the scheme was subsequently found to be very bureaucratic and inconclusive, these environments chose to withdraw the application. This must be a declaration of failure for the government's policy. The measures for conversion are not working. Another case also concerns the sale of Norway. In the Right Programme, it is now being called upon to privatise Statkraft, and in the renewable states of Agder, where Statekraft is the largest player, we will not. I want to remind you that we manage these resources on behalf of the community. This government has also sent amendments to concession, land and land laws to be consulted. Agder is among the countries in the country that have many small uses, where this will be worst. The proposal will result in a situation other than the families that eventually own the farm, and housing in the districts is debilitated by the takeover of the wealthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e662	I take the floor to explain some of the proposals that have been made by the Central Party in the context of the debate on the throne. In particular, it concerns the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, which concerns the discussion of further work on the so-called police reform. Now there's an extensive process of shutting down the janitor's office all over the country, and we see that there are huge protests in many parts of the country, against the process, the way it's being carried out, the urgency you're having to implement it, but it's also seaworthy to the content, that's a massive closure of the janitor's office. In Troms and Finnmark, there are strong reactions in the way it happens. In Telemark there are strong reactions, in Agder there are strong reactions, and in Sogn and Fjordane there are strong reactions. And I've noticed that, among other things. The rapporteurs of the Left in Fjaler and Eid are very critical of the way this is being implemented. They are supported by their representative Sveinung Rotevatn, but the question is whether he will also support in Stortinget that one should change the process, or whether he will only keep his county and its rapporteurs with good talk. There is no doubt that local knowledge and prevention are being harmed by the massive closure of the county offices that are now being proposed throughout the country, and the bulk of the population just cannot close their eyes to this and hope that it will pass. Nor is it sustainable that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who make some demands on how the process should proceed, now just shift responsibility away and say that this should be done in the individual police districts. For this reason, the Centre Party has today proposed that the government postpone the consultation deadlines, so that municipalities can make a real contribution and feel like participants in the process, and that they can also review the fact that the steering groups actually work in the way that the Storting has provided for them to work on. The central party also proposes that a case be submitted to the Stortinget regarding the amount of expenditure incurred by the municipalities, the counties and the state in connection with the municipal reform. It is updated that the government's representatives, most recently the Prime Minister, today say that it is not the local elected representatives who decide this, it is the Stortingen who will decide it. Then you have to ask yourself why every day one initiates so extensive local processes with as many referenda as one did, and one must also be able to ask himself how much costs this has incurred in individual municipalities and counties in implementing these local processes. The Stortinget should be given an overview of this, not least to see if it has also gone beyond the services it should have locally and regionally. Therefore, in addition to a proposal on border control and a proposal to follow up on the soil protection strategy adopted in Stortinget, the Central Party is also promoting a proposal to that effect and to provide information on it. With that, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e675	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e680	It has been a strange experience to follow this debate over two days and hear the constant negative rhetoric from the red-green side. The image of government policy and the development of Norway is difficult to recognise. But even if you repeat and repeat the same conjectures, the image doesn't become any more true for that reason. Particularly alarming are the views of the Central Party on international cooperation and trade – no to the EEA, no to WTO-driven trade processes. There are negative attitudes towards international trade in general, which we know have been an essential part of the basis for our prosperity development and for reducing extreme poverty globally. The lot of the centre also repeats the plans to notify Norway out of the EEA. I don't think I have any particular reverberation in the Workers' Party either. What the EU and the EEA Agreement mean for Norwegian value creation and welfare cannot be overestimated. Almost 80 pst. of our exports go to the EU, and the agreement gives us duty-free market access to over 30 countries. The EU is Norway’s main export market for fish and fish products. In 2015, it accounted for approximately 50 billion EU exports. kr. However, the EEA Agreement is about something in addition to market access – cooperation on innovation and research in the EU is also important for the transition to the Norwegian economy. This is also going to play the Center game. It is gambling with Norwegian business interests, workplaces and well-being, for cooperation ensures Norway. Many of the challenges facing Norway and the international community require more cooperation, more cohesion and more solidarity, not less, if these problems are to be solved – such as climate challenges and not least security policy, in the fight against terrorism and extremism, in the fight for the universal values on which we build our society. Europe and the EU are an essential part of our security policy anchoring. We share a common value base. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law are values that are under pressure. For this reason, our government is pursuing an offensive European policy in which Norway is to contribute as part of the solution, for the lack of management of the situation in Europe, the risk of increased protectionism, polarisation and fragmentation could have consequences for Norway. This is the interaction between what we do in Norway, in cooperation with the Nordic countries and with the rest of Europe, which ensures Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e689	The Nordic region is rich in natural resources – the fish in the sea, the minerals in the mountains and the water in the footfalls. There is a long tradition in Norway that resources should be allocated to the community. The Workers' Party is the guarantor that fish resources will continue to belong to the people in the future. We want Norway to become an attractive country to operate mineral activities in – we have a varied geology with high potential for mineral production – and we want to ensure continued state ownership of hydropower. This has ensured the Community's significant revenues for many generations. In order to ensure good management of natural resources, forward-looking politicians have before us established state companies to ensure that the profits do not fall to the few but to the community. We now have a government that in the treatment of the ownership message offered massive sales of Norwegian companies, and now the government parties are creating uncertainty again about the future ownership of Statkraft. State power is Norway’s largest power producer and the leading player in the renewable energy market in Europe. The right has re-examined the proposal to sub-privatise Statkraft in its programme proposal. The proposal is not based on any economic or long-term logic, but is purely ideological. Right wants to sell in as many state establishments as possible. And in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, we can read that they have «no counter-respect to private ownership of power plants/power companies, where appropriate». The purpose of the government parties is to turn economic power from the state to private hands. Nordic countries, which are rich in resources, but poor in investors, need state-owned companies that make investments and create jobs across the country. In North Norway, the break-up of the government parties falls. Is it the people who don't understand Sandberg, Meland, Astrup and Hauglie, or is it the Right Party and the Advance Party that don't understand the Nordics? We have a government that does not take seriously that there are 139 000 unemployed today, and there are no new jobs created. Such a government doesn't deserve people's trust. A government that creates uncertainty about the future of both the participant law and the fish-sales law, which means that we risk putting ourselves in a situation where we no longer have control of our fishing resources, does not deserve people's trust. A government that stops the exploration program to monitor and increase knowledge of mineral resources in the mountains, which would contribute to increased value creation and new jobs in the north, does not deserve people's trust. A government that wants a massive sale of Norwegian companies that has secured income to the community for generations does not deserve people's trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e705	In this debate, the Labour Party is trying to create a story of history that I do not fully recognize. It will include, among others: claimed that no government has ever had a better starting point than when we took over, but there is a truth that must be taken with some pinch of salt. We took over a huge maintenance run in road, rail and municipal construction, 5 500 people in queues and waited for a municipality to be integrated into, the rowing queues tripled to 1 100 people, and the number of people in health queues increased from 200,000 to 280 000 in the eight years of red-green driving. This, combined with a massive influx of asylum and an oil price that went from an average price of $105 barrel in 2014 to being $29 in January this year, with subsequent high unemployment, has marked these three years. Was this really the best starting point? I mean it was a bad starting point, and that's because the red-green lot is to grab hold when they had the opportunity. There is almost no other government that has had a better starting point than the red-green government, and in that period everyone knew that Norwegian economy was vulnerable, but the red-green – which had a pure majority and could carry out exactly what they wanted – ignored the warnings, and they made the Norwegian economy increasingly oil dependent in the period 2005–2013. Unfortunately, the warnings became reality, and while the red-green government felt that the oil price increased by over 200 pst. from December 2008 to April 2011, it is now up to the Right-Fremskritsparti government to manage Norwegian economy safely through a rough low-oil waters. We have accepted the challenge, and in many areas we are now on the right track. This summer I had the pleasure of being with the Prime Minister on a visit to the company Malm Orstad at Klepp, who previously only supplied the oil industry. Many companies did as they did, they depended on just delivering to one industry, and they became very vulnerable when the oil price fell. Today they have taken hold and have more legs to stand on, and they also deliver to both fisheries, aquaculture and the defence industry. It's a necessary conversion, but it takes time. In September, the finance minister and I were visiting Sparebank 1 SR-Bank, who presented the economic survey survey. It shows increased optimism in the West. Still, it's too early to lift the flag, but we now see a lot of positive signals. Recently, there was also a large business survey in Stavanger among 550 companies that showed that several business owners now believe in increased profitability, better turnover and more employees in the coming year. On my many company visits, I always challenge the companies on what kind of grip must be taken to ensure growth and development, and the answer that always goes on is better infrastructure and lower costs. Tax havens in jobs and large investments in infrastructure are part of the recipe to succeed in the necessary transformation that the country is undergoing, and there is a grip that the Progress Party in the government has helped us to do, do and continue to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e722	Norway needs more jobs to contribute to the State budget and not to the State budget. We need jobs that contribute to value creation and long-term transformation. At the same time, we have a clear objective of reducing emissions and energy being a scarcity factor. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has strengthened, not deprived, the industrial tool, which enables Hydro to now build flowing new aluminium power plant on Karmøy. This is precisely why this government has invested heavily in research and development. By the end of 2016, the Climate Technology Fund has increased to 62.75 billion. NOK 12,75 billion. Kr in addition to what Stortinget agreed to in the climate agreement. The eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway has increased to more than 500 million. kr, and Enova was added to SEK 2,3 billion. kr in 2016. These arrangements, together with, inter alia: TaxFUNN and the Research Council have contributed to a large-scale commitment to new technological solutions that will reduce emissions and provide more secure jobs. Powel in Trondheim is now developing new technologies for monitoring water pipelines with good environmental technology support and the Research Council. It provides more jobs in Trondheim and new technologies that benefit other countries as well. The Eco-Technology Scheme and the Risk Loans from Innovation Norway contribute to the development of Ocean Farming in Fröya by developing new breeding pains that can be used far and deep at sea. We will then have reduced the loop cover and other environmental pressures, which means that one of our most important export industries becomes more sustainable. When Enova provides support for battery operation and shore-side electricity for high-speed routes, we get greener shipping and a more sustainable tourist industry. This provides more and more secure jobs in the districts. Our companies are working hard and are very interested in and capable of innovation and development. That's where the workplaces and the values are created. Our job as politicians is to facilitate jobs. We're not going to and can't adopt them. That is why we are making great efforts to build new and maintaining roads and railways so that people and goods can move quickly and safely. With a Therefore, this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has taken no rest cuts, in the higher education and university sectors. It is knowledge, innovation and hard work that will contribute to the long-term transformation and value creation we need to build this good country further. We don't need any more regulations, taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e735	It is said that all good things are three, so that's why: Three years have passed since I first stood here, three years have passed since the Progress Party joined Right into Government, and three years have passed since the Advance Party together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party started working on the bet of time on health and care. When I look back now, it is with pride that I can say that we keep words, and I sincerely hope this government will have four new years to continue the work of developing the patient's healthcare and investing in the people of this country. We do that through big messages and action plans, through rights and other changes to the law, by giving power back to patients and relatives, and by looking at the patient as a whole and simplifying the patient's everyday life. We have given a historic promise to those people and their families who are struggling with drug addiction and mental disorders. We have reintroduced the golden rule after the red-greens thought it had played out its role. We strengthen child health services by facilitating the construction of a health centre and school health service, psychological services and mental health services in schools. We have requirements for police clearance and the right to a sick home in the care of the elderly. Yes, there is so much good done in the health field from today's government that my measured three minutes do not make room to mention everything. It is particularly important to emphasise that we have started reforming health and care services from one we know best-position to take as a starting point what the patient himself wants, wants and believes. Look at the patient’s eyes – no decisions will be made about me without me. It concerns the individual patient, and it concerns the overall level of the system. The representative of the Trettebergstuen of the Workers' Party spoke from this pulpit yesterday. One should be careful to say that co-representatives have not attended the class, but she concluded that during the three years mentioned, no new and better solutions have been put forward, and that the government does not listen to either ordinary people or professionals. She about it, but on our watch, patients, users and relatives are as important as professionals. The representative of Trettebergstuen may not have found that we have introduced the right to user-driven personal assistance, health care standards in hospitals, reinforced family support, enhanced the legal security of patients in mental health protection, introduced the package course for cancer, stroke and mental health, the package course that, through fine logistics, provides health care together so that the waiting time from the first suspicion of illness to treatment is short from months and in some cases years to weeks. Let me conclude by saying that Norwegian health services and patients deserve in particular that today's government continues to govern this country even after the election next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e750	Yesterday it was mentioned from the pulpit that it is important to have a project if you are to be a politician. Well, for me it's clear that this government has had three major projects: to make the rich richer, to sell our inheritance silver, and to centralize, centralize and centralize. I look with great concern at the signals this government sends to the districts on a case-by-case basis. It is absolutely consistent that the small loses while the big win. I can mention in fleng: e.g. the changed income system of the government to the municipalities, which covers many small municipalities and gives to the large, agricultural minister's goal that large use should be at the expense of small ones, and the local reform and regional reform, both of which lack a vision of what the government really wants with fewer units in addition to the main argument that bigger is always better. It is important that we constantly consider how the sum of different decisions turns out. The Labour Party does not believe that the districts should remain as winners every time, nor that they should come out as losers every time. In Namdalen, politicians are now working with the consequences of the 110-central in Namsos moving to Trondheim. The move is the result of a decision taken in connection with the close police reform to co-locate emergency situations in order to build a stronger professional environment. We agree that is important. But Trondheim has a great new 110-central and has therefore applied for permission to use these premises instead of moving the 110-central into the police. What happens if Trondheim accepts this application? Then all of a sudden we have a situation where the whole point of laying down the center of Namsos is gone. The purpose of the store was not to place the floors in the same city, but to co-locate in the same building. If this doesn't happen in Trøndelag, why don't you just keep the central office in Namsos? Or is this just another attempt at centralisation — this time camouflaged as a response to better preparedness? It's scary politics to bottle up districts for positions of competence. Strong districts are essential for both the green and the blue shifts. But the pace of innovation in business is not big enough when it's hard to recruit the wisest minds. The government’s district policy creates major differences between the city and the district. We don't deserve that. We are stronger when the whole country stands together and cities and districts move in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e765	The most disturbing thing about this debate is that we have a government that will present itself as responsible but still cannot take the 139 000 unemployed seriously. Last year the government weakened the work environment law, so that it is now possible to temporarily assign people even if the job is permanent. Now we see the consequences. Over a year, 28,000 more were temporarily added. When we see this together with the fact that on the Right and the Advance Party's Watch is not created a single job, we see that we got it right. There will be no more jobs, there will be only more temporary jobs. With the government's well-being, we get a new social class of workers without a permanent job, without professional pride and without security. They have short-term contracts or they're ringers, they're freelancers, or they're job-seeking migrants. In the past, we were talking about a layman's society where people stood by. Today they are waiting for the next assignment with their mobile phone. The pressure on organised labour is increasing every day. Temporarily added is only the top of the iceberg. The manning industry that operates with contracts where people do not have income between the assignment, undermines pay and working conditions and pushes even more out of fixed addition relationships. Nor will the government do anything about this. It's about political will. The Labour Party will renew and strengthen the Work Environment Act in order to ensure safety at work and safety at work. Making fixed positions temporary is an effective response to professional organisation, which in turn weakens the level of pay in industries with strong competition for work. So the softening effect is going to be double. Not only to stand alone, but also the lack of a decent and secure economy will make the employee more vulnerable to a take it or leave it. The right-hand side's honorary word in the debate on working life, softening, is really just an inconvenient euphemism for a conscious development towards a society with greater differences. Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, refused to speak at the end of May in order to increase the differences between people in Norway, despite the fact that the SSB's own figures are clear and clear. In retrospect, she has been forced to dement her own claims. She now admits, reluctantly, to written questions from the Storting, that there was a certain tendency to increase income differences. The big question is, does this mean that the Progress Party does not follow in the hour when it comes to economic development? Or does it really mean that fighting against increased differences in society is not particularly important for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e783	When the Prime Minister began his speech today, I was hoping for a miracle for a little while. She started by saying that it was a serious problem in a country like the United States that the richest were overthrown, that the poor became poorer, that the middle class was lagging behind, and that this created tensions in society that were dangerous. Yeah, that's right. It's a result of politics, it's very similar to the policy of today's government in Norway. The OECD has advised Norway to increase taxes on higher revenues, to increase property taxes, to increase property taxes and to increase transfers to them with the lowest income. It will create greater equality, more justice, more growth and higher employment. Maybe the government should listen to that a little bit. Here – like there – you try to trick people into thinking that there is something called a trickle-down effect, that is, these gifts to the rich are going to run down to the poor and become jobs. We see the fasitite, it doesn't get like that, it didn't get like that, it doesn't get like that, it doesn't get like that. You don't even forget to get rid of poor families of children, the ones with the lowest disability, it's just those who get the need-tested child supplement. They're going to be taken from thousands of dollars so that, as the Prime Minister has just said, they're going to get an incentive to work. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Labour, who is sitting here: have more people been working late after these changes were made? No, it doesn't, because this isn't about people not wanting to work. First of all, people are sick and disabled, and second, about a working life that doesn't want them. In addition, they have gained from this government a more unsafe working life, where the rate of rotation and the consumption of workers is higher. It is not a working life in Norway that is crying out for people with disabilities, are sick and may have a working capacity of 20 pst. That's not the reality. These people get poor, they get sicker, and they get farther away from work, where they might have gotten together a little bit if they had enough to live off. I've talked to Kirsti who has four children and is paralyzed after the pelvic solution. She has four children and has been on Nav time and time again and asked for a job, but there is no job to get, not even a job interview. But she's going to be $6,000 poorer every month. This only creates differences, ill health and poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e796	Under this government, three out of four new jobs are created in the public sector. Now there is nothing wrong with jobs in the public sector, but there should be jobs in the production of services: nurses, health workers, pre-school teachers, teachers, railway agents and at all people in daily service production. But that's not what's happening. Many of the jobs created in the public sector come because new large administrative units are being built. That is why I am going to use my measured speaking time to talk about a reform which unfortunately goes a little under the radar compared to all the other reforms on which the public spends time and effort, namely the so-called railway reform – the railway reform that was knocked through in record time in Stortinget last spring and which is going to lead to a fragmentation and privatisation of the railways that we have never seen in Norway before. I'm just following job advertisements for fun, and I'm now seeing all the people who are being advertised in administrative functions to deal with the new railway reform. It's scary how money use is now. Why is this done? Because it's an ideological project by the government. It is not necessary to do so in order to get a better railway, because there are good times for the railways in Norway. The NSB has strong passenger growth, they have never carried more passengers, and the NSB delivers historically good annual results. The reason for that is quite simple, that's because the last ten years have been significantly invested on Norwegian railway. It is built much more modern double-track railway, there are many more new trains purchased, and it is really quite simple: When you build more railways and buy new trains, you also get more passengers. Between Lillestrom and Asker trains now leave every 10 minutes, of course there will be several passengers of this type. Instead, we get privatization and fragmentation, we get a new railway directorate, we get a new infrastructure company – listen to the great word: infrastructure company – we get a new material company, we get a new maintenance company, and we get a new ticketing company. This costs a tremendous amount of money, money that you should have used instead to build more railways and buy new trains. So there's a lot of people in the administration at the top, and then the foot people in the NSB are said to be up. This is simply unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e805	Every year more than 30,000 cancers occur in Norway and cases of cancer continue to increase. When we know that approx. 30 pst. of all disease-related deaths in the country are caused by cancer, we need to bet. The government prioritises improved cancer treatment and introduced package pathways for cancer in 2016. This provides increased predictability and safety for patients and their dependants in a patient course of suspected cancer. Multi-disciplinary diagnostic centres are established in all health regions, ensuring good user involvement. Many patients come with very good feedback. They finally feel like they're being taken seriously. Several areas of action in health care in the future are being added. New national particle therapy facility is planned in 2017. This technology helps to reduce long-term damage and side effects after traditional radiation treatment. With a new PET centre at the University Hospital in North Norway, we are given the opportunity to further invest in better cancer diagnostics. Norway spends a total of 9 billion. kr for research into health every year. Three new research programmes have been established in the Norwegian Research Council on treatment, diagnosis and rehabilitation. We know that research benefits patients. It is gratifying that Norway is developing some of the most promising and targeted cancer drugs in the world. Immunotherapy stimulates the patient’s own immune system to attack the cancer cells. In this way, you can tailor the treatment for each patient. Immunotherapy has recently been released to lung cancer patients in Norway. We need to invest even more in medical research to meet the challenges of the future. We need new technology and better time for researchers and health professionals to actually do the job they're there to do. Today’s funding system means that researchers use up to 60 pst. of their working time to apply for work and payroll funds — valuable time to go to research disappears. It might be time to discuss a new funding model. I wonder: The Norwegian state pays 78 pst. the cost of exploration for Norwegian-socket oil companies. What about creating an equivalent solution to explore new and better medicines? Ultimately, patients benefit from research through new and improved medicines and treatment. It's socio-economically profitable to get people healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e824	The debate on the throne is considered to be one of the most important debates in Stortinget. This could be a debate with dynamics, new proposals and real discussions. It has not been, and it must be the responsibility of the largest opposition party. The representative, representing the Workers' Party, has occupied the interlocutory with mass-produced repetitions representing reality. The attacks are expected to happen, but I didn't think our honored competitors were supposed to be just for their own proposals and solutions. The mass-copied posts are bombarded roughly – that is the risk when they are written before hearing the debate – because the population sees that the policy is working. Health cows are going down. The quality of school is getting better. Roads and railways are built and maintained at a pace we have never seen before. Preparedness is strengthened. The business community has a framework to deal with the conversion that the oil price shock has required. Not only does the Workers' Party fail in the criticism, they, as usual, also bog roughly when they try to calculate. They want to send an unknown tax bill to all of us. It is in many tens of billions of classes, but they don't want – or can't – to say how big it will be. We heard the party leader of the Workers' Party say that tax legislation does not provide more jobs, while on the Labour Party's website the opposite is true. The website-Work Party and Stortings-Work Party do not fully agree with themselves. I'm conservative. Maybe that's why I miss the old Workers' Party – what was responsible and that could count. Furthermore, there have been repeated attacks that individuals and businesses support the Right and that these now in exchange for the policies they want. The right, like the Labour Party, receives contributions from many who want this to lead to the success of the positioning process and then implement the policy they have said to pursue. This is completely open, and it's quite common. Business leaders and business owners want framework conditions that enable them to secure existing jobs and create new ones. There is the best policy on the right – which is at least partly agreed by the Webpage Working Party. The big difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party is that the Right accepts the support in all openness in implementing the policy we have told us to pursue. On the other hand, the Workers' Party shall acknowledge the support of its contributors with a fixed place in the Central Board and around the meeting tables in the enclosed rooms. In the Right's organization you can't buy a place. It is a product of the Workers' Party that sells alone. The red-greens dreamt away in the money shower and let us take responsibility for the conversion. We'll take that responsibility. We'll secure Norway. We provide care for those who need it. We need to secure jobs and facilitate the creation of new ones, we need to increase the investment in education and research, and we need to provide security in everyday life. Repetitions of pre-produced double communication are an exercise that is obviously taken advantage of in the Working Party. I heard someone earlier in the debate called it cheap rhetoric. I don't think it's rhetoric. In that case, only cheap.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e837	In the debate on taxes on wealth, it seems that the Workers' Party has forgotten something essential – it is that values must be created before they can be used. After all, lucrative jobs help us to employ more teachers, policemen, nurses, psychologists, and doctors. Then it is almost strange that the Workers' Party comes up with some sort of underlying criticism against the fact that under this government there are many policemen, teachers and nurses employed, just jobs in the public sector. But I am glad that the representative Myrli made a comment that there is nothing wrong with it. The taxes on wealth are very unfavourable for small companies with less good results and liquidity. We've seen examples that it could mean the hook at the door of companies that should really be viable. The taxes on wealth are anti-fouling. New-born companies are taxed because they create values even if they have not yet earned income. An example of this is technology enterprises. They have heavy investment costs early, revenue will only be later. Health and well-being is a growing industry with a high potential for employment growth and a high export potential. In total, this industry exported more than 20 billion. kr in 2015 and invested more than 2,5 billion annually. kr in research activity in industry. To get the industry to fly, it's important that it gets good framework conditions. The government therefore invests heavily in innovation, research and infrastructure, precisely to contribute to growth. I simply cannot grasp what the Workers' Party will do to preserve Norwegian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. In Drammen lies Norway's oldest family-run brewery, Aass Bryggeri. The daily manager, Christian Aass, said to Today's Business in 2013: ‘Should we be an actor in the future, we need to invest and those investments become more difficult with the property tax.’ The competitor Ringnes Brewery, with its foreign owners, does not have to worry about property taxes. The company is owned by Carlsberg Group, the world's largest brewer, who delivers the same goods as Aass Brewery, but they have different framework conditions. If we earn money, we're going to pay taxes, but taxes on working capital are something that corporate owners have to pay regardless of whether the company is doing well or bad. We are not supposed to punish the Norwegian industry. Increased differences are evened out in a school where everyone learns to read, calculate, and write. There are good teachers trained, but to that we simply have to have income from the state. We have to create values before we can use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e857	After the signature and representative Trine Skei Grande spoke yesterday, the representative Martin Kolberg took the word to boast of our posts. That was nice. In the speeches, we are talking about the fear policy that is now taking place in many Western countries, and the populism that attacks trade agreements, immigration and international relations. However, the representative Kolberg challenges us directly and hard on how the Left could warn against such trends and at the same time cooperate with the Progress Party in government. I have no need to defend the Progress Party, and I agree that the party stands for a view of immigration that coincides with the trend I warn against in my post. The left has opposed the position, we stand for a humanitarian line in refugee policy. But to our disappointment, we have seen that it is precisely the representative of Kolberg and the rest of the Labour Party who have been acting as a support party for the Progress Party in immigration policy in the last few years, together with their friends in the Centre Party, who can hardly get enough tightening of immigration policy. Speaking of the Central Party: When I warn against populist politicians who have put important trade agreements at stake, it should be enough to refer to today's main headline in today's Business. So the party that the Labour Party would like to have into the government says that there is a demand from a new red-green government to renegotiate the EEA Agreement and follow the United Kingdom in the fight against European integration. We are talking here about the second most important agreement for Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens, which will thus be at risk of a new red-green government. I see that the Labour Party's leader is in the hall. Is the Workers' Party willing to negotiate the EEA Agreement? He should answer that question. I would also like to say that if one sees these trends I warn against in my post, in the context of my post, the central part is probably the strongest exponent for those in Norwegian policy. But my point with the post and my point of replying to Mr Kolberg's representative is not to criticise the red-green Party for trade policy or the Progress Party for immigration policy; it is to say that now are illiberal trends in emergence in many countries and in many parties. It's a trend that we should work against with a liberal mindset and an international perspective, because the growth and prosperity we've achieved in the last half century in Norway and in other countries, has just come from open borders for people, for goods, for services and for capital. The Labour Party uses to say that we can achieve more together than alone – that is also true of nations – and that if the representative of Kolberg and the Labour Party will join with the Left in defending liberal and humanitarian values and globalisation, I am very pleased about that in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e868	The government says in the throne that it wants to create growth throughout the country. It is shown that in order to increase value creation, we need more bones to stand on and develop new jobs. I could not have agreed more. However, the question is whether this is a signal of a reassessment of the government's lack of regional policy commitment so far. I'm very excited about how the signals about investing in value creation across the country materialize in the state budget when it comes. Public sector signals as a contributor to private sector conversion and revaluation also require a shift in budgetary policy. We can no longer cut dramatically into food and targeted measures to increase value creation in districts, as has been the case in recent years. The social development role of county councils is underlined in the government's own communication on the role, structure and tasks of new elected regions. The tasks of the county councils for the organisation of industrial development and for the regional research environment are also highlighted. It has so far been solved by the government. The business development facilitation function is presented as a main task while removing the instruments. Over the last three years, the government has removed one third of the budget resources for regional development in the counties. 423 million. kr has gone so far. If the government is to live up to its signals through the throne, this money and more will have to be in place in the budget for 2017. The center party is set up, I can promise. In the course of this year's budgetary procedure, we proposed 500 million. kr more in regional development funds. That proposal is to be repeated in the 2017 budget. On the part of the government, it is said that investing in trade is more important than investing in business development. They have the right to give greater emphasis to transport in rural policy, but it cannot replace the efforts of Innovation Norway, Siva, regional research funds, county councils and municipalities' targeted contributions to entrepreneurial activities and to the further development of the rural economy. Unfortunately, the government does not have much to point out in terms of appropriations for transportation either. By means of the administrative reform, the county councils were given a much greater responsibility through the transfer of roads. The government does not follow up with appropriations that are proportionate to the tasks. The municipal bill for 2017 states that the county municipalities will receive 300 million. SEK of a total frame growth of nearly 4 billion. kr. There are too few county councils struggling with maintenance delays. At the same time, the county has given priority to transport within its own framework. It's the state that's holding back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e885	The working party and SV talk loudly and clearly about increased differences, and I agree that it is not good. That's something we have to fight and work against. Therefore, I also believe that it is wasted to throw money after the rich. I'm going to be specific: today we use approx. 14 B.C.E. kr on child benefit, and this must obviously be an amount that can be better distributed. We in the Left want to have full-time free kindergarten for those with the lowest income and not least have free full-time in the SFO/AKS for those with the lowest income. The question from the Left is: Will the Workers' Party and the SV be able to participate in the paths that we can have differentiated rates for kindergarten and for SFO, where the richest pay more for kindergarten and AKS, which must be reasonable to expect, and those with the lowest income get this free – i.e. graduated payment? We want to spend that money filling the SFO with more content, which can also help balance differences, that you get homework, but also access to music, cultural schools, sports, etc. I think there must be a fancy way to do it. It is clear that we do not want to have all the differences balanced with the one measure, but there will be one of several measures that can help balance the differences. A big issue that is being dealt with here in Stortinget, which has been noted in particular outside the hall here, is the question that comes back all the time, about these clothes that Stortinget is now going to think about. It's the burka and the nikab that's up to discussion. It's pretty sad that this has become one of the biggest issues for our country out there in the media, and it's sad that the Storting is now going to make a decision on what people are going to do. That the Labour Party has fallen to the level that they are promoting similar proposals to those of the Progress Party, I think it is appropriate to disappoint more than me. And how many are there really going around with cans at school? Is there anyone at all who goes with the jar in the classroom and gets permission to do that? That we're going to adopt a national ban on this, says a little bit about the fact that we should have better things to do with our time as big ones than this. I am against the garment jar in general, not just at school, also in general, but I will not forbid it. Norway's international reputation is that we promote equality, we've spoken out about sexual minorities, we've promoted children's rights. This ban by Stortinget will, potentially, give Norway great international publicity, and it does not help to promote our nation's reputation. I think it's the wrong signal to send out, not only to the minority population, but also to the majority population, because this is to show how populist we want to be to attract some groups, although we know that this has no practical significance, because there are so few, a disappearing little part – if at all someone – that goes with it. I'm addressing my suggestion that I've been promoting. I think it is a little honorable for the Storting to adopt a ban on this, and I encourage the Labour Party representatives to vote in favour of the proposal I have tabled, that we should investigate this and look at the use of this, to see if it is necessary to prohibit this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e896	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e902	A large part of the debate is about parts of business that lose jobs, and that is important. But it's also right to keep focus on the parts that go well, and engage many with record pay. Many people are glad that the seafood is going, so it's susar. Norway has exported seafood for record strengths of 65 billion. kr at the end of the third quarter. That's an increase of 26 pst, or 13.2 billion. kr, measured against the same period last year. The value of Norwegian maritime food exports has doubled over the last six years. September exports alone are equal to the seafood exports for the whole of 1990, so there is every reason to congratulate the actors on this result. Parts of fishing industry wear with weak and poor profitability. Nevertheless, the opposition is not willing to modernise this part of the industry, but still wants to force it through delivery arrangements and coercive activity. Such a holding had never contributed to the fact that this important industry had come out of previous subsidisation. And yes, I agree with the Minister of Fisheries that this industry has the potential to become the new Norwegian oil, but it requires that we are willing to modernise the framework and remove political detail management, which at home is necessary further development. As mentioned by others in the debate, the two divisions of the Norwegian economy speeded up during the time of the red-green government. The signatures come from Sunnmøre, where we have a lot of family-owned businesses. Some go well, others wear hard. These local owners are met in everyday life at the store, at cultural events and otherwise in the local environment where we discuss common everyday challenges. But we also have companies with many added and large turnovers that are owned by foreign English lords. These meet or never see us, but we're not sure that they land on their private flights at the airport where the local owners travel on regular flights. The Labour Party therefore felt that we should treat the foreign owners with their private jet aircraft more easily than our local owners, who, through their local participation, take responsibility we never see from the foreign owners. The property tax is also part of Difference Norway, which frameworks Norwegian ownership, community and workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e916	This government also provides knowledge, research and innovation. If we are to further develop our cost-requiring Norwegian communities, it is important that we are the best in just these three areas, and we must be primarily international. We will not be if the left-hand side reaches with its detailed management from cradle to grave, where trust and reward to the good, Norwegian and drifty seem to be unknown thoughts, but one leans towards the International and sings: 'of taxes we are weighed down'. But I guess that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e919	I would like to say a little about one of the centralisation reforms that are currently taking place in Norway, the police reform. Today, there is a meeting in the West region where one has called together local politicians and those who were to be part of the Western Region Steering Group. I spoke to the chairman of the Gloppen on his way to Bergen today, and he did not feel that they had an impact on the process. On the contrary, he actually wondered what they put in that steering group to do. I can read from a press release that came today. It says that one strongly responds to the recommendation to reduce the geographical units from three to one, and from fourteen to three or four police service units in Sogn and Fjordane, and the result ‘there will be a strong centralisation of police resources and a reduction of preparedness and competence in much of Sogn and Fjordane’. Press release from the Center Party? – No, from the Left, who sat in this room and participated in the adoption of the police reform. So they say today that this is going the wrong way. This will be centralization. This will be a loss of competence. But Stortinget gave up power – from Stortinget to the Police Directorate when one adopted this reform. In the press release, challenge their Left Cooperation Party, Right and Christian People's Party, and the Labour Party to come on the path to say whether this is in line with what they want. Then my question becomes to the Left today: Will the Left vote for the Center Party's two proposals that have been presented today? What will the Left do to reverse a police reform such as Sveinung Rotevatn, following the NRK Sogn and Fjordne, and the spokesmen from Left Mein are completely wrong about what they've been doing in this room? From Troms there are strong objections to the reform. In Agder they say they have asked the Minister of Justice to postpone the deadline. They have not received it, and so we take it up in the hall today, and we have been told that the structure appears to be predestined by the police in some areas. We can't know if it's correct or wrong, whether it's predetermined, because we don't have access to the processes. The Storing has given up its power. Left, together with the Christian People's Party, which was promised local participation when they went back into the negotiations, must be horribly disappointed today at what is happening throughout Norway with centralization without the influence of local democracy. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have a responsibility in this matter; they can start by voting for their proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e936	Our Prime Minister said from this pulpit a little while ago that the government is working for a society that creates equal opportunities for everyone. Yesterday in this debate, I raised a matter that I am proud to see my government deliver, namely the Action Plan on Women's Rights and Gender Equality in Foreign and Development Policy, which commits the entire Norwegian Foreign Service to efforts to strengthen women's rights. The new sustainability goals that the world is now ending up with precisely placing equality at the centre of the international agenda. We know that in many countries of the world, discrimination against women prevents girls and women from living a good life. That's the international perspective. However, this is not the case in Norway. Then it will be small when the Labour Party in this debate tries to draw a picture that this government does not want a society where equality is basically a question of justice for each individual in the world and in Norway. Yesterday in this debate, I also had to note that the Workers' Party used its debates to suture, blackmail and try to make false representations of this government's policy, including in the field of equality, without presenting any new and good policy at its own expense. They are not concerned with equality and do nothing for it, were things that were said. You heard me! If it hadn't been unparliamentary, I would say – and add – that nonsense, but I'm not saying that, but I'm saying it's a real Trump claim. I just told you about the action plan on women's rights and equality in foreign and development policy, where women often have quite different situations than here, among others. lack of right to own health. But also at home, of course, this government is working after the star of leadership to achieve equality, equal rights and equal opportunities for all. In the Equal Opportunities Communication, this government focused its efforts on five areas: violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health and business and entrepreneurship. These are challenges we still need to focus on here at home, it's an ongoing work and a continuous focus for our government as well. But how does it explain, for example? The Labour Party that it was under their control that we got one of Europe's sexiest labour markets, where only 13 pst. of the top managers in private business are women and about 40 pst. of women working part-time? This set the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in motion measures to change, together with tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities in working life. Today we see that fewer women work part-time than when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e949	The opposition is talking a lot about increasing differences or what they call Difference Norway, but in practice they are not able to contribute to policies that reduce the underlying causes of the inequalities that arise. Nor will they be able to maintain a welfare society, which depends on strengthening growth capacity and thus ensuring the security and well-being of all in society. We took over a school where social divisions are inherited. We assumed responsibility for lifting the weakest out of poverty, from a government that had ambitions to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. The medicine the socialists prescribe will not solve the challenges we face. We went to the elections to create a society with opportunities for everyone. The country has been given a new course. We make sure that the students learn more at school. It balances social differences and gives our children equal opportunities to succeed. Never before have so many teachers received continuing training. We provide more children with access to kindergarten, and we provide lower parental benefit for families with low income. Knowledge is our most important weapon against poverty. If you can lift poor children out of a vicious circle, you can also create lasting well-being. In order for no students to go to school early, we put in a reinforced effort earlier in school. Together with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we sit among others. more than one teacher’s position between 1 and 4. steps. In order to prevent apostasy and to increase the presence and learning of children at school, we have introduced absenteeism in high school. We've increased the character requirement in mathematics to get into the teacher's education. We introduce a five-year master's education for primary school teachers. We have introduced skills requirements in primary schools to teach Norwegian, English and mathematics. Knowledge is also our main tool to create values and secure well-being. That is why we have made a strong – not one – effort in the higher education and university sectors. Where the previous government was allowed to make structural changes, we now ensure a renewal to build stronger and more robust professional environments at our universities and colleges, so that we stand stronger in international competition. It will contribute to the long-term transition of Norway. That is why we have also strengthened the instrument for industry, such as. Hydro is now building a flowing new aluminiumworks on Karmøy. And yesterday I was delighted with the news that researchers at the Chemical Institute at the University of Oslo were able to present groundbreaking research, namely that they have developed batteries that can charge a thousand times faster than normal batteries today. Such stories will give us more because the government has high ambitions for education, research and innovation. There are such things that enable us to further develop our welfare society, so that our children and grandchildren can also have the joy of growing up in one of the world's best countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e968	Do as I say, and not as do, is a much used expression. We say one thing and we do something else. As adults, e.g. In situations toward children, of course, we become bad role models. When I heard the Prime Minister's comments this morning, I thought like that: she says a lot that is really very good, but you do a lot different than what the Prime Minister says. In this way, I think this also fits well with the Prime Minister's statements earlier today. So what's the result of saying one thing, but doing the opposite? Well, the differences are increasing. Even if you say you want a society with little differences, it's like politics is going in a different direction. A policy of tax relief to them with the greatest contribution to, among other things, Differences are increasing — unless there is a different direction in the government budget tomorrow, where the government actually chooses a direction that reduces differences. The aim is to ‘regard the fact that the vacancy is falling apart’, said the Prime Minister. But it has already established itself at a critically high level. The policy does not work, is the conclusion of it – unless there is a different direction tomorrow. Can we expect there to be a different direction tomorrow with a background in what the Prime Minister said this morning? She also said that it will be required in the future that ‘we give priority to private sector jobs’. We know the result. 25 000 new jobs have been created in three years. Three out of four were created in the public sector. Policies don't work. Nor does it help to increase bureaucracy, nor does it make it more difficult for the good ideas to find good processes on the way to the market. It is possible that there will be a new direction in the state budget tomorrow. Everything that should not grow can be said to grow under this government. Unemployment is growing. The differences have grown. Greenhouse gas emissions have grown. Insecurity has grown. The bureaucracy has grown. Conclusion: The policy does not work or maybe it works. An area that doesn't increase, but that should have been increased, is the ability to create new jobs. That ability is significantly reduced under the blue-blue government, and there is no sign that this will turn – unless you get a different direction and a different course for society through the state budget tomorrow. The future father is that those who choose to listen to the government, of course, want to hear what they say, but don't understand what they do, because they say one thing, but they do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e985	Jonas Gahr Støre tried in his post to doubt the government's commitment and willingness to overcome work-life crime and social dumping. Let's be clear: this work is top priority. We don't want a brutalised labour market, underpaid workers and losses of large tax revenues. In January 2015, the government’s strategy against labour crime was presented. It consists of 22 actions and six departments cooperate on their implementation. The strategy is followed up by regular meetings at the State Secretary level and in cooperation with the social partners, because it is important to stick together in this work. According to the reports of the agencies, the crime of working life has become more widespread, it has become more serious, more professional and more difficult to detect. Therefore, efforts against this type of crime must also be strengthened and better coordinated. The 2015 budget allocated funds to establish local units to combat crime at work. Bergen, Stavanger and Oslo were first out. This year similar centres have been opened in Trondheim and in Kristiansand. Here, employees from the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax department work together to carry out joint supervision, guidance and control of selected industries, and everything indicates that the measure works. In 2015, the local units controlled around 1500 establishments with around 5700 workers. The budgets provided a joint annual report on efforts, and work has had a significant impact. Twelve major actions have been carried out, mainly in construction, but also in car care, car repair and outdoors. Through systematic work, about 30 criminal actors are completely out of play, 36 have been expelled from Norway, and 80 people have been expelled from work after the checks. Some of the new measures require a maximum of two sub-contracting levels for construction, construction and cleaning contracts. Contracting authorities shall require the use of apprentices. Measures to combat abuse of HMS cards are under way and a national recognition system is to be established for foreign vocational training. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is carrying out a survey of compliance with the equal treatment rules of the Temporary Agency Directive and the development of the use of different forms of association in the labour market. So there's a lot of money from the government and government to fight the crime of working life, but as long as people say yes to black work, there's also going to be a market there for the unprofessional actors and businesses. There has to be a change of attitude to it, and everyone has to take responsibility and say no to black work if we are to get the unprofessional actors off the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e998	Norwegian oil and gas activities are based on a long-lived and hard-constructed myth that the world is using Norwegian oil, and that Norway is a leading country in climate policy. The truth is that Norway is a climate host. The average northerly man emits twice as much as the average. And then we get the idea that Norwegian oil is extra clean. Focus has just pierced holes on that myth to a pretty effective degree. Not that it is particularly eye-catching to realize that producing oil from heavy platforms in the Barents Sea is more energy-intensive and emits more emissions than producing from nickel pumps in the Saudi Arabia desert, but now we know that this myth is false. Last week we also received reports that fixed what we have suspected for a long time: the carbon that exists – the coal and the oil and gas that exist in the already existing fields during production, is too much to meet the 2-degree target if we produce everything. In other words, we now know that Norwegian oil is not pure. We now know that it's very likely at all not room for opening new fields. The question, whether or not Norwegian oil and gas will be released into the atmosphere in the future, is one place in the world, and it is in this room through the concession rounds. So far, Norwegian oil policy has meant that later on, as if Norwegian oil gets into the atmosphere or not, it's the buyers who are responsible for, it's their problem, it's the Germans who tend to it, it's the French housewives who use it to cook potatoes. The truth is, we have to decide whether we want Norwegian oil and Norwegian gas to go into the atmosphere. We have to include in our discussion about the future of oil policy how much more we want to get out. We have to add climate assessments to the concession rounds, and we have to put down our feet and say no to the 23rd concession round and say no to go further with the 24th concession round before we have discussed and made a conscious and responsible opinion about how much more carbon, how much more CO 2, we in Norway and we in the Storting will add the earth's atmosphere. We can't avoid this responsibility anymore, and I really encourage the Storting to join in on a policy that takes on the responsibility that we now have all the knowledge that tells us to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1016	The Prime Minister’s intervention in today’s debate was a study of disclaimer and contradictions. Instead of talking about solutions and taking leadership in a situation of increasing unemployment, she spent a lot of time blaming oil prices. Every time the government is challenged by the situation, even today, they say that we have to wait for the policy to work, and that now it can look like things are about to turn around. The result of the government's waiting-and-see attitude is record unemployment, falling employment, falling investment and almost no new jobs are created in the private sector. No, the government is not responsible for the oil prices. The red-green government was not responsible for the financial crisis either. That's how you face such crises, which is the case. Instead of waiting and blaming others, the Stoltenberg government launched a large-scale package of measures of around 20 billion. kr to create new activity. The result was 355,000 new jobs, two out of three in the private sector, and Europe's lowest unemployment. Those who waited for Erna Solberg to announce today that she and the government take the responsibility they actually have must have been disappointed. The contradictions were also evident in the statements made by the Prime Minister. She spoke extensively about small differences, but the result of government policy is increased inequality. She talked about avoiding a B team in the workplace, but that's exactly what's going on with government policy. Representatives of the government have claimed that they want to strengthen Norwegian ownership, but government's desire to sell and privatize state companies will lead to the opposite. I had hoped that today we would see a prime minister who came forward, took leadership and loosed the country through dangerous waters. Instead, we saw a prime minister who denied responsibility, owed it to others and did not take leadership. It is weak in a very demanding situation for the Norwegian economy and the many people who today have no job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1027	This debate has to a very large extent been marked by the national picture and the challenges facing society in the years to come – not unnaturally a year before the elections, as is currently happening. Nevertheless, if one were to try to expand the perspective a little bit, perhaps the picture is global now that Norway has been doing fantastically well over a few years, while the world around us is in a more challenging situation with a lot of tougher problems than just a few years ago. What will perhaps most be demanded of Norway in the years to come is a stronger commitment and that we contribute more to the leadership of many of the major conflicts and difficulties around us. The war in Syria is probably the worst war in recent times, with the greatest humanitarian consequences we have seen around us. At the same time, almost without notice in Norway, there is a war in Yemen with enormous humanitarian consequences. About 20 million people are now dependent on humanitarian aid in Yemen. If we look at the picture elsewhere, what we have experienced, which we often refer to as a refugee crisis, is actually a long-standing, permanent refugee crisis, where a very high number of people have fled the world. It is still true that there are no countries in Europe on the top ten list of countries that accept most refugees in the world. At the same time, the number of internally displaced persons in the world is enormous. An example is a country that has received a lot of attention in recent years, Colombia, which has some 7 million internally displaced persons after almost 50 years of war and conflict. It shows the enormous need for international involvement from countries that have the ability, competence and economic resources to operate it. Leadership is needed in important UN processes, and I am calling for a government that is even stronger than it is today. In one field, I would like to commend the government for that, for the educational effort, which has been very important and has had wide support in the Storting. When it comes to processes such as either the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Complaint or nuclear weapons, or what we could do in connection with the armaments of the parties involved in the war in Yemen, I believe a little more commitment, a little clearer leadership and challenging the borders with other countries could be an important Norwegian contribution, as we are an surplus nation both economically and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1038	That the Labour Party and the Right are on each side of the policy, everyone knows. But in the debate that's going on here now, I feel that we're actually on every planet. That the Workers' Party wants to spend the large amount of money on the community and equal opportunities for everyone, while the Right wants to spend it on a couple of neighborhoods just west of where we are now, we got a clear description yesterday. Today we have heard the Prime Minister say that we must pursue a more entrepreneurial policy. But dear friend, there is no one who refuses her and the government to do so! They've actually had three years to do just that. That we have a government that doesn't understand the districts, that doesn't understand North Norway, we've seen for a long time. A stream of right-wing representatives has been up on this pulpit and told how well things are going now. It does it in many places, and we're going to be happy about it. But they say we're going to use the whole country. One of the witnesses to truth that has been used is the export records, especially in the field of seafood. With respect to reporting, I think that the krone price has a significantly greater share of the credit for it than the government. Yesterday we also heard a Minister of Industry who told us about a business that will have more of the same – tax relief for the richest. The business I meet expresses something else. They tell us about a everyday life filled with uncertainty. What kind of bill do they get in the next draft government budget from this government? The last time they got the flight seat fee, which hit North Norway hardest. Because we have no alternative to planes. But worse than that, the tender criteria used by the Minister of Transport for the last roundabout call. Where you have previously had criteria related to flight times, which meant that you could go to Oslo at day meetings and get home in the evening, you now have to spend the night. Is that what the Prime Minister puts in an offensive policy for more profitable jobs? Let me conclude with an area where the government definitely does not understand the needs of North Norway: the fishing industry. When the government in its port strategy proposes to transfer the state fishing ports to the municipalities, it is at least not the industry the Prime Minister is thinking about when she says that the private sector needs to have better framework conditions. If someone in this room thinks that e.g. And the municipality of Andøy is able to realize a fishing port project of half a billion, and please raise your hand. So when the government in its speeches points to the seafood industry as an important bone in the business life of the future, it can't be the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1051	Yes – to the representative Berg-Hansen – we are on every planet, that is. The working party is located on an entirely own globe in its description of North Norway. When I heard the comments of representatives Juviks and Henriksen yesterday, there was just one sentence that was missing in the posts when it came to the description of North Norway: the end time is near. But it's not. North Norway is going down. Nordland exported in August for 3 billion. kr. Unemployment in Troms is historically low — back to 1978 — at 1.9 p.m. This should be possible to enjoy. I am surprised that the Workers' Party in Northern Ireland is able to send so many mole-steered representatives to the National Assembly. It can't serve the country as such. The government understands North Norway, but there were few who understood the red-green north-area policy. Nordic policy is about making resources and knowledge about jobs and employment. That's what happens, that's what's reflected in the numbers. Nordic policy is also about addressing the security policy challenges in North Norway seriously, for domestic and security policies are in northern Norway as twins. This is why the government is putting forward a long-term plan that will strengthen the defence in North Norway considerably. North Norway is a gold chest – seafood, fishing, tourism, mechanical industry. It is the 'yes' policy of the government, which triggered the potential of North Norway, which increases employment, and the fact that the country's territory is fixed and voted in favour, as opposed to part of its representatives here in the Chamber. So about the local economy: that's not right, what the representative Juvik said. The local economy has been strengthened under this government. In the period 2009–2013, under the red-green, the municipal economy grew by 1.4 pst. So far, the local economy has achieved a real growth of 1.8 pst. under this Government. So we are ahead of you in a much shorter time. Finally, in the range of the many measures introduced by the government in North Norway as an active Northern Region policy, the Northern Region Forum, a forum in which two departments, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, set up a permanent meeting place with Nordic politicians to move on to very important issues for the region, which have been hampered in its development, partly because of unnecessary county feuds in North Norway. Summary: The government understands North Norway, the government does a lot for North Norway. The results speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1066	In the same way as the previous speaker, I think it's been a strange drumming debate. It seems that the workers' party representatives do not like that the government has managed to deal with the refugee crisis, rising unemployment, and the transition that is speeding up the economy. There have been repeated many negative criticisms. The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, said in his contribution yesterday that the local economy has become worse during this government. That's not true. In fact, the average real growth in municipalities under the red-green government in the four-year period 2009–2013 was 1.4 pst. With the Right in government, the growth was already after two years of 1.9 pst. The growth per capita was 0.1 pst. in the red-green time and has been of 0.8 pst. so far in our reign. In the period 2013-2015, municipalities increase their free revenues by just over DKK 800 per capita. In the whole period 2009–2013, municipalities increased their free income by less than DKK 300 per capita. For Sogn and Fjordane, the real growth in free income per capita increased from SEK 150 in the period 2009–2013 to DKK 778 in the period 2013–2015. In our calculations, we have taken into account changes in tasks, cost growth and the inclusion of ear-marked accessories. Another important fact is that municipalities’ operating performance for 2015 is the best since 2006. The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society. A good and prudent community economy is important for the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare services and create living communities throughout the country. Therefore, this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has strong, not weak, the local economy. Hence, this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has given priority, not down-prioritized, early efforts in the school. Therefore, this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has not restricted the system of free core time in the kindergarten. Therefore, this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has introduced, not removed, free PC for elephants with read and write problems. As former spokesman, Juvik should instead congratulate the blue-blue government on many important measures to strengthen the freedom of action of the municipalities and strengthen local democracy, as well as at the same time strengthening the local economy. The transfer of planning and building laws from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation has resulted in seven out of ten counterclaims handled by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation being decided in whole or in part in accordance with the decision to the municipalities. Under Juvik's government, the number was four out of ten. Local government reform will increase local self-government. The government facilitates the relocation of state jobs to far greater extent than the previous government, and not least a simplification of the outbound management will give municipalities and landowners far greater access to their outbound areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1082	There has been a wonderful downturn of District Norway in this debate, from both the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the latter which is yet to be seen as a friend of the districts. In practical policy, however, it is often the opposite; in many ways and in many areas, it is a district-enemy policy that is being undermined by the Centre Party. An important distinction in this debate has been on how to create more jobs that contribute to the income side of the budget. Tens of billions in tax increases to the companies that are going to create these jobs are not in demand from businesses, nor is it a good response to the challenges facing Norway. This is at least as true for District Norway as for the rest of the country. Red-green tax scarves can soon mean the death of small farms and family farms in District Norway. It's mostly small businesses, it's here most jobs, but the family businesses rarely have a lot of cash or large operating margins, it's the workshop, the hairdresser or the plumber. But it's also in District Norway we find important export jobs, large employment sets in small communities. There are these companies that the red-green take the chance of taxing down and out of business. There are district work sites in the export companies of the centre party that are at stake when they wish to terminate the EEA Agreement. It's playing Russian ruleet with value-creating business throughout the country, including in the districts. The centre party talks a lot about the districts, but to me it often sounds like the centre party is most concerned that District Norway will live on grants. In the right, we conduct a policy that allows District Norway to live on profits from private jobs and from business activities and contribute to the creation of value both locally and for the whole country. While the Center Party is painting the government's policy, District Norway is experiencing growth and activity, despite the challenges in the oil industry. Lower taxes on Norwegian companies, better roads and a healthy municipal economy from this government mean that District Norway has better opportunities than for a long time and goes very well in large parts of the country. In practice, right-wing policies are better for the towns than the Centre Party. It's going well, for example. In Finland, unemployment is the lowest in Norway, the industry is growing, and in the forest they are getting ready to take Norway through the green shift. North Norway tells of a region with clearly higher growth than the rest of the country, and many industries are screaming for labour. The only sure thing we know about the alternative to this government is that there is an increase in taxes on Norwegian enterprises and jobs, and in the time we are in now, we need the last Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1094	The Prime Minister wants people to remember after the throne debate is that the government will fight inequality. The truth is that the Right is the Great One's strongest adherent to the four freedoms of market forces, i.e. the free movement of goods, services, capital and workers. This ideology is the recipe for developing greater differences among people. Most people today experience this, whether between city and country, between industries or people's ability to earn their jobs. The center party is too jealous. It requires popular intervention in the market. The national state is the strongest of the weakest, to which Marit Arnstad referred in yesterday's debate. It's a very important confession. It is the Storting that is the elected body that can politically facilitate the development of jealous relations between peoples, but once Norway has committed itself to the four freedoms of market forces, this gives a system of coercion in which the room for action of the Storting is weakened in order to further develop the Norwegian model. Today’s development is creating more and more differences in Europe. The problem is increasing, many people are watching what's going to happen to Deutsche Bank. Why do we not get a debate in the Storting on the cause of the problem of greater inequality? An important reason is that the Right Party and the Labour Party agree to build the overall foreign trade policy on the EU and the ideological basis of the EEA Agreement, an EEA agreement – a housekeeper contract – which was to pave the way for Norway to become a part of the European Union in 1992, a Union that is increasingly calling an experiment without a model. The centre party will renegotiate our relationship with the European Union. Brexit has created a new reality that Norway needs to use positively. By scrapping the EEA Agreement, we can ensure that Norway becomes an independent and maritime-led country, as the UK wishes. Norway can be further developed as a different country, which is not seaworthy enough, with more emphasis on international solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1104	Income-bearing work and housing for all are important to create small differences between people. Unemployment increases the power of market forces to create inequality. The free movement of labour between countries with very different conditions leads to greater unemployment in Norway. Housing bubbles that prevent young people from financing owner-occupied housing are the result of a lack of capital management. The Right Party and the Labour Party must be involved in discussing the causes of increasing inequality among people. This will give a fairer debate. Not least the Labour Party must take this debate. People's conversations around the nest package show the need. For the Central Party, this debate is absolutely necessary. Our project is to develop Cohesion Norway, not Market Norway. Then we have to go to the root of the problem, which provides the basis for increasing differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1107	The right claims that they are concerned with improving and helping Norwegian business framework conditions. Nevertheless, there is consideration for the owners and the others with large assets that have prevailed in the first place in this period. Already in 2013 the Labour Party and Sigbjørn Johnsen saw that we needed a reform of the tax system. There were in particular two challenges that the new system had to face, increasing tax competition from our closest trading partners and cross-border capital movements due to tax rates, but also other challenges. Stoltenberg II put down the Scheel Committee, and on the basis of the challenges outlined by the government, they delivered their report in autumn 2014. Had the government been quick at the lab to improve the conditions for Norwegian business, they might have managed to implement a new tax system already in the 2015 budget. Instead, a tax reform was not adopted until the spring 2016 session, that is, just before the summer, and then much of the room for action in the economy was already spent on tax havens for the most wealthy. So the government wasn't acting, and when the reform actually came to the Stortinget, almost ran away because the Right Party and the Advance Party here on the house were so blinded by proposals from Civita. So the government didn't have the idea of the reform. They allied, probably because of internal quarrels, to submit proposals to the Stortinget. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party thought they might be able to resume the negotiations here in Stortinget. They put aside the government's proposal, again in favour of Civita, and no one had the strength or the will to get the government's proposal through in the Stortinge. The result was – fortunately – that the Labour Party proposal was adopted, which Civita also admits in her disappointment at the government. But we really don't need Civita's concessions, because we presented our proposal already in the autumn of 2015, and it's confusing like what the Stortinget actually ended up adopting as its tax proposal. This proposal does nothing about taxes on wealth. It does something about corporate taxes, a tax that the OECD says is significantly more harmful to businesses, where each percentage point works straight into the bottom line of businesses and makes each investment more profitable. The tax is an effective way to strengthen Norwegian business. So the government parties didn't own the force, they didn't own the idea, they didn't own the executive power. Fortunately, the Workers' Party had some available work capacity, and in the autumn of 2017 you will again see a government that has significantly more executive power than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1118	Now this debate of the throne has been for a while. We have heard almost 150 posts from this pulpit, and I have to say that I am a little surprised by many of the contributions from the representatives of the Labour Party, most recently the contributions from the representatives of Berg-Hansen and Wickholm. What I hear is a violent attack on the government's policy on change and employment, but I hear very few of my own actions – in fact, I can only come up with one concrete measure, and there is an increase in public money use. There has been a reference to an SSB report for which the Workers' Party has ordered and paid, claiming that public investment is more effective against unemployment than tax relief for business. Yes, it is no surprise that public money can be very effective in the short term, but if that logic is to be fully applied to the Workers' Party, it is strange that the Workers' Party in its alternative government budget is too much of the tax relief that this government has implemented. Then, of course, I can reveal that there are proposals that are much more effective than reducing the tax burden on businesses in the short term. We could only create a state directorate that had immediately employed all the unemployed. Why not – we have money on book, we have enough to do it? It is, of course, because the jobs that are to finance our welfare in the future must be on their own. Most of them must be profitable jobs in private enterprises. Many of them must be in industries other than the oil industry. I'm from Hordaland. It's one of the states that, despite the fact that unemployment has fallen by about a thousand people in the last two months, still has too much time off due to the oil price drop. I spend a lot of time going around and visiting companies in the county. And what do they ask? They do not ask for State rescue packages or more employees in a directorate in Oslo. They ask for the framework conditions they need to get over the knee and change. They're asking for better infrastructure, where we've increased the appropriations by almost 50 pst. Since 2013, and then they ask us to reduce the taxes on wealth, and preferably remove it. I know that the representative Gahr Støre is used to visiting Western companies owned by Dutch pension funds, but I tend to visit locally owned companies, and all the companies I meet say that the wealth tax is problematic because one has to pay it whether it goes well or bad. It discriminates against Norwegian owners, or patriotic capital, as the head of the Sunnhordland Mechanical Workshop formulated the last week. He has clarified himself firmly and clearly on equity in the last few years, while the company has gone through a deficit and his engine park has remained calm. The Netherlands FMC was 10 kilometres further down the road. Small and medium-sized business owners are local patriots, community builders, and we need to cheer them up and facilitate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1129	When the government joined three years ago, it was promised to pursue a new policy and hire the country in a new direction. That promise has this government kept. The Health Declaration and the Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to the country's being given a new course. Health queues and waiting times are shorter, especially before rushes and psychiatry, maintenance of roads and roads are reduced, research efforts are increased, further training of teachers has never been greater, more children go to kindergarten, and we have a policy that renews and improves the public sector. There's one word that's left since we went over the fall of 2013, and that's the word "conversion". It was also a major point below the Common Era of the Year. The right had long pointed out that we had a two-part Norwegian economy, where the oil sector was very dominant, where the employment and development of the economy had become very dependent on the oil price, which made us vulnerable to fluctuations. We were fully experienced in 2014. A slight decrease in oil investment coincided with a halve of oil prices, facing major challenges. We're talking about a new time. As a result of the downturn in oil, many have been associated with the industry, which has lost its jobs, especially in the South and West, and the government has taken action specifically against these areas. We now see a dawning optimism around the country. Nav now reports in September that there is the fourth month with fewer unemployed, and the Nav director said that the positive trend is because fewer unemployed – there have not been fewer new jobseekers since December 2014. In my home country, Telemark, unemployment is now lower than elsewhere in the country. 3 pst. of the labour force is available and there is a decrease in relation to the same month last year by 13 pst. It tells us that the policy is working. The government is leading a policy that stimulates the creation of more jobs, and that is, of course, the main priority. Therefore, investment in growth-promoting tax relief, investment in knowledge and research, efforts to build more roads and pathways, investment in research and infrastructure results. The central bank manager said this year: ‘The closure of establishments is faster than the construction of new ones. Conversions take time.» And he went on to say, ‘Changes must have their origin in business. Economic policy can only facilitate this process.’ Then the answer is not increasing taxes on business, as the Labour Party suggests. Since 2013, the government has reduced taxes and taxes by a total of 18 billion. kr, and for business there is a particular reduction in corporate taxes and property taxes. I haven't met a single company leader who has any desire to pay more taxes. No, we have to create more, not more treasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1156	Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on. We need more profitable jobs with high value creation, we heard in the census. They mentioned aquaculture, shipping, oil and gas, and that's good. But there was not one word about the forest, not one word about the possibilities of the Inland. In January 2013, the Stoltenberg government shut down the Inland Committee, and on 1 October 2015 they submitted their report. ‘The national may make a difference nationally and internationally’ is one of the main headings of the report, and rightly so. There is good advice on a research commitment for the Inland, a learning promise, forest development, agriculture and food production, tourism, games and entertainment and innovation in the public sector; on the great potential for a future population and economic development that could have affected the population growth expected in the Oslo area. But after October 2015 it has become silent from this government about the Inland and its possibilities. Where are the representatives of the Homeland from the Right and the Advance Party? Where are the representatives of Gundersen and Johnsen from Hedmark? They're sitting quietly in the boat, or as we say in Hedmark, they may be sitting quietly in the woods. Before the 2013 elections, they were high on the track, especially when it came to transportation. There would be immediately crossing tracks on Kongsvingerbanen, E16 would be built and according to Johnsen will be finished in 2017. Now it's uncertain whether this way is even coming into the new NTP. I will not tear up all the promises about toll stations to be removed, about the four-field road from Rena to Hamar and from Kongswinger to the Swedish border, but the project rv. 3/rev. 25 between Løten and Elverum is worth mentioning. The road is in the current NTP with a start in 2016 and completion in 2018, with funding from government funds and tolls. In autumn 2014, the entire project was ready, and everything could start in 2016 – well and well. A few weeks after the county council closed the case, it was announced that the government had pointed out the way that was particularly suitable for development through public–private cooperation. The argument was that OPS should go faster, be cheaper and get better than the traditional way of building – which had a start in 2016. Now we're almost done in 2016, it's not a plant machine to see. We're still waiting for the private partner to be found to lend money to the state, and what we're hearing now is that this probably won't be clear until late summer next year. Conclusion: The road project has been delayed by two years, in addition, the trees that were supposed to last 15 years will now be standing for 20 years. The reason is probably the extra cost of the private investor, which must have a return on its investment. It has to be taken from somewhere, and it has to be financed. Where is Gundersen from the Right and Johnsen from the Advancement Party in Hedmark? Do they seriously mean that this is going to be a good solution? And to the representative of Krogstad, it's wrong that nothing happened for Hedmark under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1167	The earth calls, I want to say. I think we're on the same planet, but it's natural that the populace don't have the same remoteness outside the solid walls here on the Lion Hill, that we don't meet the same people in the most spatial conversations we've ever considered in the busy life of our lives. Of course, we tend to different interests when they are opposed to each other. That's what the debate on the throne shows. The primary responsibility of the policy is to provide opportunities for the many, as many have said today. Then we must provide security for the many over wealth for the few, because it is the kind of society that is best for both the rich and the poor. For this reason, we work in SV against class distinctions, against inequality and for a tax model according to ability, value creation with regulated wage and working conditions and universal, good welfare arrangements, often called the Norwegian model. This model is strongly influenced by the extensive deregulations and changes in other areas. work environment laws, tax havens and privatisation models which the government has as a trademark. It is easy to say that insecure people in unemployment are not at their best. Today, I was reminded of the right-hand side's view of many of us, most of us in every country, we migrant workers. In his speech, the Prime Minister of the United States was worried about increasing the fight for jobs that do not require specific competence in the United States. So is Norway. For a long time, there has been a huge competition for work in the shop, in the restaurant and for cleaning or building houses. Does she perhaps mean formal education? In that case, it would be great if not only the teachers were to receive continuing training, but if we had implemented an ongoing training reform that would have allowed people to take their professional letters and other training while one is at work. Maybe it's competence to be good at talking to people, getting the goods and services they need without having a master -- real competence to do the job? Here to countries, we have been able for generations to create values, transform ourselves and put in place innovation around the country. It has been strongly established that this is mainly happening in established enterprises. This applies to travel, trade, industry and primary industries. Now we're in a climate crisis that requires us to harness our abilities. Experts keep telling us what we know, that using government money for conversion in a renewable and climate-friendly direction is better than putting it in the pockets of the richest. The right-hand side calls for our tools; it's security, hard work and government money building up on competent inventors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1178	The security we have developed through party cooperation and the Nordic model has become our strongest competitive advantage. But today we are experiencing an increasing insecurity, especially in relation to work, and we also feel that it is reinforced by government policy. It is completely incomprehensible to us, who are from the West, who are experiencing so great changes in working life, with mass redundancies and mass permits, that in such a situation the government chooses to weaken workers’ rights – the weakest party. But it is worth noting that the Right has a politician in Bergen, one of the most profiled, Jana Midelfart Hoff, who has been taken out in the ongoing medical strike for the defence of collective rights. She says how important it is to show solidarity with younger doctors and how she got support herself when she was young. The Labour Party knows the importance of regulated working life, with equivalent parties and not temporary employment without collective agreements. So we experience that the Right often makes a policy for the others, but when they themselves get hit, the Pipe gets a different song. For the Workers' Party, there is a clear link between life and learning, and it has always been important for us to give priority to action that strengthens a responsible and serious working life, while for the Right, the Advance Party and the Liberals in the Left, ideology is obviously more important. The consequences are greater leeway for unprofessional actors, greater insecurity for employees and greater differences, and more resources need to be deployed to address the worst outcomes, such as increased labour-criminalism and social dumping. The Workers' Party has visited many companies, and we know that Western companies have always been good at conversion, and that it is the private operators in the development of new jobs. Karsten Moholt is one of those who has had to cancel 30 pst. by its employees, who are now in the process of developing new markets and seeing the potential for digitisation, but who have been rejected by Innovation Norway. So we expect the government to be able to convert its own instruments into the rapid change that we are experiencing today in the world of work. Another example is Hordafor in Austevoll, which has built up in ten years a new industrial activity on residues from aquaculture and fisheries. But they have called for tools to use this processing on fishing boats and for equivalent customs duties on products, so there too we are waiting on the initiative. The Labour Party represents a policy based on cooperation between the parties with orderly working conditions, security of transition and, in the event of health failure, a dynamic industrial policy adapted to the strong drivers we have for increased value creation and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1193	Listening to the Workers' Party claim that the government puts equality in reverse, is a bit like hearing the campaign manager of Donald Trump when he was confronted with the polls showing a clear direction for Hillary Clinton. Then he said, "What measurements?" And when he got the answer that they were all, he replied back, "Say who?" This is the criticism of the Workers' Party against the government's equality policy. Facts don't bite them. But I can answer the Labour Party to who says this: it's Nav, it's SSB, and it's Evening Post, which put this in an overview. And then what do Nav and SSB say? Yes: Fewer women work part-time today than when the government took over in 2013, the share of cash-assisted children falls, the proportion of children in kindergarten increases, the proportion of minority-speaking children with kindergartens also increases, low-paid people are getting cheaper kindergartens, and more have got free core time. The Labour Party is entitled to its own opinions, but they are not entitled to their own facts. I agree with the Labour Party that we still have to work to balance gender differences in Norway, but how does the Labour Party explain that, despite the fact that they have run the country for eight years, we have one of Europe's most gender-shared labour markets? Only 13 pst. by top managers in private business are women, and about 40 pst. of women working part-time. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has launched measures to change this through tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities in working life and changes in the Working Environment Act. And if we're going to believe the numbers from the SSB and Nav, this has given positive results. But we also know that we have a good piece left. The gender-based labour market and the high proportion of women working part-time lead to pay differentials, pay differentials that are more critical to the division of the parental leave by families than old-fashioned attitudes about who should be at home with the newborn. If you want a more truly free choice that will also contribute to real equality, we have to look at the factors that make girls and boys still choose so traditional that they reproduce into family life later on. We have to make it possible for more people to choose non-traditional education and careers, and we have to look at Dad's right to benefit and the ability to take out leave regardless of what mother earns. Women also have an unexplainedly high level of sick leave, across all sectors — including social-democratic policy. In the Gender Equality Communication, we promoted a number of measures in this area. We would like, among other things: priority research on women’s health, ensure that up-to-date knowledge of the specific needs of men and women is put into practice, and provide better prevention, diagnosis, treatment and mastery of diseases leading to long-term medical reports and disability among women. So yes, we still have a way to go. But the Workers' Party's rhetoric about equality policy is so far away from reality that I wonder if the next thing is that the Workers' Party is proposing to build an equality wall and force the Men's Group Ottar to pay for it. But given that debate and what we've seen from this group lately, maybe there's one thing we could agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1210	When my grandfather was going to buy a garden, he went with a friend to Sweden to chop timber. Work in the village was poor, and there was little money to get hold of. When they came to Sweden, they bought each of their axes and a bacon on chalk. Timber hogging the last time in the 1800s was hard work, and it was long days. When the spring came and they were going to get the settlement, the grandfather went to zero, and the comrade was still guilty for the ax. He just stood there with his hat in his hands. At that time there was a great difference between rich and poor, city and country and women and men. What does this story have to do with today's society? Yes, there are similarities. When the Right says we haven't been out talking to people, that's not true. We have the highest unemployment rate in many, many years, 139 000 – 139 000 who sit around the dinner table and wonder if they can pay the rent if they can afford to buy a bundle for the confirmation of the spring. Then it is the youth who comes and asks for loans, but does not have work, and the lady who comes to my office with a small, temporary position and is in despair, because she can't afford kindergarten and can't afford to have the kids in leisure. Had she had a hat, she would have probably had it in her hand. When the representative Tina Bru instead said it's not about equality, it actually does. It is young people and ladies who are most affected by the disparity policy that the government is pursuing today. That's exactly what they're doing. There are increasing differences between cities and countries, women and men, rich and poor, between them with money and those without money. The government is pursuing a targeted policy to increase differences. Yes, we've got a bigger Difference Norway, as Karin Andersen said so well in an article earlier today. When the 50 richest get 1 billion. SEK in tax cuts, the equivalent annual salary of 2000 ordinary workers, we are on wild roads. It's not amazing. It's a discharge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1221	For the previous speaker I would say that I know myself again. As a skilled forest worker, I know quite a lot about what it is like to work in the forest, and I know what is important for the districts and for agriculture in that extension. Then I am amazed that the Labour Party and the Center Party then until those degrees turn their backs on the districts, as they do in this debate as well. Their resistance to government reforms shows that they are looking backwards and not forward. They will continue the centralization of the Norwegian society that we saw under the red-green, with state over-control and deprioritisation of local democracy. Their policies are increasing the relocation from the districts, and jobs will disappear. The right will not make the District Norway poor, as the Workers' Party and the Centre have done repeatedly from this pulpit. The districts are Norway, and they form the diversity and an important part of the value added base in Norway. Right does not fear the facts, as the Workers' Party and the Centre do when they turn their backs on the reforms to meet the future, because they say that people in the districts should not have the same right to meet the same competence and quality as in the cities, in their respective municipalities. For example, the centre party will: cancel the EEA Agreement, an agreement that is extremely important for our exports. They play Russian rulet with value-creating businesses throughout the country, including the districts. The Labour Party sat still for eight years and saw that the roads all over the country expired. This is the most important artery for having viable communities, and it was ignored. Forestry is entirely dependent on good transport potential and forest roads have been increased by 75 pst. after the government change. The income of the farmers has increased by 6 pst. Since 2014, and last year almost 25 000 targets were sown more cereals than in the previous year. It is the first time in 12 years that the area is increasing — a result of political decisions by the majority in this Chamber. The government strengthens the municipal economy every year. According to KS, the real space for action of the municipalities has been larger in the last three years than in the previous three years, before the government change. We're taking advantage of the opportunities across the country. We want yes-communities, we want creativity in local communities. We don't live on state transfers to the districts, it's not the right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1235	In today's business, Menon wrote before the summer that cuts in wealth taxes are important for the ability to adapt and to generate growth in young, small companies in Norway, not least in the knowledge-intensive service industries, i.e. the jobs of the future. This does not listen to the Workers' Party. Neither do they listen to existing industries. Leaders and trustees at the Brunvoll, Bussbyg, Oscar Sylte Mineralvaanfabrik and Rauma Ulvarefabrik – Norwegian-owned companies creating local jobs – wrote in a letter calling for help: ‘If industrial workplaces lost in the oil age are to be repatriated, the taxes on wealth in the workplace must be removed as soon as possible.’ Are they lying? Are trustees in these businesses just useful idiots for a management that won't pay taxes? Do not the representatives in this room believe that family-owned, traditional enterprises throughout Norway are genuinely engaged in maintaining local production? What happens in bad times when foreign-owned companies lose their jobs? Well, they cancel employees and lay down. But the grandchildren of business owners who are third or fourth generation owners have and take special responsibility for the jobs their grandparents have created. They may have children in the same nursery as their employees, buying milk in the same store. They manage what the family has built up and paid taxes for over a hundred years. But when e.g. Brunvoll loses order for about 300 million. kr during the financial crisis and thrusters are put in stock, hunting workers' party stands and shall have property taxes for the values they are not sold. This is the active industrial policy of the Workers' Party. A tax that can kill traditional, local Norwegian-owned jobs is collected to subsidise the dream projects of others. Enterprises and employees should really listen when the Workers' Party is talking about active enterprise policies, because if their enterprise is not referred to as direct beneficiaries of subsidies, it is their job that must pay for them. This debate has at least proved that the Workers' Party does not understand business development, a party that did nothing to convert Norwegian business while they had the largest economic space any Norwegian government has ever had. Their command-economic approach to job creation becomes evident when, after three years, they call for the same number of jobs that have been lost in an industry that spent 40 years building up. But I think the work of the future is already created. I think it's created in traditional companies all over the country, if they survive, and among thousands of entrepreneurs who have been helped to get started by this government. But no company starts with 10,000 employees, they have to build up to become robust, sustainable and not least competitive companies. Then they need more of the Right and Advance Party policies, and not a tax bill from the Workers' Party that puts the jobs at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1253	The Progress Party sees the whole chain of criminal proceedings. The government's offensive commitment to new posts in the Public Prosecutor's Office is referred to by the head of police lawyers as the «lift of times». The Minister of Justice has also taken action to ensure that reports by a known perpetrator should not be filed without investigation – an important victory for the Progress Party. The Progress Party has always been the party for security and offensive justice policy. When this period of government is over, we're going to employ over 1 300 new policemen. I am proud that this government's commitment to the police will ensure that we reach the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. More policemen in rural and urban areas are crucial to the security of the population. This, together with a reinforced bombing group, emergency squads, new police helicopters and armored police cars in each district, means that the police are now also much better equipped to face a potential terrorist attack. I hope that the Progress Party can finally have a majority in favour of the proposal for a national ban on lucky garments such as burka and nikab in Norwegian educational institutions. Such a decision would be a victory both for equality and for integration. The marking of outsiders by an exclusive clothing suit also creates greater distance from the majority society and makes integration much more difficult. Freedom of religion and belief is a fundamental right in Norway and a right The Progress Party also stands behind it. However, freedom of religion does not imply a right to practice contrary to other social considerations, as security to the public, or at the expense of the freedom of others. The use of clothing that hides the face is contrary to the right of other people to live together in a society, as such clothing sets up a barrier to communication between people. This is a justification that the European Court of Human Rights has also used and supported. Whole religious clothing is justified in Islam by the fact that women are not to arouse sexual desire in men. The use of this kind of clothing on children is therefore a misunderstood way for parents to control girls, for paradoxically this becomes a form of sexualization of girls. When society accepts that little girls are to be considered sexual objects, it's a signal that you're hesitating to grab hold of what you'd do if it was ethnically Norwegian children. A garment on girls that prevents their life-exploitation and that intends to avoid arouse sexual desire in men cannot be accepted in Norwegian educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1264	After hearing the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in this debate, one would almost think that everything was absolutely in the best order and perfectly perfect. Yes, the only concern of the Right and Advance Party is that we from the Workers' Party are a little too concerned about unemployment. The worrying thing is that the Right Party government itself is not concerned about the challenges in the country it is ruling. This debate has shown us that the Right-Fremskrit party government is not concerned about the 139 000 unemployed. It doesn't have a concern that the differences are increasing. It has no concern that the government's most important thing, tax cuts to the richest, does not actually create new jobs. It is a fact that under the Right-Fremskritsparte government, new jobs have scarcely been created. When the Workers' Party was in government during the financial crisis, over 350 000 new jobs were created in Norway, two-thirds of which were in the private sector. Now there are barely 25 000 new jobs. It's not very impressive. In 2009, Prime Minister Erna Solberg called the high unemployment rate of 70,000 unemployed people embarrassing. Now that there are even more unemployed and a drastically lower job growth, it hardly creates a germ of concern for the Right and Advance Party representatives in this Chamber. These are mildly said to be quite great mood swings – and not least very serious for all the 139 000 people who are now out of work and who know about the insecurity. Don't tell me that the 139 000 people are calling for tax cuts! They're calling for a job to go to. I know that Norwegian politicians do not determine international economic cycles. But what policies the international economic cycle meets with actually means something. That's what's politics, that's what's governing, and that's what's also perfectly obvious to me is the difference between a government that's run by the Workers' Party and a government that's run by the Right and the Advance Party. It is incomprehensible to me that demanding international economic cycles meet with a lack of action and a lack of willingness to do what actually works, but with a continuing blind belief in giving tax cuts to them with the most from before. I conclude that there is little evidence that this government is helping to prepare Norway for the future. We have a government that chooses to close its eyes for what is actually happening in our country. I think we need a new government. Only to the voting order, at the end of the day: the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 8, from SV, and for proposal No. 15 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1285	Like the Prime Minister, many of us are excited about the American election campaign – a society in which many dreams are shattered by great differences and a total lack of equal opportunities. The Prime Minister expresses concern about the development of society in the United States and points in particular to the great economic and social differences between people. These are verbal crocodile tears from the prime minister. Government policies, with tax cuts to the richest, privatisation of well-being, the sale of our Community resources and the weakening of labour rights, just lead to a society with less well-being and increased differences between people. Nor is this a good recipe for increased value creation and employment, rather the opposite. The Norwegian model – for which this government claims it is, but helps to weaken every day – is a necessary tool for ensuring high employment, equal opportunities, good welfare and small differences. The right-hand side of Norway and internationally has developed the rhetoric in recent years, but not the policy. It's interesting to note that, especially as it approaches choices, one tries to distance himself as far as possible from its own policies and the brutal consequences of it. Policies are wrapped up in cotton, and rhetorical attempts are being made to represent social democrats. However, the problem for the right-hand side is that it is difficult to hide all those who have now become unemployed. My county, East Agder, is hit hard and is one of the areas of the country with the highest unemployment rate. We also face major welfare and living conditions challenges. We therefore need a government that takes unemployment and living conditions challenges seriously, and can offer more than misleading rhetoric. East-Agder and the rest of the country need a new and modern policy in which we jointly provide high employment, equal opportunities, good public welfare systems and small differences. In the Workers' Party, we are ready for this mission, and we have the policy to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1296	In an article earlier today, I talked about the railway reform and the completely incomprehensible thing going on on on that front, with privatisation, fragmentation and powdering of responsibility. I mentioned the costs of the rail reform – the huge costs – and I will now address it a little further. I asked a question to the Minister for Transport – it is nice that he has now arrived and is present – and in an answer on 8 September the Minister writes: ‘Railway infrastructure undertaking’ — yes, once again, listen to that word, I think it is 30 letters: the railway infrastructure undertaking, established by the lot for the severe reduction of taxes, charges and public intervention — ‘Railway infrastructure undertaking Bane NOR SF informs that the total expected cost of graphic design and profiling at the time of the creation of Railway NOR is SEK 36.5 million [[...]] [[...]] And it's just graphic design and profiling to one of the new companies and businesses that are now being established! So there's a new directorate, a new company and three new companies, and this might just be the start. How much does this cost? What kind of administrative system are we building to take care of what, in the European context, after all, is a relatively modest railway network? On the same day that the Minister of Transport answered my question — the same day, of course, quite randomly — the Ministry sends out a press release where they have a signature at the bottom: ‘The use of Consultant Assistance in the Ministry of Transport in connection with the railway reform’. It says: «All agreements are concluded in accordance with the procurement rules and cover a total of nine contracting parties: BAHR, Deloitte, Safetec, PWC/Interfleet, Quartz/TØI, Rejlers, Egil Smestad Advisory, Danske Bank and Alpha Corporate Finance.» What are we spending money on? What is the Minister of Transport and the Government going on? For a huge use of money to build down the railway organisation that we have in Norway! This is an ideological project by the government. At least it doesn't lead to a better railway. When we have said that it is privatisation of the railways, the Minister for Transport has said: No, it is not privatisation of the railways, because the NSB must still be owned by the state. We got the cats out of the bag a while ago – the program committee in the Progress Party is now proposing to sell NSB AS. Of course, because now they have the wing clip and destroyed the company so that soon there is no sense in owning the company. [[President clubs]] It might have been interesting to hear if the Minister for Transport agrees with the Programme Committee: Is it right to sell the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1313	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1319	During this debate, the Progress Party noted that the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee was in the Chair and only in two words mentioned school and education in its contribution. However, this may be seen in the context of the fact that the Workers' Party is satisfied with the historical contribution to the continuing training of more than 5000 teachers each year, the implementation of the pilot project with 600 additional teaching positions for schools where the primary school credits were below the average, the increase of the apprenticeship grant by a total of DKK 17 500 per year, the implementation of a professional and a real-time apprenticeship, the stepping-up plan to introduce eleven months of study support and record investment on the construction of more than 2000 student housing per year. The Progress Party believes that all children and young people in this country should have equal rights and equal opportunities to obtain education. Against this background, the Progress Party believes that Nikab and Burka symbolize values that radically violate the liberal values on which Norway is built, is a serious obstacle to successful integration and prevents equal opportunities for all children and young people. Such clothing hinders play and interaction between young people, they signal a distance from Norwegian society, it stands in the way of integration and creates an unfortunate and artificial distinction between the sexes. These plagues are justified by Islamists that girls and women should avoid provoking sexual desire in men. When society accepts that little girls are to be considered sexual objects, it's a signal that you're hesitating to grab hold of, as you would have done if it were ethnically Norwegian children. The sexualisation of girls at school cannot be accepted, whether it is in the form of cover with nicab or with the sex fixation of the fashion industry. A garment of minor girls that prevents their life-exploitation, and that intends to avoid arouse sexual desire in men, cannot be accepted in Norwegian school. The Progress Party believes that it is misunderstood tolerance when politicians do not dare to say clearly and clearly no to gender segregation and religious segregation, and when it is said that this is not a problem in Norway today. We politicians are obliged to be forward-looking and must have the courage to counter the illiberal practices – a practice that deprives children of their more solar rights to free play and development. It is a common responsibility for us through the great community to set up important values, such as freedom, equality and equivalency, built up through generations in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1330	In an insecure time, then, we have a government that sets record in oil money usage to finance tax cuts for those who have the most from before. Now the 50 richest have been taxed corresponding to the annual income of 2000 ordinary workers. Ask me, it's short-term and non-solid. Ask a parliamentary leader in the Right, a few will answer that it is fantastic. But we in the Workers' Party are concerned, because while the differences between people are increasing, the government continues to sell Norway. The surplus of the community's resources shall no longer be shared among all, but shall make a few even richer. And at a time when there's almost no job growth, the government continues the tax cuts to those who have the most from before. Unemployment is increasing, and for three years we have heard Right try to explain their own lack of results. First, it was the Workers' Party's fault. Then there was an oil price drop – you couldn't do anything about it. Now they repeat the fact that it's not politicians who create jobs, it's the business that does. Common to all these are disclaimers. The soundtrack to this government could have been: ‘It was my fault’. It says something about the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy, because it says something about who believes that policy is working. There is a difference between those who want to spend the big money on tax cuts for those who have the most from before, and those who want to spend the big money on targeted measures that get people to work. There is a difference between those who love business neutrality and those who are willing to use active and targeted business and district policies. There is a difference between those who talk nice about work and those who have always had work for everyone as their most important thing. There is a difference between those who are most concerned about blaming everything and everyone else, and those who on their guard have taken responsibility and demonstrated the ability and willingness to combat both unemployment and differences. And then it may not be by chance that the last Workers' Party was put into government, there were created 360 000 new jobs, while under this government it was created only 25 000. On 8 April of this year, Erna Solberg said to Høyre's national meeting: ‘not let anyone tell you anything else: the whole of the economic policy is now working hard to combat unemployment.’ [[...]] It's been six months. Today there are more unemployed. 139 000 people do not have a job to do. Employment has not been lower in 20 years. Erna Solberg, we're tired of waiting for the results. It's time to change the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1346	Religious freedom is a central part of any liberal democracy. The freedom of religion as we have understood it in Norway not only means the right to have one's own private faith at home, it also means the right to be able to demonstrate one's faith, to be able to express one's faith. In the public at large, representatives have suggested that Norway should move from its traditional social model to a more French secular model. That's not something I want. I don't want you to hide your faith. I believe that we should still be a society and a state based on a Christian, humanistic heritage. I want a young, believing Christian girl to be able to cross and show it, I want a young, proud Jewish boy to go with his tippa and show it, and I also don't want to ban clothing like hijab for those who want to wear it. Nevertheless, there is another situation when you go into, for example: a school. It's crucial that the teacher can communicate, it's essential that you look at each other, talk to each other, look at the facial expressions of each other. There is a teaching situation that is different from many other situations in Norwegian society. Probably – and I have to say this probably, because we don't have thorough research around this – lucky facials are a very small problem in Norwegian elementary school. There's probably very few cases of it, if any. There may be some more at universities and colleges. For a very long time, it has been possible as a municipality, as a school owner, as a university and higher education institution to ban this at one's own institution. There's a lot of people who have used it. In my home country, Telemark, the university, for example, has used it. I have supported and supported it, because I believe that in educational situations it is just a prerequisite that you can see everyone's face. There are some suggestions from various parties here that the government should look at the use of lucky facial garments in educational situations. We're going to start work in the Department of Knowledge, with a view to getting a national code to prevent the use of clothing that covers the whole face, just in schools, universities and colleges. We're going to start work quickly. It is, as I said, a national legislation that will eliminate any doubts and also remove the difficulty of taking a decision, which some may have felt locally. At the same time, we also have to be clear that there may be some practical dilemmas around this. What are the educational situations? Is that supposed to apply only inside the school building? Should it apply to the entire campus? Does it mean, for example, that a woman with nikab who goes over campus on the Blind in Oslo or at NTNU in Trondheim, can't do that? We also need to assess this type of issue, but the aim is clear: we want a national legislation to avoid allowing lucky faces in educational situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1355	Let's see. Several have today claimed that the Workers' Party operates with black paint from the government. I remember that they said the same thing during the entire election campaign in 2013, when we tried to figure out what was in the election programmes of the Right and Advance Party. That time there was a conscious strategy from the right, and so is today. They put themselves all the way up to us in their rhetoric, but have a completely different policy. It's like I said yesterday, they're blinking and going to the left, but they're swinging to the right. It may sometimes be difficult to hear the truth and the facts, but it has to be tolerated in politics. Right-wing representatives Loodmeal and Rivers do the same when they try to make it like they're the best friends in the municipal sector. But they're not, they're more concerned with size, municipal boundaries and coercion than with economics. Both Rivers and Lødemel are trying to represent it as having increased the appropriations more than the red-greens did in their eight years. That's wrong. Average growth under the red-green was 2.5 pst., not 1.4 pst., as they claim. In addition, we have granted many more billions more than this government in all the budgets of this period, and we have added 3 billion. kr more in the municipal bill for next year. Then I also remind you that this government has changed the corporate tax. They've done the right thing. But what does it mean? Well, it means less to most municipalities, and at least less to all the municipalities in the Nordic region. They've cut off the regional development funds, which have hit my county hard, and recently they've changed the cost keys, which make Nordland counties get 300 million. kr less for operation from 2020. This is the reality that both Rivers and Loodmeal must relate to. Yes, it's going well in the north, but it's not thanks to today's government. I still claim that we have a government that does not understand North Norway. Tomorrow the state budget comes, and then we'll see if they'll do anything about it. We also see that they have great promises about transportation, and that's good. There was a strong commitment in the transport plan. But one example: when Solvik-Olsen is 300 million. SEK of tolls on the road package Helgeland, still missing 450 million. kr. We'll see if he wants to do something about it tomorrow. Then we have a government that also has a clear course towards a digital division in our country. Last week, broadband development grants were distributed. There were applications over 500 million. NOK from 102 municipalities. Only 30 completed their applications. When we know that this government will only spend 50 million. kr for a need of perhaps 3 to 4 billion. kr, it goes a long time before it's in place. Treasure to the richest – that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1371	In his speech today, the Prime Minister was concerned about whether the representatives of the Workers' Party had received speech points, because we were talking about unemployment all the time. I can reassure the Prime Minister; the representatives of the Labour Party do not need speech points to be occupied by the unemployed. We owe 139,000 unemployed to give our attention. They are many, and many families are affected. That's why we're concerned that we have to spend the big money on the real challenges. That's why we don't think it's great that the 50 richest people get 1,000 million. kr on sharing. What would have been amazing, on the other hand, was if the Prime Minister could give us one answer: an answer to how many jobs this tax haven't given us. It would have been okay to bring it with you. It is possible to suspect the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party that they have also received voice points today. There should have been a number on that list, one should have talked about all the new jobs that have been created because of the tax burden. But I think there was another word at the top of the speech points of the Right and Advance Party representatives today, and it's black-painting, because it's been a recurring theme in this debate that we black-paint.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1377	I would like to illustrate it this way: Yesterday I told you in my article about a project where drug users at home in Gran through a project that Nav has funded come out of work. I think the prime minister has been there. 70 pst. of them come out to work – it’s quite amazing. Today I heard that Health Minister Höie was concerned about the drug addicts. There's a close link between having work and getting out of a drug addiction. But the project no longer has funding, the employees have to be cancelled. And what was the Minister of Health's comment on Twitter to my post yesterday? He sat in the hall when I held it. Well, it was that Aasrud's representative had a trust mark with black paint. I find it quite disrespectful to the employees who work to get drug users into work, and not least to the drug users who are covered by such a project. So if there's someone who should think a little bit differently, that's the government. I'm afraid that's not going to happen, and that's exactly why we need a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1381	The king showed in his throne that the foreign policy situation is more challenging and unpredictable. He referred to the Middle East, terrorism and Ukraine. He also indicated that we need to invest more in the defense. Norway shall carry out its tasks in the north, and in addition we shall contribute to the strengthening of NATO in the east. The long-term defence plan submitted provides the defence sector with a necessary economic boost. But as it is designed, there is a danger that it will weaken its defence capacity, because we need to safeguard the necessary flexibility that the Defence must have, and also have the necessary presence in the north, we still need a balanced defence – a defence that has a strong land power, which has a maritime defence, and which has an air defence. Then we cannot do as the government's proposal is that we postpone all the necessary investments in the Army, in air protection, artillery and upgrading tanks – the army's device, which one now wants to investigate once more. It has been investigated four to five times since 2011, exactly the same device and proposals for which we are going to invest, have been there all along. There is no reason to postpone this decision. And we can't reduce Home Security in a situation where it should be strengthened. Nor can we put a coastal defence in a situation where it should be maintained and strengthened. Yes, it's absolutely right and important that we still have 52 fighter planes, that the frigates should sail more, that we have to get the new helicopters, the NH90, to land on the frigates. Yes, we need new submarines, and we need to strengthen special forces, cyber defence and intelligence. But the long-term plan doesn't take on board is that all this is possible if we do what's most important, first, take on the basis of what we have, and strengthen the defense for the next four to five years, instead of just seeing eight and ten years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1389	The solution is simple: We have ordered 28 fighter planes. If we postpone the next 18 for five years, if we keep Andeya airstation any longer, without starting an uncertain investment on Evenes, and if we keep the Orion planes any longer, there's room for all of these investments, even in the country power, in the years that are coming. We must postpone the large investments, and we must also limit the uncertainty contained in the unrealistic savings proposals and the efficiency measures in the long-term plan. If they do not keep targets, there is only one effect of them and it is ramcut. And we all know where it's coming from – it's going to be on the ground. So this might be the most important decision the Storting is going to make in the harvest. It's important to take seriously, we have to keep a balanced defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1392	It fell to the right representatives to the chest that we in the Workers' Party do not find that the nation is in a perfect state at the moment, that we allow ourselves to point out the fact that there are 139 000 people who do not have a daily function to go to, that there are hardly any new jobs being created on this government's watch. In their self-righteousness, the Right Representatives meet us with rhetoric about black paint and long outlines of everything that has been done. It is a poor comfort to those who actually no longer have their daily work, for whom they are paid – those who wonder if they can pay their bills tomorrow, whether they can keep the house, and what the future looks like. In a situation with such a large proportion of the unemployed, the differences in the nation are increasing, and we have heard the Prime Minister and several of her party traps argue that there are important differences, but we have a situation where the differences are increasing. I'm from Nordland County. There is no crisis, fortunately. It's a growing state, with hardworking people with a lot of opportunities that you want to put into practice. Exports to the nation are increasing, perhaps primarily because of currency fluctuations. Many new roads are being built, and that is not strange – we have an ambitious national transport plan, which we presented in 2013. But that doesn't mean we don't have challenges. There is growth in the number of persons employed – net job growth in 2015 in the Nordic countries was 875. It's not impressive, but it's going to be positive. But it's also there that the growth is mostly in the public sector. One challenge for Nordland is that we export our young workforce southwards, because we don't have jobs to offer that are adapted to the training many young people want to take. There are too few of us who undertake and take education, and we have too low population growth compared to the rest of the country. Yes, there's a lot going on, it's going the right way in Northern Ireland too, but it's not going well enough. We have greater ambitions for this county, we have greater ambitions for this nation as well. And what's the challenge? Index Nordland, produced each year by Norduniversitet, shows that the main challenge is to make use of the resources available there and the financial framework conditions to make the necessary investments. This government has talked about the importance of the northern regions for the nation. In the census, this was not mentioned in one word. No action is being followed up; it is hardly affected in this debate. Differences in this country are increasing. It's time we got a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1408	We have heard today and yesterday that several of the representatives from the Right are almost indignant that the Workers' Party and others have said that the Norwegian model is in danger. That's nice, because this is not rhetoric from the Workers' Party – no, it's almost like an election vow from Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. In her 2013 national meeting, she said: ‘The Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people.’ It can't be said more clearly. That's what the Advance Party wanted to go into government to change. They wanted to build up developed rights and create a society where individuals were more successful in their own. And they've succeeded, they've got a new work environment law, they've got more temporary jobs, and in the case of trade unions, they've lost their collective legal rights. The large money is not spent on creating jobs; it is used in tax cuts for billionaires in the country. The right-hand side is unable to answer why it's right to spend 1,000 million. kr on tax cuts to the 50 richest. It's such a wrong use of money that you can almost not believe it's true, but that's what's the brutal reality. It is probably nice for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to distribute tax cuts, but in the Workers' Party we choose differently. Sometimes you are asked what you are most proud of in Norway. Then my answer is always: equality. The fight, fought by brave men and women, has made boys and girls today grow up as freer people, and it has had more to say for Norwegian economy than all our revenues from oil. We're used to the fact that equality stands still when the right hand parts control. The new thing with this government is that it does not stand still, but it goes the wrong way. The agents that we know work are built up. Tina Bru said in an article earlier that this was almost Trump rhetoric. No, that's the honest truth. And it's not just the Workers' Party that says it. Minister of Equal Opportunities Solveig Horne met for the equality debate here in Stortinget, and she said it herself, straight out: ‘The critique of the past few weeks is that we are immature, and some say that we have put Norway back into the 1950s. Then I want to say that I agree with those who say we might be the retro-government. Retro is known as being back again and modern again.» No, retro equality policy is not modern. There was therefore an overall opposition to the gender equality report of the government and gathered on a number of measures adopted against the votes of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1426	Norway is going in the wrong direction in a number of areas — not dramatically at single points, but slowly, but surely we are going the wrong way. That is the threat to the Norwegian model. 2017 can't be fast enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1429	Today we have heard many representatives from the Right who use their posts to claim that we from the Workers' Party are black painters and are unable to enjoy what is going well. It must be because it bothers the Right to get these descriptions from reality. As I said in my previous post, I'm happy for what's going well, also in North Norway. Then I have to admit that unlike the representative of Rivers, who is speaking more northerly than I am, I live in North Norway, and I travel a lot in North Norway. There are up to several in the Right who obviously know that I am a partner in a business with 170 employees, and I am proud to have been involved in building up and establishing. But I would like to ask that the right-wing representatives stand in line to take credit for the success of that company and other seafood companies. On the contrary, I have actually recorded that Seafood Norway has just slaughtered the government's plan for growth in the seafood industry. Listen to me, President and all of you who claim that we in the Workers' Party are black-painting: ‘The Government’s proposed growth model for the salmon industry will neither contribute to the Storting’s leadership in terms of clearer regulation, predictability nor improved lice control. Instead of increased food production and more jobs, the result will be the opposite, says Chairman Inger-Marie Sperre in Seafood Norway.’ We saw the same thing when former fisheries minister Aspaker practically set fire on the coast by not stating that the participant law and the Fish Sale Act were to be established. At least she spent a terrible amount of time getting there. There was even a riot on the lawn outside here. These foundations were the government's intention to tear down. I stand here and can confirm that we have a government that does not understand North Norway, and I look forward to the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1446	A lot goes well in Norway. As we said earlier in the debate, most people would trade with us. I notice that the Right Party and Advance Party representatives are almost insulted because we are not standing here unisonously and honouring what is good in our country, but that is not why we are elected to this room. We're here to look forward to: what are the challenges, what are the problems, what are the shortcomings, what can we do better, what values should inspire us? I recognize – let me say it this way – from the time of government the long lists. I think those who have made the most completed script here come from the government side with long lists of small and large. But what's the main picture we're facing? It's the high unemployment rate, the highest of 20 years, of 5 pst., 139,000 individuals and their closest. And then there's the alarming relationship that's given little attention in the debate: our professional population is increasing by 30,000 to 40,000 a year, the number of jobs is falling. The number of out-of-work jobs is increasing strongly in 2016. So here we have a future wave of social security coming at us. There are hardly any new jobs in the job creation machine in Norway, which is the private sector, they come into the public sector, which we have talked about, and we have very low investments. And then we have all of the problems. There is no need for jobs to be done in growing cities, technology to be introduced to solve tasks in new ways – SSB says that maybe 30 pst. By 2030, jobs will be lost and climate challenges will disappear. Yes, the oil price has fallen, but it cannot explain everything, and it is the opposition's role to ask: is policy working? Is the money used correctly? Is that sure? We hear that the Right has warned that the time for the major reforms should now be over. We can't afford any more. Well, 1 billion. kr to the 50 richest actually tells the most – 1 billion. kr to the 50 richest, but we can't afford Physak, physical activity in school, there we must be detained. My good colleague Helleland said it this way: it's amazing, these numbers with those that are getting richer. Well, we have to ask -- here's the essence: priority, values, ambition for the community -- what's this about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1454	This end of the debate should put the spotlight on it. What are the big problems? How do we counteract the differences? The Labour Party has a long list of policies in the areas and reforms, the values that will inspire efforts to equip Norway for the years ahead – great tasks that will require the very best of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1457	There's a lot of talk that populism is on the rise in different places in the world. There are many good and less good reasons why this is happening, but one common feature in all these countries is that they are characterised by political contempt. It's very far from the U.S. and Donald Trump to Norway, and fortunately we haven't been given the same degree of political contempt here at home. But when I'm traveling, I notice that it's very, very far from people's everyday lives and everyday problems to the daily fixation with words that we're doing here in Oslo. If there's one thing that's really dangerous to our political system, it's that the political contempt increases, the contempt that people feel when they see and hear politicians say one thing and do something else, or that talks people after their mouths to score cheap points. What people expect of us is not that we always promise gold and green forests. Nor do they expect us to agree on everything. But what they expect is that we can formulate clear and clear positions – what we think about the most important issues in Norway. Then it must gradually begin to become quite clear to people that it is approaching election campaign. I think that the rhetoric and debates we have are starting to become more and more marked by the fact that we're going to disagree to disagree, and I also think that very many of the answers and solutions are starting to grow wretched. We have just heard the representative Gahr Støre talk about that he will answer what values will govern us in the future. But there can also be some clear points of view. I have to mention some examples. The working party has been in charge of an air passenger charge — but they are against the charge imposed. They are in favour of rail reform – but they are opposed to the reform adopted. They are for a five-year teacher education — but they are against the new five-year teacher education adopted. They are unclear about taxes, inheritance taxes, immigration, whether we are going to drill or not, etc. But the most important thing is maybe the municipal reform. The whole of Norway remains as a single big question mark after the representative Gahr Støre has almost canceled the ‘live’ on TV. I am also thinking of the 60 rapporteurs from the Labour Party who have been in the storm of a merger and who are now left as a question mark. I just have to say that when the voters in September next year are going to put the note in the urn, they have to know clearly what the parties mean. What are their positions? It's not often I boast of the Center Party, but they're at least very clear about what they think about the different reforms and about the policies that the government has stood for – they want to reverse everything pretty much. I hope we can have a clearer debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1472	This throne debate began yesterday with the Right Confrontation of the Workers' Party because we have summed up the promises made by the Workers' Party and pointed out that they are not funded. Then we got in response from the Workers' Party that the Right must end with its calculator policy. I'll recommend all the games to use the calculator. If you don't, you'll make promises you can't make, and you'll end up in a situation that the Workers' Party is in now, where you either have to cancel the promises you've made, or go to the elections to increase the tax pressure considerably more than they've given the impression. In many ways – I would say – the Workers' Party has gone from once to being the eagle of Norwegian politics to becoming a kind of warder. It's when you don't use a calculator, it's when you're not prepared, it's when you haven't thought through and calculated the promises you make, that you end up in the situation that the Labour Party is in now, a situation where the Labour Party leader can criticize the government for spending too much money in the morning and too little money in the evening. Then one has simply let the irresponsibility and populism take over. I want to go so far as to say that there is a new social democracy we are facing, a social democracy that no longer takes credit for the fact that the proposals that they make actually hold water, but that is most concerned with criticising our policies – rather than promoting their own alternatives. It has also been noted in this debate, where criticism is levelled against the government's tax concessions. Well, if the Workers' Party really thinks so, if there's a policy behind the rhetoric, they're going to have to choose to reverse the tax concessions then – then they're going to have to choose to increase the tax burden on Norwegian business by 20 billion. kr in the next year's budget. If they're not going to do that, they're also going to tone down the rhetoric, so that it fits the policy. I've just been talking about the Workers' Party. There are two more parties who want to take over power. One of them we woke up to today early: the centre party, which is the preferred government partner of the Workers' Party, a party that says that they should either go to government or in opposition, now says that if they do not have to renegotiate the EEA Agreement, they do not go to government either. There's a signal out to a lot of export companies, who are in a difficult transition, that a new majority can mean tearing away the carpet under the main trade agreement they deal with every single day. We have read in the book of Jens Stoltenberg – which has been widely referred to in this debate on the throne, and which is otherwise quite good – that he draws out how aggressive he became when the Senterpartie last raised the discussion on the EEA agreement. I wish the current leadership of the Workers' Party had been as clear as the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1483	This debate shows that we have a government that should want them to be commentators and not political craftsmen. The unemployed receive motivational advice. The opposition is given communications councils, and the government is more concerned about the concerns about unemployment than they are about unemployment itself. They'd rather talk about how we talk, rather than talk about how they're going to act. Rather, they want to look with light and light for positive signs, so they can blow them up, rather than stick to these completely sober facts: we have the highest unemployment rate and the lowest employment rate of over 20 years. Almost no jobs are created in this country. These are the sober, objective facts, and this is happening on the watch of this government. The Labour Party has made it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. We already did that when we put ourselves in government, for example. by reducing corporation tax. While we have a seat in opposition, we have contributed to a tax settlement that even Civita – let me say it this way, they are not exactly a speaker for social democracy – but even Civita saw the tax settlement as more or less a blue copy of the policy of the Labour Party in that field. Then it's funny to hear the characteristics from the Right of Enterprise Policy to the Workers' Party. In the context of the work on the new party programme, I can remind you that we have developed and sent out a number of proposals to boost both industrial locomotives in our country, so that they can create more jobs, and to make it easier for entrepreneurs to start up new businesses, new viable, profitable enterprises of importance both for their communities and for their country. But that's one thing we haven't done. We have not taken advantage of tax cuts that do not work, which do not contribute significantly to creating jobs, which on the contrary seem highly unsocial, because those who have a lot are the ones that get the most. Then I register that the representative Frölich says that here are the people who are disunity only for disunity, and that it contributes to political disdain. He uses reforms as an example. But no, the Labour Party is opposed to reforms that do not work. We are for reforms that work. In position, we pushed forward the Nav reform. We are promoting pension reform, unpre-reform, child care reform. In the opposition, we have taken responsibility, negotiated a stronger police reform, a university and high school reform. We formed the basis for the tax settlement, and when we get back into position, we will have reforms and a knowledge gap for the labour market, reforms for schools, too early efforts, so that we can catch up with kids much earlier than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1494	In the 2013 election campaign, we spoke from the Right that we had an oil-dependent economy. We presented a need for conversion. We talked about increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and we said it was important to bet on education and research. It was the battle themes in the 2013 election campaign. Fortunately, I record that no one from the opposition today is attacking us because we talked about having an oil-dependent economy, or that we were talking about a need for conversion in the Norwegian economy, or that we said we had to increase the competitiveness of business. There might be reason to look a little bit more thoroughly at some of the numbers presented from this pulpit. When it is constantly repeated that the Workers' Party created 350 000 jobs in the previous period, two thirds in the private sector, there is another figure that can also be included, and that is that the employment rate among the Nordics fell from 2008 to 2014, from 72 pst to 68 pst. It is also a fact that most jobs in the private sector were filled by labour immigration, because we were in high economic conditions and needed to pick up labour. Many of them have now emigrated again because time is different, and the economy is different. We know that tax incentives lead to increased competitiveness in Norwegian companies, simply because they have more capital left to convert, to develop, to think new. Of course, if we allocate money to companies in the form of tax reliefs, it can be used to increase expenditure in the public sector. It's not a problem to take that money and hire people in the public sector instead. Those who say it as medicine from this pulpit forget that we have to distinguish between jobs that fill the state budget and jobs that drain from the state budget. We honestly believe that it is important in the current situation to create more jobs that can fill the state budget. We're also in the good process of doing that. It's been showing some of the headlines from the media lately. Finally, a comment on Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, who says that Sjømat Norway is slaughtering the government's proposal for a management model: it's wrong. The slaughtering of Norway by Seafood is the setting and decision of the Stortinge to a sustainable management model, a growth model for aquaculture. I have participated fully in that work. I heard no counter-representation from the Workers' Party when that model was adopted, and as the government is now trying to put life into action – no infections, nor from the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen. That a business organisation representing the actors can be critical is perfectly OK, but it is not the government they are attacking, they are attacking the decision of the Storting. I then propose that the representative, Berg-Hansen, promote a Document 8 proposal in which she explains where she disagrees with the parties on the Stortinget, which gave almost a majority position in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1505	Earlier today, the Prime Minister seemed to be the Prime Minister of reverse countries, and so it has continued through this debate. The right-hand side is very good at neutering – good at talking like you're on your way in one direction and then defending measures that draw in the opposite direction. One talks about having bad advice and worrying about how the opposition is going to finance its election vows, while one next time defending 18.5 billion. kr used for completely ineffective tax cuts. One says that one will reduce the inequality, while one next time it seems great that the richest people in Norway – 50 of them – have received 1 billion. kr on the sharing of this government. One says that one will fight poverty, but defends policies that have made some of the poorest families in this country less viable. That's how you can keep going and keep going. For the wealthiest in the country, the line of inheritance now applies. Inheritance is to be rewarded. The government has rigged the tax system for major differences by systematically removing or reducing taxes on the income of the richest: inheritance, wealth, property, etc. At the same time, a remote version of the workline applies to those who have the least. It's just how you can figure out that it's a good policy for work to take from sick people the child supplement in the disability. As if it were suddenly to end discrimination against people with disabilities in our working life, as if it were suddenly to make sick people healthy. Proposal No. 8, from SV, which we're going to vote on afterwards, is just a suggestion to do something about this. It is at least a proposal to identify the consequences of the cuts in the children’s supplement to disability. In the course of the debate, we have received signals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party that they want to support that proposal. I'm curious if there'll be a majority for that. In particular, I would like to ask for clarification from the Left Transparency Party, which should be concerned with clarifying what the social consequences of this decision have actually been. Then I am looking to get a response from the Progress Party, which has not talked about them in this debate, and which has not wanted to comment on Robert Eriksson's complaint to the destitute. Unfortunately, there is little trace of any similar willingness to recognise that one has been involved in an unfair policy of discrimination. SV has also proposed a plan for all new cars sold in Norway in 2025 to be zero-emission cars. It would surprise me very much if it is not possible to get such an order from Stortinget. Well, it can't be that the parties that are engaged in making themselves like the motorists' lots are actually the parties of the petrol. But that's what you are, if you're first and foremost concerned with paying for a fossil car, and are not concerned about getting the best possible technology as quickly as possible, as our proposal puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1519	We've been through a debate that shows that we're approaching a big shot. There is a debate that clarifies the boundaries between the parties – in the policy of diversity and in the policy of centralisation. Many have argued that Norway is a good country to live in. That's right. It also means that in the years to come we are able to take care of the best in this country, and that we are on guard against proposals that both increase disparities and weaken local communities throughout the country. It's a cross of thought that this government as well as it can try not to relate to the centralization that they're in the process of creating. It is amazing that it is almost impossible to get governments and large-scale figures to talk about changes in the police that are now creating reactions across the country – in Troms and Finnmark, where rapporteurs and communities are upset, in Sogn and Fjordane, where the rapporteurs of the Left also say that this process does not keep goals, in Agder, in Eastfold and several areas. That process is poorly thought out. It is implemented in such a bad way that not least that part of the bulk of the population as a condition that this should have a good local involvement should be willing to participate on proposals which allow the process to be carried out in a completely different way. The centre party gives them the opportunity through today's debate. Then I must also be allowed to comment on the municipal reform a little. It is quite strange that the Right and Advance Party want to jump over the local and voluntary processes of community mergers that have been. It's almost as if they're going to pretend that it hasn't happened, as if it hasn't happened, as if it's just the county councilmen's recommendation and the Storting's treatment for spring that's going to be crucial in this case. It's like they kind of want to swing away over 200 local referendums. The centre party says that we believe that we should now take account of the voluntary processes and have respect, whether local authorities have said yes or no. This chaos, as the representative Frölich mentioned, was not created by the Workers' Party. It is neither created by the local politicians nor by the Workers' Party. It's created by a government that wants to rematch every time people locally say something different than the Right and Advance Party wants. I should also like to make a brief explanation of vote. The centre party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 8 and 11. We are not going to vote in favour of any of the proposals that have been put forward on Nicaragua. I think the Minister of Knowledge well illustrated that this matter deserves good consideration in committee, and that a position should be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1532	In the speech of the throne, the King said, "It is a leadership task to explain that we must accept changes." This is a task the Right and the Advance Party have willingly taken on: to explain that we have to accept 19,000 more temporary employees, explain that the 139 000 unemployed are almost a necessary outcome of the transition in Norway, and explain that 1 billion. kr to the country's 50 richest closest is a necessity. In North Norway we hear daily the Right Party and the Advance Party explain the necessary changes we see: that it is centralised within the Directorate of Fisheries, Innovation Norway, the Directorate of Economic Management, the Food Authority, the tax offices and much more, and that we must accept that the budgets of the Nordic countries, Troms and Finnmark counties are cut by 800 million. kr in regional development funds, RDA funds, and through the income system. You can probably discuss whether this is necessary changes or not, I think it is absolutely not. But in the big picture there are some changes we're not going to accept. The Labour Party does not accept that unemployment is now the highest in two decades, we do not accept what we see now, a falling employment rate or that almost no new jobs are created in Norway. This is not how to rust Norway for the future. We still need strong district policies, not centralisation and cuts. We need Norway to take a stronger role in the climate area to equip us for the future and in research, renewable energy and the transfer of skills from the petroleum industry to wind and solar energy. We need the fight against non-response to counter future teaching shortages — and to move from word to word in early effort. Nor do we equip Norway for the future by making Norway more oil dependent than ever. The fact that the government has spent more oil money in three years than the red-green government did in eight years just means emptying the piggyback of our children and grandchildren to spend 20 billion dollars. kr in tax cuts. I still have the pleasure of hearing some of the representatives of the Right and Advance Party of Northern Norway who have had the floor and have spoken in anger about black paint, explaining whether they agree with their parliamentary leader that it is fantastic with 1 billion. kr in tax cuts to Norway's 50 richest. I also want to ask them to go in and see where these 50 richest people in Norway actually live. So far, government parties have not been able to point out a single concrete job as a result of tax cuts. Then it may not be so strange that they do not want to talk so loud about the 139 000 who are now completely out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1543	This is the last persuasion debate in the pouring period. Now let's imagine that the government of Solberg is going off after the next election, and that it's going to be settled after a four-year growing-up period. What's really going to be written? There are no major welfare reforms à la babysitting reform or major development of Norwegian quality of life, no major efficiency programme for the public sector, no major international agreements à la divisional agreement in the north. It's left that we've had a strong growth in young people, a strong growth in the number of state bureaucrats, we might get a few municipalities that merge, and the map gets a little bit different. I think it's going to be left with two things. One is a government that has used oil money like no one else before, which has doubled the deficit on the state budget, and which pays out oil money at a pace Norway has never seen its husband. I think it'll be rewritten. And then it will be written that at the same time they got 139,000 unemployed – the lowest employment rate in 20 years and greater exclusion than in a long time. We have repeated many times that in our eight years, 355,000 jobs were created in Norway. The Prime Minister says that when there are now only 25 000 — most of them in the public sector — in the last three years, it is because of the shock that an oil price shock occurred in the summer of 2014. In 40 of the 50 years we've had oil, the oil price has been less than $50, and in 45 of the 50 years we've had oil, the investments have been lower than they are in 2016. But in most of these 50 years, it has been possible to run Norwegian business and Norwegian economy in a way that creates new jobs, gets young people into work and has work for everyone. You always do conversion, but the goal has been to keep the people at work. Just when we have less revenue from the oil sector, it is so important to use the entire workforce for productive value creation. We can't afford to let 140,000 people go unemployed when we have less oil revenue. That's now we have to get people into new business. In the last 40 years, the investigation section of the Grand Duchy examined the employment growth rate in Norway, which was about twice as high as when the Workers' Party was in government, as it was when the Right was in government. Could it be that the Right consistently gets shock or consistently is unlucky when they are in government, or could it be that the policy is not working? Twenty-billion-dollar treasure ticket. kr does not generate employment growth. There are greater differences and less money for health, school and care, but this does not give rise to economic development. That is why this policy must be changed and we must have a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1556	A long talk debate is approaching the end, and one gets some associations when one sits here. Even I discovered that almost a year ago we ordered tickets for Marcus & Martinus’ concert in Oslo Spectrum to my two little boys and myself. The reason I came up with it was that the song "You're great" would be a great one there. Because I've been accused of being one who has honoured tax relief, that it was so amazing, and it shows a little bit of the pettyness of the argument from the Workers' Party. We sent out the quote very quickly from what I responded to the reply from Hadia Tajik yesterday, but the ‘spin doctorate’ in the Workers' Party has continued, despite the fact that the quotation is out. The quotation is: ‘I think it is fantastic that those in Norway who have the opportunity to create jobs are given this opportunity’, etc. – with Hallingdal, Sunnmaere, Trøndelag, small and medium-sized enterprises that do not need property taxes if they are to create and invest in their own enterprise. But even the party leader of the Workers' Party uses this platform for direct misquote. It's okay. This debate has also shown that there is agreement on one thing: we want the best for our fellow people in this country. That we disagree on the instruments is something else. Some think that the most important thing to combat unemployment is to create more, others think that the most important thing is to tax more. It's a straightforward political dividing line. Some believe that the most important thing to ensure that we have small differences in our society is that more people get a foot within the workplace, equipped with the necessary knowledge and skills to stand on their own. Others think the most important thing is to tax more. It's a straightforward political dividing line. Some people think that the green shift needs a variety of instruments; others think it's primarily about taxing more. It's a straightforward political dividing line. Some believe that creating more ensures the best economic basis for well-being; others think the most important thing is to tax more. It's also a good political dividing line. Some people focus more on producing more companies that generate profits on their own; some place more emphasis on the need for enterprises to receive subsidies from the country. It's also a good political dividing line. Anyway, we have a government budget to be submitted tomorrow. I note that the Labour Party has been critical of the fact that Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, told about parts of the budget that concerned the green tax change. Well, the Labour Party called in to the press conference at the Right Country Meeting in 2013 to tell and lick from the coming state budget. Obviously, they forgot. A brief explanation of vote: with regard to the proposals that have been put forward, we will vote against them all. Proposal No. 1 by the Party of Advancement and No 12, from the Left, we would have liked the proposers to be able to turn this into a transmission proposal – in the case of successful headgear – on the basis of the introduction by Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, where he pointed out that the department has started work on a national regulation in order not to allow lucky facial features in a teaching situation. We hope that it can be adopted, and if not the Right will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1567	The last three years have shown a government that systematically increases the differences in society, a government that does not listen, neither to people nor to professionals. That also shows the debate we have had here in the last two days. Some of the claims that are repeated by this pulpit of the Right and the Advance Party, yes, they are none other than just Right and Advance Party representatives who believe in. And there are doubts about old, worn-out speech points, such as: that the weakening of the Working Environment Act equips Norway for the future, that the deterioration of the Working Environment Act gives more equality, and that when it becomes more difficult to get a firm job, it is actually easier to get it. Yeah, that's got to be a right-wing politician to believe in. Clearly, the general strike is forgotten. You don't listen to people and professionals, and you haven't learned. Not only are these kinds of weaknesses sold as actual forces, but they have also tried to defend the government's equality policy for these two days, and the representatives should have the opportunity to try. But also here the representatives of the government parties show that they do not listen, neither to people nor to professionals. The representative Bru pointed to statistics going in the right direction, for example: in the case of part-time data. That's right, and that's the result of the Labour Party policy when we ran. It still works. But what has the government done? Well, it has removed some of the measures that have worked in a positive direction. It will appear on the statistics. You've cut your dad's quota, it already seems on the statistics, fathers take off less leave, but the government continues to act like Comedian Ali and pretend that people and fathers have real freedom of choice. The equal pay gap is now increasing, it decreased under the Workers' Party. Kindergarten queues are growing for the first time since the conciliation. The only thing this government has done in equality policy is to weaken the tools that have worked. A single new initiative has not been taken to further equality — not one. That's why it's not just an overall opposition in the Storting that's in opposition to government's equality policy, which promoted more than 80 proposals during the discussion of the communication in ours. No, therefore, the gender equality ombudsman, the gender equality researcher, the employee side and the employer's side all slaughter this government's gender equality policy. What remains after three years of blue-blue government is that equality has been put in reverse. The working party, we want to move on. Retro is not in, and it doesn't get any more in that right-wing people continue to repeat it from worn-out speech points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1578	As mentioned, this is the last census before the next big shot, and it's always interesting to hear what the different games add up as rhetoric, because we're assuming that we're going to meet the whole next year. I have heard several stories – the stories from the Workers' Party that the differences are increasing, without qualifying them with content and without being willing to go into the discussion about what the reasons are. I think it's a challenge if the differences that make people less connected to Norwegian society and less able to be in work increase. But then you have to go into the reasons for this, and I tried to do that in my post. It has been clearly rejected by reference to a look-up in the Class Fight on how tax reliefs have been eliminated. So it's more important than the OECD's basic reports on what's the source of differences and how we can research see what's the recipe for further work. Of course, spending on care and mental health is important for a different society, not because it's so easy to read it out of the statistics the following year, but when you're on the side of Norwegian society every year, it creates the biggest inequalities we have. That's why people with the kind of medical challenges die a lot earlier than the rest of us do. The districts are said to have become more distinct between the city and the country. Well, is it? If we look at economic developments, Oppland, Hedmark, Nordland, Troms, Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane are doing well. It's typical counties we call districts. If we look at the development of the municipal economy over the last three years measured against the last four-year period of the red-green government: then there was zero growth in the municipal economy in Northern Ireland, minus 0.2 per capita, minus 0.2 in Troms and minus 0.2 in Finnmark, while in these three years there has been an increase of 0.8, 0.7 and 0.6 in the same counties. So it's going to be municipal economic growth now in these states. It was also a representative from the Workers' Party who was up and talking about the transport investments. The investments in North Norway are now at 18 p.m. in the case of national road appropriations, with a population of approx. 12 pst. So it's not like there's evidence that these differences are increasing. On the contrary, there are many signs that indicate that it is the opposite – it goes better in large parts of District Norway. I would like to welcome a discussion about differences, but it must be at something other than the level of rhetoric and a look-up in the class struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1597	It is now three years since the election, but the government party is still very busy talking about the previous government, and not least it is busy blaming the previous government – large and small. Dimensions: The government decides that extra light milk should be criminalised. Who's in debt? Well, according to the Minister of Agriculture, it's the Senter Party's fault. Now three out of four years have passed of this landfill period. It's time for the government party to take responsibility. The reforms and political project of the government can be summarised in three words: centralisation, bureaucracy and privatisation. But the period is also marked by the Progress Party in government and a new political method. Among other things, we need to discuss the increase in fuel taxes from the State budget without having the full information about what the government will propose. So it's like a set of Progress Party's emotional needs over the consideration of both the King and the Storing. And when the Progress Party introduces and receives a 40-billion bill. In new tolls, it is neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Transport! Of course it is. But they have to take responsibility. I think the voters are going through this. The last time today, we heard that the progress part wears out the sense measurements. What's interesting is the reaction from the party. Harald Tom Nesvik said that if there was just an election fight, so that one could get focus on the issues, everything was going to go better. One has a seat in government for three years, and then one has to focus on the issues. It shows that the Progress Party is better off than on political crafts. Minister of Fisheries Per Sandberg had stopped believing in polls. He would rather succeed in choices. The last time the voters got their say, the Progress Party had 9.5 pst. digestion. The Central Party will use this year to develop a clear alternative policy with a clear rural profile, an offensive European policy and a targeted industrial policy to create and secure Norwegian jobs across the country, and we will outsource a policy that looks at people across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1610	I can’t help commenting on the representative of Greece’s reference to the Marcus & Martinus concert: the song is not called “Fantastic”, but “Electric”, in fact, which otherwise completely alters the content of his article. [[muttering in the hall]] I was standing at the door yesterday with another non-responsive representative. We looked at each other, and the person said, "Are we going to slow down throne debates? After a few seconds we were a few about yes – not all single posts, but at best they can say something about what is happening in Norwegian politics now. And the most memorable thing, I think, from this debate is that a topic that is totally dominant in Europe, which is so central to European development, has finally dominated a debate on the throne: the increasing inequality. SV has talked about it, it has been a main commandment, but also the Prime Minister, the leader of the Labour Party and a number of other politicians have taken it up. One important reason why I think that – in addition to the enormous consequences it can have for trust, for public health, for lack of growth – is that we realize that what is happening in Europe, it finally hits Norway as well. We're not immune. There is, however, another feature of the increasing inequality, which may not have been so dominant in the debate. It is that, at the same time as the differences in Europe have increased – with quite considerable consequences in many countries and much more than in Norway – we are also inside another, let us call it, differences, simply a development from being relatively homogeneous countries, many countries in northern Europe, to becoming culturally and religiously diverse societies. Remember, in 1950 Norway was almost completely white and almost entirely Christian. By 2030, 2030, 2050, we will be many more religious, and we might have 30-40 pst. with a migrant background, which is also a broad European trajectory. What's really scary is if we get societies with both great class differences and far greater cultural and other differences that are more common, at the same time – for several reasons, but perhaps most fundamental because we're used to being a country with little differences, where the divides between us are small. If we were to become a country where the divides increase along many dimensions, it might be harder to take care of some of the most fundamental and positive values in Norway. Therefore, it is also in integration policy that participation is so closely linked to the increasing differences. It would be, I think, unlikely to be positive if even the Norwegian political debate in the last year towards the decision-making process was influenced by this, preferably by the sense of reality – about what is the cause – but not least by a competition about what is the best and most important action that works. Then it would be that we combined into a central European and Norwegian challenge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1623	It is unclear whether Solhjell will miss the debate on the throne, but the debate on the throne will miss Solhjell – that is the way it was – because what he brought up here, I think, was absolutely fundamental for what we are facing now. In many of the trends we see in Europe – with unemployment, with populism, with increasing differences, with people falling through society – we can say that we are not there. But we see signs that we're being affected by it, that we're not immune, and we can actually be on our way. It's important to bring it with you. Not least the uncertainty. In many European countries, people experience fear. I don't think that's the case in Norway, that it's fear, but it's uncertainty, growing insecurity, and we have to include that when we know how important trust is in our country. Erna Solberg believes that the Workers' Party only talks about taxes when it comes to differences – she doesn't look up, but she nods, and then I've been perceived correctly – but that's wrong, Prime Minister! Tax is not irrelevant; it says something about priorities, it says something about distribution. But when we have a different profile, it's because we want to use those resources in other ways, to achieve other goals, and the list is long over what we want to do. With regard to the drugs field, I fully agree that we have supported a stronger commitment to the drugs field. Now we need to have a debate on policies that work in the field of drug treatment, because neither should it be a question of giving a lot of money; we also need to look at how a correct response, not least in the transition from treatment to work. So we want an early effort reform in school, not just to talk about it, but to do it – to give the money to the teachers, to set up the teams around the students. We want to bet more strongly on the profession, so that the skilled workers get the strong base they need to be a driving force in our economy. We want a skills reform through work that can teach us to cope with the big shifts that are coming. We want a quality promise for the care of the elderly, the use of welfare technology. We want a knowledge gap for digitisation across society. We want a value creation programme for the oceans, welfare services, etc. – great ambitions, where we use resources differently in the coming years. We want to complete the pension reform, so that the major reform of our time for savings and also to stimulate employment works. We want to further develop the welfare society for all – not slip into a welfare society where the welfare society should help the most vulnerable, while others, in a way, can be on the side. First and last of all, it's work. Work is the red thread. If we don't succeed in offering people work, getting young people into work, getting them into work — a little work, on the way to full employment — then everything else they're trying to do will be difficult. That is why there will be a major thread in the Labour Party's policy this year towards the elections – clarifying the differences, clarifying the choices and showing that we are successful here, we can maintain that model and avoid those developments that we do not like coming all the way to our borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1661	I think it has been a good talk of the throne and a good debate of the throne. It's getting the difference. At the same time – perhaps I insult much of the hall – I also found that there are no huge differences between the Right and the Labour Party in Norwegian politics. There's a big difference in this debate, but when we think back to previous chronology debates, when the Labour Party was in position and the Right in opposition, I feel that some of the articles we heard from the various parties, also come out today, but with slightly different representations. Once upon a time, the red-green government experienced a demanding situation with the financial crisis. They handled it quite well. Then I must also say that the Solberg administration has experienced an oil price drop and that that conversion has happened faster. They have also dealt with it remarkably well, and have not experienced praise from those who have differed. I would also like to say that it is a challenge of centralisation and urbanisation, but there is certainly nothing that has happened overnight. It happened a little bit of the same thing under the red-green government. It is easy to be in the Norwegian Parliament in 2016 – compared to many other countries. A year ago, we were impressed by the debate on the Mediterranean. We should be aware that during 2016, 600 children lost their lives. We know there's more to escape. I would have liked us to have also addressed that debate, where we saw Norway entering into the international, demanding situation in which we are. The Christian People's Party took up two main themes. The only thing that went on was inequality. That seems to me to have been a good response, among other things. by the Prime Minister, who in his speech today just said something about what we should do to lift vulnerable groups in our society. The other thing we brought up was family policy. It seems to me that it has been very disappointing how little we have come up with in this debate, because it is important for family members to have good family policy arrangements, and when so many parties are now thinking about that very topic, I would have liked it to have come out more clearly. I thought it was a little exciting, what Solhjell says: Norway is changing. We're more often, we're more colorful, more multicultural, more beautiful than ever. Then I think it's important that we raise just the values we've built the country. I just want to end briefly with an explanation of vote. Christian People's Party votes for SV's proposal, no. 8 — Proposal, No. 10 and 11 and the proposal of the Centre Party, No. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1676	I drew because I heard a representative from the Right talk about political contempt – it's dangerous, it's a udder, and we have to take care of it. I agree. But I can tell you that I've seen the politician disdain in the White Eye. I found it in the canteen at Rolls Royce in Hordaland. There were 300 workers who had received notice of termination, people who had been informed that the government had submitted a package of measures aimed at the South and the West. As the unemployment figures show, and as Stavanger Aftenblad has pointed out today, it was neither as targeted nor as large as they had been told. What was most real in that canteen was that the 50 richest people in that country get tax cuts corresponding to the annual income of 2,000 ordinary workers, a salary they were in danger of losing. There were none of them – who could not only lose their job, but also their termination pay – who thought it was something very amazing. These – and the 139 000 other unemployed – are not rhetorical; they are real people who need real action. The Labour Party has presented a larger and more targeted package of measures, with concrete proposals such as stimulating the market for products needed – such as those produced by Rolls Royce – and with proposals such as establishing a loan guarantee scheme for the mainland industry. I hope that those who believe something about combating unemployment will look at it again. A little has been said in this debate about what business owners in the West want. Those I've met, want to keep their workers at work, because fortunately it is that there are people who create conversion in this country – and have done it for 100 years – not politicians and not tax havens. Then we have to stop getting rid of the most important resource we have. I will never hold the government responsible for neither oil price falls nor international economic cycles. But a government that spends money on tax bills, that doesn't provide jobs, and a government that doesn't use the opportunity to help keep people in work, and to use the tools we have, I'll never forgive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1688	The Prime Minister talked about inequality in his post, and that's good, because we've gone from a situation where inequality was something left-wing worried about and the right-hand side explained to us was not a big problem, to today discussing what can do with increasing inequality. But then it's wrong when the Prime Minister says that she only got rhetoric to answer, because what she got was a real disagreement about what the inequality is about, and what we're going to do with it. What is the source of the difference? Clearly, education and the other things that the Prime Minister addressed in his speech are a very important part of this debate. But it's also the way that the image of international and recent research in this area shows very clearly that there is a close connection between economic inequality and social problems, and that what kind of distribution policy, how we organize our working life, how we organize our housing market, and how we distribute wealth in a society, also has a lot to say about how we distribute power and opportunities. That's why we're so concerned about how the government's policy works in precisely those areas. How does fiscal policy work? Well, now tax policy is rigged for increasing differences. How does housing policy work? Well, housing policy is a driver of increased inequality, as long as the majority of the Stortinges do not dare to take up, among other things. in how our tax system works. What happens when you give poor people less life, as this government has done, among other things. with many misdemeanors? Well, the economic inequality is increasing, of course. What is the result of more temporary employment, etc.? I think the core of the disagreement is: do we think there is a problem with an economic and social policy that increases the distance in income and wealth between those who have the most, and those who have the least in our society? And do we think it is a problem whether we conduct a welfare policy and a privatisation policy that weakens the community? Will it lead to increased disparities and economic inequality lead to increased social problems? We believe that, and that is why we are so critical of the government's policy. Then the Prime Minister would have met better, I believe, if she had accused the Workers' Party of not giving the wrong rhetoric, but to point out what is a sad fact, namely that there is too much agreement between the government and the Workers' Party on politics in these matters, for example. the view on inheritance taxes or wealth taxes. But I'll leave that in this round. A brief explanation of vote at the end: SV will vote in favour of all the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA, except for proposal No. 4. for all the proposals from the Left, for the proposals No. 16 and 17, from the Central Party, and then we will vote against the proposal of the Progress Party. We experience that the Workers' Party Group has given Stortinget a good opportunity to deal thoroughly with the question of face-to-face clothing. The party of progress has not succeeded in getting it through to the government. That is why, in my view, the proposal is unprofessional, and the vote that follows is not a vote on the Storting's view of these plagues, but on the Storting's view of the Progress Party's work on the matter. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1701	Challenges require that we give high priority to jobs, especially in the private sector. That's what the Prime Minister said in his post this morning -- it's starting to be a few hours ago for all of us. It's easy to agree with. But the main criticism of the government's economic policy in this debate is that the priority job is not done. There is almost no private job creation, and despite a massive use of money. New records are constantly being set, and today – again – Stavanger Aftenblad reveals that the package of measures that the government claims is targeted at that region is a billion-dollar blow. They do not have the ability, despite their violent use of money, to prioritize the efforts needed to include more people in our working life, raise the employment rate and find the solutions that can lift the large, growing groups that are outside and are increasingly outside the labour market. But one billion to the 50 richest of the country they have prioritised, and the Prime Minister seems to be not entirely at home in a debate on inequality. But they have prioritised it, based on the incredibly old-fashioned idea that if we give more to those who have the most, it will automatically lead to more jobs, and then it will drip a little bit on us all. The representative Astrup was asked in the reply if he could give a single example of jobs created because these 50 people have received 20 million. NOK extra each, and there is no answer. But used directly, this money – only for the 50 richest – could create hundreds of jobs in the private sector. We could have gotten people to work instead of that money, and that's of course a question of distribution. I think it's a little alarming that the Prime Minister almost gets a little spin when she's confronted with the rise in inequalities, when she says she thinks we should have a more serious discussion. So both she and Trond Greece point out that the main differences arise between those who are inside and those who are out of work. Of course that's right. That's why it's so serious that the employment rate goes down, job growth fails, and there's going to be more and more young people out of work. So we're asking questions, because increasing differences, massive use of money that doesn't work, falling employment share and zero job growth in the private sector don't equip us for the future. This debate illustrates that this is a reality that requires us to put in place a government that takes Norway in a new direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1712	I think I can join all the representatives of Marthinsen said, and to most of what the Labour Party has said about inequality throughout the debate. In one year, it will hopefully be Jonas Gahr Støre who is Prime Minister during the throne debate. I look forward to that. The rhetoric of the Workers' Party in terms of social differences is very promising. It is not just rhetoric that is going on, and it is not rhetoric that will reduce the inequalities and injustices in Norway – that is the policy that will do – and here I want to challenge my good friends in the Workers' Party a little bit. So far, the Workers' Party has told us that they joined the tax settlement in spring to save the property tax. The surprise was therefore great when the representative Tajik today said that the tax settlement was almost a blueprint of the Labour Party's policy. It was new – for the contrast could hardly be greater between what Tajik said about the tax settlement, and the angry representatives of Henriksen and Aukrust from the Workers' Party expressed above the tax cuts to the richest. It can't be like 1 billion. kr to the country's 50 richest is terrible, while 1 billion. kr in share tax – of which most goes to the 0.2 richest pro-mills in the country – on the contrary is great. Then I get confused. The difference between wise tax cuts and unfair tax cuts is not in the range between the 0.2 richest pro-mills in the country and the 50 richest people in the country. Both are tax cuts to the richest elite in Norway. Trond Giske is quite right when he says that tax cuts of 20 billion. kr does not generate employment growth, but according to the party to Giske clearly gives tax cuts of 2 billion. I'm going to go for it. Since the Workers' Party believes that the tax cuts from the government are so bad, one must believe that the Workers' Party will go in to reverse these tax cuts when, after all, they have political power next year. It's not just a year until we have a new majority; we have one year to fill the new majority with political content. We are almost there that we have an overall opposition that has powerful tools, beliefs and policies that are needed to reduce the differences in Norway, but then you can't stop criticising the government's tax cuts. Then you can't go in for billions of tax laws to the same richest elite that you criticize Erna Solberg to satisfy. It is a bit that remains, but with one year to go, I feel confident that in the next debate on the throne we are discussing a whole new political direction for Norway, where the tax cuts of the right government are reversed, where the money goes to welfare and not to the richest, and where, for example, we are. has been persuaded by the Workers' Party to reinstate the inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1723	It's true as it's said: the last debate before a election is often marked by both slogans and perhaps a good deal of caricatures. It is often thought that you live in a little different countries – yes, I actually got several times the feeling that we live in a little different ages of Norway’s history – once we’ve heard this debate today. It's fascinating how a dozen people and their situation can kind of put the basic tone of some batches into absolutely all posts. I agree that differences have been a topic, and combating differences is one of the most important jobs that politicians do. That is why we in the Left have struggled that there should be free core time in the kindergarten for them with the worst advice and that we should have a lower price in kindergarten for them with the worst advice. It's focused, it reaches exactly those that we know it needs it all, most of all, and we're going to fight for those arrangements to expand. But while we are fighting for children's rights, we now see that the government has put forward a proposal that children should not have a right to complain to the Children's Convention, which I have stood here and fought for together with a lot of Right and Advance Party people in the past. We're excited to see what the Workers' Party is going to mean about it. Or when we put forward a fairly basic and simple proposal in the languages of the throne regarding the imprisonment of children, we'll now see if the Workers' Party intends to help us with that. The second important effort for the fight against differences is about drugs and psychiatry, and there we have been done a lot in the period that has now been. The second major challenge is to get the green shift, to create new, sustainable jobs, and then to put a massive effort on research and education. That's what we've done with the majority, but it's also clear that there's always been more places to study with the Left, that there's always been more student homes with the Left, and now we're also getting more support. Europe's debates have affected the debate on the throne, both with poverty and with certainty, but what is the most important thing that the main opposition party has raised in this debate? What's the first proposal you make in a new session, what's the first one you put forward as a Document 8 proposal as one of the most important things we should do? Well, it's about a ban on Nicab in Norwegian school. It is perhaps the most negative way in which Europe has influenced this debate. We in the Left do not fear the future. We have a threat to the future. We have faith that we can share in creating a better future. We believe that we can both combat differences in a country, and that we can take advantage of opportunities in a country, because it is always possible to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1738	The debate is starting well to go on overtime, and there's probably some of these issues we're coming back to, but I'll give some brief comments on the posts that have been held after my last one. First a little visit to an article that Trond Giske had yesterday, where I think he overcame himself in what I would call fairy tale of what was reality, and what had happened. There he said that the Labour Party in the throne debate for three years has demanded what we should do with unemployment, and that the government has said wait and see. I have spent time with, among others. to read Trond Giske's articles and Jonas Gahr Støre's articles from the debate on the throne in 2014. That was not a word about unemployment. The truth is that the Labour Party did not discover the increasing migration challenges, unemployment and challenges until May 2015, after the national meeting had not focused on it, nor did Jonas Gahr Støre talk about it. So that story to Trond Giske, I think it was necessary – in the form of the minutes – to be refuted. That is not in line with the Minutes of this debate. So to the question of inequality, I think it's good if we can get a good debate on what's important. The absolutely most important thing we do is to prevent inequality. The prevention of inequality is about good schooling, good growth, the possibility of everyone being included. Then what we do in the field of drugs, mental health protection and integration is incredibly important. And then you talk about other suggestions to fix today's inequalities, which, incidentally, aren't much greater than the inequalities we had 25 years ago. This is primarily something we repair on top of. But if you're going to fix it, it's twice as effective to do what the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have done, that's to provide free services, for example. nursery services. It is twice as effective to use the service offer to balance inequalities as it is to use the tax system to balance inequalities. Therefore, cheap and free services mean more than what you do in the tax system. I think SV should take it into account that it is important. The second part of this is the question of what taxation means. Several have mentioned in the reports to the government that changes in taxes on wealth do not give any more jobs. But today – and since all the parties on the left now put the most emphasis on the class struggle – Menon researchers are actually saying that employing everyone in the public sector is less powerful than hiring everyone in the public sector is doing. Yeah, we know that. There will always be a better employment effect of employing everyone in the public sector, right up to the last public sector job, when things are not going very well. But until then it will always be a better employment effect. However, the reports presented by the Labour Party last year also showed that only increasing – as the Labour Party proposes – public sector employment, through such incentives, rather than providing tax relief, will in the long term contribute to lower competitiveness. In the long term, it means fewer jobs, lower migration rates and more insecurity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1753	The representative Solhell pulled up some interesting lines, and I want to add some for the sake of the whole thing. The first large groups of Muslims who came to Norway were Pakistani in the 1970s, and then all were Muslims. There were, as far as I know, no extremists among them, and if there were any, the disappearing few in number. Then came this second generation, the so-called descendants, like me. In this group, some people joined the B gang, and then there were girls who topped up all the statistics on those who took the most percentage higher education — but no extremists either. Only now, in recent times, has extremism and radicalisation begun to happen – self-radicalisation in the gut room and online speeches by charismatic leaders who are recruiting. Obviously, we're not doing anything about this, we're going to get a split Norway, a split Europe, even in the years to come. Of course, the solution lies in successful integration. In this way, it is not possible to think of integration as it has done throughout Europe, including in Norway, in recent years, where integration is thought to be complete when one can speak, and education, work and lawfulness — that it is these four parameters to measure integration by. But that's not the goal of integration; it's just the entrance ticket. We don't – and we don't dare to – talk about community values, which the nation is really built around. How well integrated a is is not necessarily measured according to the four parameters. One can have all four things, but one can still be against equality, for example. There is a reason that there are many immigrant women who are not at work, that there are precisely Pakistani women who are among the women with the lowest participation. One can still be well integrated on the basis of the four parameters and feel that your daughters do not deserve to go on leisure activities or do not go on recreational activities, because then they will be too well ‘integrated’. One can speak Norwegian and be well educated, be at work, and one can be law-abiding, but still be against, for example. freedom of expression or in order to prohibit blasphemous expressions, one can be against democracy, one can, for example. have a different view of how sexual minorities and their rights should be, and one may be against religious freedom. All of this is within the four parameters that we measure integration after. The whole way of measuring integration, as we do in Europe and Norway, is really out of date, and we really have to get rid of that. We have to start looking at integration in a completely different way. Some reason why I took the floor was that, if I interpreted him correctly, the Minister of Knowledge should have thought or said that the content of the proposal I have tabled, No. 12, the government will look at and include in their whole work when they look at the question of burka and nikab in school. If that is true – and I see it nodious – I am making the proposal for a transmission proposal. I maintain that there is no point in making any national ban on non-existent problems. There's practically no one walking around with burka and nikab in Norwegian schools. This is just symbol politics, and I think the Storting is better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1766	There are many strange statements that have come from the opposition in this debate. One of these statements is that the Right Party government is now going to add up to a large-scale sale of our country. I understand that spin doctors and communication people at Youngstorget have come to the conclusion that it's wise to say, because it sounds totally unacceptable, and that's what it is. But what you say from the pulpit of the Storting should have a certain relevance, and not least it should have a degree of truth in it. The hydropower shall not be sold out of the country. That's not going to be right by saying it multiple times. The government has not proposed that the hydropower should be sold, nor has it proposed the majority parties on the Stortinget. The question back to the red-green politicians, and in particular those from the Workers' Party, is then, when one has got it a little at a distance: how will one characterize the government that has later sold most of the country, namely the Stoltenberg I government? During Jens Stoltenberg's year and a half as Prime Minister in 2000–2001, Statoil and Telenor were listed. The state's shareholding in the credit fund was sold, and thus Norway's second largest bank came on Swedish hands. Norwegian Medisinaldepot was sold to a German mediser. Two thirds of the shares in the liquor producer Arcus were sold to private individuals, and 49 pst. of the shares in the mining company Olivin went to an American company. In addition, shares were sold for SEK 4.3 billion. kr in DnB. To follow the rhetoric of the workers' party representatives today, that government stood for the sale of Norway. I think that has led to an added value both for companies and for society. The workers' party representatives cannot believe that with the rhetoric they have led today. It is not necessary to go all the way back to 2000–2001 to find such examples, either. Trond Giske sold as Minister of Industry in the red-green government feed company EWOS in the summer of 2013. The company was resold a few years later with 50 pst. profits. Former Minister of Agriculture and Food Slagsvold Vedum smiled as wide as he can, when in 2012 he proclaimed in the NRK that a total of 500,000 covers forest and property would be sold throughout the country by 2017. This is done to ensure local ownership of the forest, local landowners, or that others are given the opportunity to buy forest. Not since the Danish king sold away forest to finance his warfare, there had been sales of as many government properties as the Battle of Vedum decided for that sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1781	During the debate I have heard that in particular the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are repeating and repeating the clichés that today's government is taking away from the poor and giving to the rich. They say that the differences are increasing, there are going to be more poor, and it seems like everything is bad with today's government. It's a massive crisis maximisation. I've almost got the feeling that I've been sitting and listening to a debate from some randomly poor country, an un-country, where there are really huge differences between people, where the rich are enormously rich and where the poor are very, very poor. In fact, Norway is actually one of the countries in the world where there are the least differences and where there is the most equality. It may seem that the Workers' Party simply ignores this, or sometimes I wonder if the Workers' Party itself believes in its rhetoric. The working party criticized us for changing the child supplement, that's an example. I think it's a little special that we get criticism of that, as far as I understand, let the Workers' Party itself base too much of the changes that have been carried out in the frailty reform. The right-hand Party Government strengthens the working line. That's exactly why it was important to change the child supplement. It should be profitable to work, and it should not be profitable not to work – to sit at home. Tone Sønsterud also criticized the government for failing to settle enough for transportation in Hedmark. Then she showed especially to rv. 3, rv. 25 and E16. In the case of transport, the government delivers in all areas. We deliver on the way, and we deliver on the track. We have increased the appropriations by approx. 50 pst. Only the Inland is now to be invested approximately. 25 B.C.E. kr on the road and track, which will lead to approx. 3,000 employees will get a job. It's a massive bet on transportation. In the case of rv. 3 and Rv. 25 we're already visible. We've hopped the trees along the line, we've cleaned up a part of it that the red-greens laid down. Among other things, we have increased from 100 km/h to 110 km/h, we have removed some roundabouts and at least we get a level-free crossing. It is important for accessibility, it is important for the flow of traffic, and it is also extremely important for road safety. If we had come into the project earlier and got cleaned up more, we would have addressed several issues. An example I would like to mention is: on the small distance between Løten and Elverum, there are actually four road normals: it's going to be the normal four-field road, it's going to be two three-fields, it's going to be narrow four-field and it's going to be a normal four-field road. I have a big, good news for Tone Sønsterud and everyone else in the hall: in terms of further progress for Rv. 3 and Rv. 25, the proposition will be dealt with here in Stortinget before Christmas, and then it's all about being able to get started – hopefully over the course of a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1796	This has been a bit strange, but also relatively predictable debate to follow these two days. Some have talked about their policies, what they want to improve and renew in Norway, some have criticised without coming up with their own solutions. And I'm afraid it would have been unparliamentary of me to claim that the Workers' Party only talks against better knowledge, so I shouldn't go further into it. A lot of the debate has been about Difference Norway. Yes, it's a common goal we all have that the differences in Norway should not be too large. But the biggest difference you have in Norway is about those who are at work, versus those who are not at work. Then I am pleased that we have a government that is clear that we are going to facilitate that more people will live on their own income, and there is more to this government has done. Now that the government has made a significant reduction in health cows, it means that far more people can return to work more quickly. Now that we have made changes to the Working Environment Act, we have made sure that the door to work is wider and wider, and that more people who were previously out of work can now have the opportunity to try out in the workplace and show what skills and opportunities they have. Then it is especially when we hear that the Labour Party leader from this pulpit says that almost the most important thing for the Workers' Party, if they recover the government power, is to reverse the modernisation we have done by the Working Environment Act, and that they want to reintroduce a working environment law adapted to the needs of Norway in the 1970s. The world has changed, and then it is also important that we contribute to making the adjustments that are needed. There has also been a debate on taxes and taxes. I am pleased that we have a government that reduces taxes and charges for business and for individuals, so that more people can live on their own income, so that we allow Norwegian companies to keep more of their own money, so that they can invest and help secure jobs. But then I record that some people are more concerned that it is more important to increase taxes and taxes. Exactly how much they don't want to go out with, but you're talking about 26 billion. kr, as I see it is the last number it's talked about. And I want to say that it's very special to think that it will help Norwegian companies that are in a tight economic situation, to give them a significant extra bill. That won't help. For jobs are not adopted; they are created. And our job as politicians is actually to facilitate business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1807	This has been a reasonably predictable debate, and I think we should be happy that Oslo Børs is not affected by the contributions of workers' party representatives to this room, because then it would really go down with the stock exchange. So fortunately, it is not from Stortinget’s pulpit – at least not from the representatives of the Workers’ Party – that it is decided what it will look like on the stock market. I also think it's a little special that there is so little positive from this pulpit from the red-green representatives, and I think it's especially to hear all the criticism of the government from the head of the Committee on Church, Education and Research, which is a very important area. Well, that's getting knowledge, getting education, which is one of the things to make sure that we can really meet the future with new and forward-looking jobs. Then it is sad to hear that the chairman of the committee barely mentioned this in his speech from the pulpit and was only concerned with criticising the government for doing something about the wealth tax, especially when we know that the chairman of this committee as the Council of State was concerned about perhaps having to look at the wealth tax, because it went a little wrong. But obviously it was more important in this ideology and polemics debate to be against what he really was a little bit for when he was the Council of State. I think it would have been very good if the head of the education committee had also been very clear that working, training people, getting the skills, research environments, is important, those who can make sure that I, as an elderly political spokesman – and all the elderly in this country – can get new technology, the welfare technology, in place that enables us to train people to provide good care. This competence is something that a leader of the education committee should be concerned about getting in place, so that we can really provide those who need security, care and care in their everyday lives, a good, safe and dignified old age, not least with good welfare technology, which can ensure that people are cared for and that technology should help those who need it!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1816	I'll take the volume down! I think it's interesting that the Progress Party here has four of its representatives thundering in at the end. We have not heard the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party sum up the debate, which we often tend to do. But that's in itself okay – it's come to its end. I think most things have been said. Otherwise, I agree with Bård Hoksrud – I think it's okay that he stays away from Børsen for a while. Otherwise, it is interesting that he is very concerned about what Børsen had to understand from Stortinget. I think it is right that the Stock Exchange also listens to the Stortinget, because it is actually the policy that should set the direction for the country. What's good about this debate is that the themes crystallize for the last year. And that's the last thing I want to say here: we've got a very clear focus on work, different views on how we fight unemployment, slightly different views on how we create new jobs. It is inconceivable that we can do it now that participation in the labour market is also on its way down. Differences and inequalities: I want to tell the Prime Minister that it is wrong that we stand and guess on no basis. In fact, there has been an entire interpellation debate in the Stortinget raised by the Workers' Party on the theme of differences between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance's background material and debates on it, so that it is very well supported by the facts, and it is of course a whole range of themes when we discuss differences and differences. I think inequality is going to be a topic also in the year that comes, the different parts that contribute to it, and instruments, and of course how we're going to bet on using all of Norway and our industries. Moreover, I note what the Minister of Knowledge has said during the afternoon about the department's investigations to ensure that the whole face appears in the school. I think that's a positive starting point. Then I feel like we've caught up with that debate in Norway and cut away from what's happening to practices we don't have in Norway, that's to ban how people dress, but make sure that there's good school education going on. Thank you for the debate – and I look forward to an exciting year!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1832	Had the representative Gahr Støre looked at the list of speakers, he would see that I was after him too when he was on his way up! I think it has been an interesting debate, but there has been a two-track debate: the government parties – and the Christian People's Party and the Left – have chosen to try to bring forward some of the good things that have also happened, while the rest of the opposition has done everything they can to say that almost nothing is going in the right direction. The truth is, of course, that there are challenges here. Very much goes well, but then you also have some challenges in the future that the government is working every day to find a solution. We have always, for many years, had challenges in the field of crime. The Minister of Justice delivers every day to get the percentage of information and bring down the crime. In the field of defence, we have been presented with a long-term defence plan that shows the direction in which we want to go, to ensure that we meet the challenges that lie there in the coming years. We have also tried in a number of other areas to show through this debate what is happening out there. And then we've pointed out that while it's going well in a lot of states, we have challenges especially along the coast, especially from the Agder counties up to and including the Trondelag counties. At the same time, however, we also receive figures from other sectors. As late as yesterday we got the numbers from the fishing industry, which is constantly setting new records within its fish exports. This means that the instrument to be put into action must be adapted to the reality we are in, precisely to get the tailor-made solutions to solve the problems that are actually there. It can't be that we're going to make a policy to solve problems that don't exist. That's why it's important that we do these things properly. I'm just going to end this part by giving a little explanation of vote, so that everything is cleared out of the way. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled a motion for a resolution. 1st@item: We very much appreciate the fact that the Minister of Knowledge pointed out that a work related to legislation on lucky clothes would be started in school. But we think it's important to get a law ban, because it has other effects related to how it can change in the future. A law must be passed on to the Stortinge in order to change, legislation can be amended by it at any time. I trust this government, but I'm not sure if future is necessarily as competent and concerned with this issue as today's government is. So we are voting in favour of that proposal, and we are voting against the rest of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1845	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1856	It became somewhat unclear after the intervention by the representative Nesvik, but with those assumptions I unfortunately have to maintain my proposal, No. 12 and cannot turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1861	If the hall has nothing against it, the president will assume that it is maintained. No one's ever opposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1891	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting that all unused funds of the total SEK 7.3 billion set aside for refugee expenses in Norway in 2016 be transferred to foreign aid for use in 2016 and 2017, in addition to the ordinary external assistance budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1906	I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1911	Can we do that again?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1916	Yeah, it's early in the season. We have to start rehearsing. So this is proposal No. Four, from the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1928	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size refers to the Paris Agreement’s ambition to avoid global warming above 1.5 degrees due to anthropogenic climate change and the goal for Norway to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, and ask the government to withdraw the oil and gas extraction permits granted on a Norwegian base in the 23rd concession round and cancel the 24th concession round, since the globe cannot even tolerate the burning up of oil and gas from the fields currently in operation. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the state budget for 2017 is committed and sectorically reducing climate emissions in Norway significantly and in line with the target of reducing it by 40 pst. by 2030, i.e. 1,6 million tonnes of CO2 in 2017.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1953	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the planned wolf shooting proposed by the predators and to maintain the wolf population in Norway at the current level.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1970	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the vessel requests the government to freeze access to the quota and the rights of the coastal fishing fleet, pending the size of the vessel to deal with the alerted review of the current quota system.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e1987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requested by the Government at the latest in the revised budget 2017, sets out a plan for the means to be used to achieve the Storting target of zero-emission cars for all new cars sold in 2025.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to suspend all exports of arms, ammunition and other military materials to all States participating in the Saudi-Arabic-led coalition intervening in the Yemen conflict.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2011	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to examine the living conditions of the families and children affected by the cuts in disability, including cuts in child allowances and cuts as a result of the way in which the government carried out the conversion of disability in the event of the disability reform, and to return to the Stortinget with this knowledge as soon as possible so that the Storting can assess whether special relief measures are necessary.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2028	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the imprisonment/incarceration of children.’ The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2045	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a briefing on the practice of incarceration/incarceration of children and proposals to reduce their use.’ The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2063	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to identify the use of face-to-face clothing in public educational institutions and to assess the need for national guidelines on its use.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2080	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to postpone consultation so that municipalities can ensure sound political processes in the design of their input into the local police station structure.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to carry out a review of the work of police districts’ governing groups in order to ensure that these are in line with the leadership provided by the Stortinget for the local processes of police reform.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2104	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to work towards the further extension of national border control by the European Commission within the current Schengen acquis.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2121	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget on the extent to which municipal, state and state expenditure has been incurred in the context of the municipal reform.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2138	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to provide adequate information on how it has followed up the soil protection strategy adopted this year to ensure that re-disposal of food soils has increased in the last two years.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2156	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals prohibiting the use of burka, niqab and other clothing that impede identification and interaction in all school and educational institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2171	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 161st Great by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-05.ana.ud325e2187	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That doesn't seem like it, and the meeting's been cancelled.
