ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e26	The former deputy representative of Oslo, Une Aina Bastholm, has again taken up his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e41	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Jan Tore Sanner and Ketil Solvik-Olsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main question, which is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e48	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Yesterday, the Board of Directors of Rygge Civil Airport decided that the aerodrome is likely to be closed from 1 November. The aerodrome management refers to the passenger charge that the Progress Party will now introduce. So at Siv Jensen's guard, 1 000 jobs can be lost on Rygge. The NHO refers to 5 000–6 000 jobs that may be lost on a national basis, and it is pointless in a situation where Norway has a record high unemployment rate. The working party is to use the charging system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but this air passenger fee that the Progress Party will now introduce is not a green fee. The climate impact of this passenger charge is as doubtful as the history of this passenger charge. It was not produced after thorough investigations into the impact on the environment and workplaces. It was provided without an investigation, which was also confirmed by the Party-State Secretary on the radio this morning early. Now we see the price of this bad craft. It's high. It may have to be paid by 1000 employees at Rygge Airport. Siv Jensen looks skeptical, but if she doesn't believe my words, I can remind her of her own. In response to the Stortinget, she wrote that the airline passenger fee is a fiscal fee. That's an honest answer. The tax is a fiscal charge that neither saves the climate nor saves jobs, nor is it investigated. But there's another way. In the Worker Party's 2016 alternative budget, we proposed a package of environmental taxes that, in sum, will provide the same revenue as the air passenger fee, in addition to its impact on the environment. An increase of only 25 cents in the user charge on diesel will lead us halfway to the goal of saving the jobs at Rygge. And it's not too late yet. The size of the budget has not been revised. The 1000 jobs can still be saved if the Progress Party is willing to swallow pride and turn into a matter that has come out completely wrong. So my question is: will the party leader, the finance minister, listen to the employees in Eastfold, see that this is a craft she can do about, and help save the jobs at Back?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e63	Let me first say that I have a great understanding that the employees at Back now feel uncertain about the news that came yesterday evening. The government received the news in the same way as everyone else, late last night, and I want to stress that we now want to get an overview. It is quite natural that we now go closer and look at the situation on Rygge and not least talk to the employees, who now feel uncertainty as a result of this. That being said, no Norwegian airports are being set down as a result of such a charge. In this case, it is a matter of Ryanair not wanting to avail itself of Rygge Airport. They say it's because of the charge, but it doesn't seem to prevent them from flying from other airports in Norway. I notice that Jonas Gahr Støre says there is another way. Yes, one of the proposals in the Workers' Party's alternative budget was to remove the entire tax-free scheme, which would result in a much higher fee increase for the airlines, and which would not have been a contribution to this discussion. This fee was agreed by Stortinget before Christmas. It has been consulted, and there is a charge in line with passenger charges imposed in a number of other European countries, including Germany and the United Kingdom, and therefore not known to the airlines. What surprises me is that the Labour Party today is showing such touching concern for Ryanair. It's a company the previous government, of which Jonas Gahr Støre was a part, the boycott. So they wanted to boycott this company a few years ago, but now they are against the fact that Ryanair has to pay a modest fee. I find it a little difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e76	This is not about an airline at all. It's about the government's political craft. That's the big deal to follow up on. Now the government wants to get an overview of the situation on Rygge, says the Minister of Finance, after yesterday's news. Now they want to contact the employees. It is after several months, and the State Secretary of the Advancement Party said on the news today early that this was not done. The business community deserves predictability. We have adopted a tax settlement to provide predictability. We want them to know what to do with them, and here everyone knows that a fiscal fee was adopted in the last hour because the Progress Party opposes other charges. We have seen bad political craftsmanship here, and I find it directly alarming that the Minister of Finance says that in the light of yesterday's news they will now contact the airport. Alternatives other than this are available, which in addition have an effect on the climate. It is very deficiently investigated that this is a climate action, and I will ask again: In the negotiations currently under way, will the Progress Party in Stortinge consider other alternatives to cover this, as they had successfully moved when it came to the plastic bag charge last year, and found another solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e87	This fee has been well known for many months, all the time the Storting made the decision to introduce it before Christmas. It's been out at the hearing. It is based on the same model that a wide range of other European countries have had for several years, including the United Kingdom and Germany. That's in itself part of the predictability of our system. The introduction of a fee is alerted, it is sent to the hearing, and then it is introduced. But we do so in a situation where, overall, we have reduced taxes and charges in Norway by over 18 billion. kr. It's a little special, I have to say, to wake up today to a Workers' Party that is now suddenly opposed to tax incentives – a party that has gone after this government for weeks and months and just criticized us for having reduced taxes and charges by over 18 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e92	It opens up for follow-up questions – first representative Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e95	This is not about Ryanair, and it is not about the tax-free scheme. The Minister of Finance must stop running from reality. Progress Party leader and Finance Minister Siv Jensen is responsible for the fact that a tax that could have been avoided leads to mass redundancies in Eastfold. Several hundred lose their work, their income, their security, in a state that has already lacked jobs. The Progress Party and the Right ensure that the largest mass redundancies of profitable jobs in many decades now come in Eastfold. The party of progress and the right can turn. They can drop the fee. They have the power, they have the opportunity. What is the Finance Minister's advice to the hundreds who now lose their income and security because of the government's tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e102	Neither the government nor I run from reality or from the responsibility we have. We have followed up the budgetary decisions taken by Stortinget before Christmas. We have made time investments in infrastructure. We have implemented significant tax reductions. And yes, we have agreed to introduce a passenger fee. I disagree with the statement made by the representative. This is about Ryanair. This is a charge imposed on all flights in Norway. It is not a fee specifically targeted at Rygge. But I'm worried about the uncertainty that the employees at Rygge now experience after the news that came yesterday. That's exactly why it's important for me and the rest of the government to go into the situation of Back to find answers to the challenges they've now faced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e109	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e112	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Transport. We all have a great deal of understanding of the frustration that people in Eastfold are now experiencing in view of Rygge. Aviation is important and will become increasingly important in the future. We're getting more and more traveling, and the population is increasing. Then we have to have an offer that meets the needs. The Christian People's Party has initiated an overall review, an external investigation, of the need for airport capacity in the East in a future perspective. How does the Council of State see that this can be done? And: Does he agree with the need for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e122	It is important that we have a transport service that benefits as much as possible. Aviation is an important part of it, and with its policy, the government has arranged for us to invest more in airports. We've changed the dividend policy in Avinor just to finance it. I see that there are very many airlines looking at Norway, who want to use Norway as a destination and as a place to intervene, and we see that most airlines are increasing their offer both in Norway and out of Norway. The exemption is therefore Ryanair, which is why this is a discussion about Ryanair. – We’re going to follow – and we’ve followed – in development already, but as the Minister of Finance says, we’re going to do an extra, new update on this. We see that the Gardermo meets its needs in general. It's very rare that Gardermoen needs to take flights to other airports, but we know that both Torp and Rygge provide a supplement to the people of the East who live a while away from Gardermoen. It's natural in this situation we're looking at how it is, but we don't think there'll get very many surprising news out of such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e131	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e134	Now there will be 1,000 new jobs in the Eastfold job queue. There are up to 1,000 families now where either mother or father loses their job – and thanks to the Party's charging policy. It is the Progress Party which, by its majority, has ensured that we have received this fare, which was not at all determined, and which came a late night hour last fall. And then the Minister of Finance talks about predictability. It's the total opposite of predictability; it's irresponsible, what's happening now. Why is it so important for the Leader of the Advance Party to be able to get through an airline seat when 1000 people lose their jobs? Or can the Progress Party leader now say: we regret, it was unwise, we should see you in the back of your eyes, and of course we should turn around, because the Progress Party is more important that people have jobs than that we get more fees to people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e139	The President expects this question to be addressed to the Council of State, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e142	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e147	I fully agree with Mr Vedum's representative that it is more important that most people have jobs and that we should therefore keep the level of taxes at a low level. That is precisely why this government since its accession has reduced the total amount of taxes and charges in Norway by over 18 billion. kr. In contrast, the Central Party's alternative state budget stands, where only in 2016 the Central Party would increase the total taxes and charges in Norway by more than 15 billion. kr. There is no contribution at a time when we need predictability in the tax system and need to increase our competitiveness towards the rest of the world. This is precisely why it has been important for this government to help us get a competitive tax system, which means that more companies will establish themselves in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e152	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e155	In a European perspective, Ryanair is one of the worst companies in both the treatment of employees and the treatment of customers. In the previous government, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg went ahead to boycott the company because they were concerned about how to treat employees. The local rapporteurs also wanted the municipalities to boycott Ryanair. The only people in the last government who didn't go for boycott were the Senter Party – a party that, in return, introduced an air fare the last time they had the finance minister. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, it's 5 billion. in new charges which have not been determined before they have been proposed. Trond Giske said on the radio today that the Workers' Party was not for such a type of fee. He therefore allows Ryanair to dictate Norwegian charging policy. There are scandalous environmental policies, but there are also scandalous employers' policies. My question to the Council of State is: Does she agree with the Labour Party that a company such as Ryanair will be allowed to dictate Norwegian charging policy and Norwegian environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e164	It is quite right, as the representative Skei Grande recalls, that the previous red-green government with Prime Minister Stoltenberg in the head of the airport boycott Ryanair. The same thing happened to large parts of the trade movement and not least to many of the municipalities in Østfold. It is also true that when the Senterpartie had Gudmund Restad as Minister of Finance, the flight fee at that time was introduced in Norway. Then it was obviously okay for the Center Party. Now there's clearly a slightly different view of this. What I am concerned about is how the overall level of taxation in Norway affects business. This passenger charge, which is relatively modest, will be introduced with effect from 1 June, but the four cooperation parties have reduced taxes and charges in Norway by over 18 billion. kr. This will be a good contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and therefore we will continue to work to improve the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e171	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e174	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. Greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are increasing. New figures show emissions increased by 1.5 pst. in 2015. The total emissions were 33.9 million. tonnes in 2015 – an increase of 0.8 million. tonnes from the previous year. We cannot, at least not alone, blame for decisions taken under the red-green government. An important reason for this increase is, of course, the use of natural gas offshore. The emissions from oil and gas extraction rose by 2.3 pst alone. last year. But emissions have also increased in road traffic. The transport sector must take its share of the responsibility for creating cleaner air where people live and live in everyday life. They must be able to breathe in the cities without going away. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, as a result of the good cooperation we have on the non-socialist side, has had an impact on measures that can reduce emissions, while improving the supply of transport. On a proposal from the Christian People's Party, Stortinget has adopted measures to increase the traffic of goods from road to sea, and road transport is to be electrified with several electric car charging stations. Urban cycling becomes easier, and more environmentally friendly aviation through biofuels – to mention something. The Christian People's Party has also been a proponent of the collective and rail efforts. But the challenges are great, and my question is therefore: what in the transport sector will be the main commitments the Council of State can give here and now on behalf of the government, and can the Council of State guarantee that the Progress Party in the Government will use the instruments needed to meet the Storting's target of emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e186	The government is concerned that we should both improve the mobility of people in everyday life and that we should make it cleaner. This means both reducing CO2 emissions from road transport and other transport and making air cleaner in cities. For me, it's important to stress, because CO2 emissions have nothing to do with making people get less air to breathe into cities. The instruments used in the past, namely replacing petrol cars with diesel cars, have correctly reduced CO2 emissions in isolation, but this makes urban air considerably worse. We don't solve global environmental problems by making people in cities sick. That's why I'm very pleased that the policy now pursued by the four bourgeois parties makes us see a reduction in diesel car sales, which grew under the previous government, and that we get a strong growth in electric car sales, not least in hybrid car sales, because it means better urban air and lower emissions. Then we do a lot of grips, as the representative has already mentioned. I have not now concluded on the overall strategy, but I remember that when we are going to deal with the National Transport Plan in Stortinget about approx. one year, it will have a climate strategy. For the first time in history, we have said that as part of the NTP, it should be a climate strategy. We have got a draft strategy, and it shows that our transport networks believe that we can halve emissions during this period. It's very offensive when we see things increase. But there is an increase in the use of electric cars and the increased use of sustainable biofuels. Let me stress that the use of biofuels where global emissions are increased only to reduce national emissions makes no sense. But I'm very proud that several of the public agencies, like the Posten, have an offensive strategy to replace polluting cars with low-emission cars and zero-emission cars. In addition, we have increased the rail budgets by 50 pst. after the government change. The bus and public appropriations have been increased by 40 pst. In addition to what was proposed by the National Transport Plan, we had a growth in walking and cycling paths only in 2016 of 60 pst. So there's a lot of things we're doing now that will give...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e206	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e209	I thank you for your answer, and look forward to the climate strategy when the NTP is presented. More freight transport in the sea saves our roads too much wear. It gives better visibility and less emissions. On a proposal from the Christian People's Party, to which the Stortinget has joined, we will put in place measures for more efficient ports and port terminals, the charging and charging policy to be reviewed and stimulated for increased use of low-carbon technologies. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left also support us in that at least 30 pst. of road transport operations, over 300 km, shall be carried over by sea or rail by 2030. That means 30,000 fewer trailers on the roads by 2030. Is the Council of State as enthusiastic as we are in the Christian People's Party for this policy, and will he give all his strength to achieve the objectives in cooperation with the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e216	I can confirm that. Route 1, which we often call the maritime route, has a great potential for more traffic. This is about facilitating the efficiency of port activity with lower costs. It's about making it possible for the ships to be replaced faster, so that we can cut emissions, and give some support to low-emission ships. We have done so on the part of the government, among others. by introducing a wreckage arrangement for old ships. It's about giving environmentally friendly ships lower charges on calls, and it's about through Enova and other actors we support both technology development and use of that technology. In addition, there are now a number of improvements on the rail system which make rail and freight transport seem to be likely to increase in the years ahead after many years of decline due to poor maintenance and thus low credibility of freight transport. I believe that we need to strengthen this further. I am very pleased that both the Christian People's Party and the Left show that we are going in the same direction, and that the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting in the Grand Duchy are supporting that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e223	It opens for follow-up questions – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e226	A large part of the contract contracts for ferry services in Norway, both state and county, shall be renewed in the next few years. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the renewal of holiday offers. They are used to renew the ferry fleet and secure new and environmentally friendly ferries. It improves ferry services and makes a significant contribution to lower emissions from the transport sector. In addition, the requirement for new and environmentally friendly ferries will mean new tasks for the yard industry. At a time of downsizing and failure, it is an important measure. Will the Council of State use this unique opportunity we now have to ensure the renewal of the ferry fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e237	I fully agree that we have to do that, and I also believe that we have shown that we are already doing it. In renewing some of the national road transport projects, we have stressed the need to implement zero-emission or low-emission technologies. It's a little bit dependent on the length of the ferry journey. At Anda-Lote in Sogn and Fjordane, we have said that we should both improve frequency and offer while cutting emissions. We're doing that by saying there's going to be at least one elephant. And then there's going to be another ferry, either an electric ferry or one that has some kind of biofuels. We have through Enova made sure that e.g. Hordaland County now has nearly 300 million. kr that they can use when renewing their holiday offers – here we are talking about almost 20 ferries – to get low emissions and zero emissions. We have spent almost 60 million in the revised national budget. kr – I think it is – to further support other county municipalities and actors that are going to renew their bids, precisely to enable them to have competence in technology and tendering processes to make use of more environmentally friendly ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e246	Magne Rommetveit – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e249	Speeches and experiences show that when public transport is being expanded and modernised, more people choose to travel collectively. There are good results as a result of the climate agreement and the current national transport plan. In urban areas, there is now a strong need for additional investment and operational resources. Transport modes in their basic document to NTP announce this as one of the main challenges we are now facing. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how will he enable cities to cope with the increasing investment and operational needs of public transport, and will he facilitate a greater share of tolls in various urban packages around the country to address the challenges of public transport? Or does the Council of State have other plans to help the state with public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e258	This is not something we're going to start with right now, this is something we've been working on in the next 31 months. We've improved the rail supply in the big cities. From Oslo S several hundred more train departs daily compared to when we took over. Bergen says that the last eight years under the previous government got about. 10-15 pst. in aid in which they built up public infrastructure. With today's government they get 50 pst. aid. So it's almost a quadruple compared to what they were used to. In the reward scheme, which thus supports the cities that are able to increase public transport and reduce the growth of car traffic, we see that Oslo received a total of 180 million in the last two years under the red-green government. kr for this purpose. The first two years under today's government, they got 715 million. NOK, and only in 2016 they received SEK 450 million. kr. So in one year they got two and a half times what they got in two years under the last government. So here's a lot of financial support to help with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e267	It's time! Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e273	My question goes to the finance minister and party leader Siv Jensen. Charges may be used to reduce emissions from the transport sector. The airline seat fee, for which the Progress Party secured a majority in Stortinget, has been sold externally as such an environmental tax. My question is simply: does the Minister of Finance agree that the fare for over 1 billion aircraft seats. kr is an environmental tax and how much will this charge reduce the total emissions of CO2 from aviation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e283	As the government has briefed Stortinget on a number of occasions, the passenger fee is a fiscal charge that also has an environmental side to it. It is quite right, as the representative Pollestad says, that taxes can be used to reduce emissions from the transport sector, but other instruments can also be used. I would like to remind you that one of the instruments used by the four cooperation parties related to the transport sector has just been to change the one-off charge in a more environmentally friendly way. We have done this by making it easier to buy more environmentally friendly cars. And the results are not missing. We already see that the interest in plug-in hybrids, hybrid cars and electric cars is high in Norway, among others. as a result we have good and positive tax advantages associated with the type of cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e290	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e293	It is important to reduce emissions from the transport sector, and it is important to follow up on the objective of a 50 pst national transport plan. reduction up to 2030. It applies to road transport, to maritime transport, and to air transport. Then my question – also to the Minister of Finance: Does the Minister of Finance see that in air transport, in order to reduce emissions, it is right to use a set of instruments, preferably as part of a green tax shift, and to see different charges – there may be a passenger charge or a reduction in landing fees – in the context of reducing emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e300	That's exactly what the four cooperation parties have done. We have also looked at how we can use landing charges positively, attach it to fuel, environmentally friendly fuel as such, which will also be a very positive contribution in the long term to promoting more environmentally friendly fuels in the aviation sector. What I think is important is that we manage to do when we have ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, is to get citizens and businesses involved. Then we have to look for a set of instruments, including the positive ones. I have no faith that we're just going to use whips in these questions. I guess it's so important to use carrots. Then it is about positive stimulus, including through the fees, and I believe that the four cooperation parties have done a lot of that far, not least related to the conversion of the one-off charge on the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e307	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e310	The question goes to the Minister for Transport, The size has decided that we should set climate targets and emission targets for the national transport plan, not non-binding climate strategies, as the Council of State has requested. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government have to endure being measured on the results of their policies, and the policy results are that emissions are rising, and that the electric car share in the first few months of this year is falling. When emissions rise, when we know that they have to go down every year to stop dangerous climate change, when we know that the commitments we are going to get from the EU are going to be somewhere between 35 and 40 pst. in the non-quota sector and transport, most of them must be taken, and when the trade unions of Ketil Solvik-Olsen have said that it is possible to cut 50 pst. Until 2030, my question is: will the Council follow up the ambitions of the trade unions to have a 50 pst target for cuts in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e319	We will present the national transport plan in less than one year. The majority will have to discuss it and make the decisions that the Stortinget wants. But I think everyone who has joined in the debate and goes into it with great interest will see that in the context of the Paris Agreement, there is a consensus that we will work with objectives and coordinate them with our neighbouring countries, just to ensure that they become good and effective. So it's a little bit strange to shut up from a party that had itself as its main instrument in the eight years they ran, filling cities with diesel cars. We see that with today's government emissions go down by car. There have never been such low emissions from newly-sold cars as it is now, while at the same time reducing emissions in cities as a result. There is an increase in the number of kilometres travelled on the roads, but the increase is greater in transport than they are in emissions. That also means that we are now in a situation where the emissions per kilometer are going down. I'm very proud of that. In addition, when we look at what is being done in public transport, bicycles and times, we are making it possible to get the trend change that many people have talked about, but are still waiting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e328	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e331	Behind us we see the Parliamentary Assembly from 1814. There's the Founder's father, the Falsen, who stands and reads out the Constitution, and then Christie, who turns around and looks down on the President first, looked down on the Prime Minister's chair and up on the castle. In each place for all of us representatives is the Constitution. It is a line from the mariners to today's big business and those who rule today, and the Basic Law is firm. The most serious thing we can do is to give sovereignty. Under the Constitution, Norwegian government powers cannot give sovereignty to an international body of which we are not a member, such as the United Kingdom. EU. The Norwegian people have said no to the EU twice – there is a lot of wisdom in the Norwegian people. What the government is now proposing is to put Norwegian financial supervision under EU control, give power over the regulation and supervision of the Norwegian financial sector and Norwegian banks from Stortinget to Brussels. We're going to deal with the greatest waiver of sovereignty in recent times in the Norwegian metropolitan area before the summer, and it's going to be dealt with in an urgent way that we haven't seen our husband before. The case is dealt with more quickly than a standard Document 8. There are more thorough processes in Stortinget about where to cross the road than about the sovereignty repudiation we are now seeing – and it is after much pressure from the Progress Party and the Right in Government. They have said and they have thought that this must be pushed through quickly – it is urgent, it is very serious. My question is, why should we go under that EU legislation, and why is it so urgent? Why can't we have a proper debate? Does the Advancement Party fear the people in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e344	Let me first say that I fully agree with Mr Vedum's representative that we should have respect for the Norwegian Constitution. It weighs heavily, and it must weigh heavily in the political choices and decisions made by the magnification and government. Let me make it very clear that this issue, that is, about the financial supervision system, is not about EU membership, it is about getting good control and good supervision of financial institutions. If there's one thing we've learned after the financial crisis, it's how vital it is to secure people's savings and jobs. The financial crisis showed us with all manner of clarity how wrong it can be if banks take more risk than they can bear. Norway is part of the European internal market through the EEA Agreement, and we therefore need to have a link with the system of financial supervision that is now being established in the EU. It is wrong, however, when the representative, Mr Vedum, claims that we are now submitting to the EU. After all, the three EFTA countries have negotiated on a model from the red-green government. It was Sigbjørn Johnsen in the red-green government who started these negotiations – commendable. This government has followed it up, and it has been about finding a solution to this issue that guarantees Norwegian sovereignty and at the same time contributes to our financial industry gaining access to its sovereign most important market. Without that, we would have put jobs in jeopardy. We had made significant challenges for our own financial institutions. I think that would be a significantly bigger challenge. It is also the case that the solution now found means that most of the supervision of the financial market and financial undertakings in Norway remains within the Norwegian financial supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e356	Professor Eivind Smith expressed considerable uncertainty in the media yesterday about the way this matter is to be dealt with, in accordance with the Constitution. In the urgent hearing that we had in Stortinget, it was a member of the Financial Crisis Committee – a professor who was a member of the Financial Crisis Committee – who strongly warned against the procedure to which you now refer and the consequences it may have for the Norwegian financial sector. In the media yesterday we could read that billionaire and financial investor Øystein Stray Spetalen is a strong opponent, and I'll quote him: ‘I have no faith that Brussels will make decisions for our benefit in Norway. Just think about what the Norwegian economy would have looked like if we had got the euro.’ And on the other hand, "We shouldn't say that from our right of self-determination, we do that bit by bit. Each country has a different economic base and a different financial sector. I have no faith in transferring the right of access to anyone else." Why do the Progress Party and the leaders of the Progress Party believe in giving away our national right to self-determination?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e373	This is not about the right of self-determination. This is not about joining the euro. Nor is this about how Norway should regulate the Norwegian financial industry based on regulations arising in an international market. This is about how we are going to exercise effective supervision of financial institutions both at home and in the markets with which our institutions compete, that is, the whole European market. I repeat, one of the most critical things after the financial crisis was that very many banks and financial institutions were too poorly regulated and thus put the citizens' savings and thus jobs at risk. I believe that it is absolutely essential that we seek to avoid it. This is not an urgent matter either. I briefed the Storting about the work on this back in 2014 and agreed to conclude an agreement that ensures that we do not renounce sovereignty, but find a solution within the framework of the EEA Agreement, of which Norway has been part for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e382	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e385	I thought I heard the Council of State say that one does not renounce sovereignty, but this matter should be dealt with especially in the Storting, precisely because it is a great sovereignty decision. Øystein Stray Spätalen has our quoted, and I'll quote some sentences to: ‘I’ve learned one thing from businesses and businesses, and that’s the value of local governance. The more general it becomes, the more paperwork and wrong decisions it becomes." This is what the same Stray Speech said in yesterday's Class struggle about why it's a bad idea to leave national sovereignty over Norwegian banks and financial supervision to the bureaucrats in Brussels. Professor of Jus Halvard Haukeland Fredriksen warns during the hearing that the government's current management can provide a precedent for how to waive national sovereignty in a range of areas such as energy, telecommunications and data. Faced with this, ABC News’s fiscal spokesman says that it would probably also make sense to do the same in upcoming cases. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State: is this, more bureaucracy, one wanted? Is this a reasonable solution also in future issues of Norwegian sovereignty waiver – more bureaucracy, more remote control?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e399	This is not about more bureaucracy either. The Government of Liv Signe Navarsete itself was part of the government that took the initiative to find a solution for how the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority could mirror the new financial supervision that has now been established in the EU. The reason why this should be dealt with in accordance with the Basic Law is that we use the exact same provision as when the EEA Agreement was concluded for Norway in its time. It was when the ESA Agency was set up to safeguard the interests of the EFTA countries vis-à-vis the EU, and it is exactly the same mechanism that is now being used. But I want to underline what I said instead: most of the supervision of Norwegian financial institutions will take place in Norway and by the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e404	Irene Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e407	The Norwegian banks and financial institutions have been covered by the EEA Agreement and through it have had access to the European market in line with the European financial institutions, as explained by the Minister of Finance. The Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has also cooperated with the European Financial Supervisory Authority during the period considered. Following the financial crisis, the EU has established a new system of financial supervision, which is also to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Can the Minister of Finance say something about how cooperation with the national financial regulators in Europe has taken place in the past, what is new about the new system now being put in place, and why such negotiations have taken so long, starting in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e412	It is quite right that there has been cooperation between national financial supervisors across borders for many years. What is new is that the EU has set up three supervisory bodies that EFTA countries need to find a way of reflecting without giving up sovereignty, and that are safeguarding our framework within the EEA Agreement's obligations. That's exactly why this has taken time. It was important both for the previous government and for this government to find a solution that ensured that we could do so within the existing EEA Agreement and without having to give control over the supervision of our financial institutions. It took time. There were demanding negotiations both for the previous government and for this. I believe that the solution we have come up with ensures our interests, ensures good control of our financial institutions and ensures that our financial institutions have access to their sovereign most important market. It's a market we'd be closed out of if we hadn't found a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e417	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e420	SV believes it is quite clear that international mechanisms are needed to oversee the financial industry. That is why we think it is a pity that the government has negotiated away with the European Union in this matter. For Norway, there will be no influence on supervision at all. The decisions taken in EFTA will in practice be dictated by the EU. The government itself has informed that. Norwegian actors will not, as far as we can see, have access to complaints within the EU, and Norwegian authorities will not have a real opportunity to test the positions we disagree with. Therefore, it might have been tempting to ask how it is possible at all to submit such a weak proposal to the Stortinget. But my question is: what kind of precedent does this weak negotiating result with the EU create for future supervision of telecoms, energy and privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e425	I disagree with the claim that one has negotiated away. Rather, it has been absolutely essential to find a good solution to ensure that Norwegian financial institutions have access to the European market, from which they would be excluded if we were unable to find this mechanism. Similar proposals have been submitted by the Icelandic Government and Liechtenstein. The three EFTA countries agree that this is a good solution which also takes account of the constitutional aspects, which both Iceland and Norway have been very concerned about in the negotiations, which have been very demanding in this matter. I think I have to come back to the question of precedent. What this matter concerns is how to deal with the creation of the three new financial supervision systems in the EU and ensure good national control of our own financial institutions, while at the same time having the opportunity to cooperate on something as essential and important as joint regulation of the entire financial sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e435	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e438	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The four civil parties have done a great deal for the train effort in Norway in budgetary negotiations. We've got more departures, and we're taking advantage of the system we have today, as well as we can do. In many places in Europe, rail and trains are a good alternative to both car traffic and air traffic. There are many sections where the train is a real competitor and the preferred option. In Norway, we have had a small taste of this with the new offer that SJ has between Oslo and Stockholm. Travel time has now fallen by one and a half hours, and traffic has increased by 20 pst. It's obvious that on the SJ side, there's also a potential, with further improvements, that you can take up to 40 pst. by the transport, and it is a real alternative to aeroplanes. When examining the national transport plan in 2009, Stortinget argued that the future railway should be built with a dimensioning of 250 km/h, and at the NTP landfill in 2013, a speed of 250 km/h was repeated in several notes. Despite that it is today, as far as I know, only one place, approx. 2 km of railway down by Holmestrand, to be built with a dimensioning for 250 km / h. Then my question becomes: When will the Minister for Transport make sure that when we build a new railway in Norway, we do so with a dimensioning of 250 km/h?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e451	Let me first underline what the representative of Elvesuen also said: during today's majority, there has been a strong commitment on the railways. It was also under the previous government, but it has become very much reinforced now. In just 30 months, we've increased the budget by over 50 pst. Or 6 billion. kr more this year. We see a record growth in the number of passengers, simply because we have increased the number of departures, extended the number of routes and got more trains – we are now ordering new trains that are delivered monthly. This means that when we get increased frequency, increased capacity and improved data coverage along the lines gradually, it will be more attractive to travel by rail – so further growth will be based on it. Then the government has given priority to taking action where one gets the most benefit quickly, and that is to give people a better start on the trips they take every day, that is, even from work, and then you have a better alternative to sitting in a car queue. It's important when you're building up, you're helping you connect the cities, and then it's a goal that you can have a speed of 250 km/h. When things don't happen anywhere, it's often because the railway works say that if you put a rag that has to withstand 250 km/h, that means that you have almost no slack as to which rag you're going in for. It's just to look at Jären, where one now looks at the development of double tracks from Sandnes and downwards towards Egersund. There's a conflict everywhere if you don't allow a person to have a certain flexibility to escape agricultural land. The size has also decided to strengthen soil protection, and then one immediately gets a conflict between the speed of the railway and how much soil disappears in that context. We have tried to find good compromises in those contexts, where we also see that cross-politics on the Jären have accepted that one rather has a rail speed of 160 km/h in order to maintain the protection of the soil than to facilitate 250 km/h, simply because it is so close between stations that one does not get up to 250 km/h before one has to start braking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e460	In the past, in the two years that have passed, state councils have spent a lot of time complaining about the red-green government and the under-dimensions that they used in their road effort and in the road development that has been. I think the council once said that there is nothing that irritates him any more – that this is a lot of money out of the window. Isn't it important to have the same long-term thinking even when building a railway? Is it not important to build up intercity Oslo – Lillehammer, that in order to make sense, the first paragraph of Trondheim must be that it is essential that what is being developed has the long-termity and the dimensioning that make it the start of a future high-speed network between the major cities of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e467	I fully agree, and we've now almost quadrupled the planning budget just to be able to draw the long lines when we build both road and rail, instead of building short plots that don't give the big benefit. But I'll take the example again with the Railway. If we had said that we were going to make provision for 250 km/h, I am sure that all the parties in this room locally had protested violently on trasé elections, on soil protection policy, and probably the Minister of Agriculture would have been dragged into the control committee to respond to why the soil protection decisions have not been followed up. In this case, you can see that by having 160 km/h instead of, for example: 250 km/h at the trasé choice, it represents a time difference of 9 seconds. But if you get a Flirt train on that route instead of the trains you have today, a few travel time savings of 2 minutes can be made. Then a few reduced travel time can be significantly reduced with better car sets without having to take the conflict with all local politicians and probably the bulk of the population in terms of soil protection. If we're going to prioritize differently, I'd like to take a new signal from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e478	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e481	If we're going to be able to take the big passenger charters by train in the future, we have to bet on high-speed. In assessing socio-economic benefits, we see that the trade unions of the Minister of Transport occasionally prioritise Swedish stone over Norwegian people. The development of this region in particular, the creation of high-speed trains between the big cities of Oslo, Gothenburg and Copenhagen, or the 80-million-dollar cities that we are talking about, have fought for in the budgets. A working group was set up to look at how we can stimulate that route. My question to the Council of State is: How is it followed up? And do you have the pressure to develop fast trains, in a real metropolitan region, between three big cities, which had provided a great potential and also been an alternative to air traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e488	The government is following up on the work with e.g. development of the intercity bet around Oslo with record appropriations and with harmonised planning between the Road Administration and the Railway Agency, precisely because one has to have long-term solutions in place. We cooperate well, especially with the Swedish authorities, and that was something I took up less than two months after the government change, to see how one can get better route infrastructure between Oslo and Gothenburg and between Oslo and Stockholm. It is both about cooperation at the level of government to look at the infrastructure that is already in place, and, while we are working on each of our national transport plans, about ensuring that when Norway takes action on the Norwegian side, the Swedishs take the corresponding action on their side. At the same time, I would like to stress that I think the railway has a huge potential despite record growth already, but it's in and out of our cities that have the greatest potential. So I think a positive effect of that is that once you've got the routes in and out of our cities, we're also going to extend them so that they connect our neighboring countries' cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e497	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e500	When Stortinget dealt with the National Transport Plan in 2013, Stortinget decided to build double tracks on the intercity sections of Lillehammer, Halden and Skien. This was one of the major debates on the transport plan then. Now the transport modes in the basic document that have been handed over to the Minister for Transport in the work on NTP have proposed to postpone it. There it is only inside to build double tracks to Tønsberg, Sarpsborg and Åkersvika, south of Hamar. I understand that the Minister of Transport cannot now say what he is going to present in the national transport plan, but the ‘double-track development’ project is a special project because the Storting has adopted it, and it is within the current NTP. In addition, the Minister of Transport has defined a number of projects to be built in any case in relation to transport modes. Intercity is not such a project. My question is quite simply: will there be double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e505	As the representative Sverre Myrli himself points out, one of the next summer’s national transport plans will take the decisions, but today’s government and the majority of today’s governments have made sure that all plans are followed up, and preferably faster than planned by the previous government. A plans to carry out the work precisely on the objective today of reaching the end points within the timescales set. In this way, no changes have been made, but it is true that the trades unions, like the Railway Agency, have said that one can achieve the same travel time gain without investing in double tracks anywhere, precisely because one can then release money that can strengthen the railway in other areas. There will be a strategic discussion that the Storting must take: Is it the infrastructure itself that is the goal, or is it actually the travel offer it gives to the travellers? In any case, I note that by today's majority, we are between five and six billion. kr higher in appropriations overall than what was planned in the national transport plan that the representative Sverre Myrli boasts of, and so I think that we have really done a lot well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e511	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e514	There is no doubt that much has been invested in railway development during this period, and the plans are there for further development. One of the big bets for which there are great expectations is the expansion of intercity, both inside and outside, which several have already been involved today. The reason why this is important is that it develops new, good work regions. It offers opportunities for a completely different dynamic labour market, as well as a large-scale commitment to modern, forward-looking collective services. How important is it for the Council of State to achieve a coherent development of both internal and external intercity, in line with what is now envisaged in today's NTP, in order to achieve a large-scale contribution to public transport in this part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e519	Both the government and I are very busy building out a better railway, which gives people a good alternative to driving a private car on long distances, but which also ensures that a get reinforced collective offer in and out of the big cities, both in Oslo, which we are discussing here, and in Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger. I imagine that in our national transport plan, we are going to show how technology development offers new opportunities, and that one can connect electric buses – usually self-driving – that can feed these stations in a completely different way than before and thus reduce the distance problems that many people have with having to go a few miles to get to the railway. This has also been a problem in view of the lack of access parking. Here I think we're going to look at a lot more than just railway tracks in themselves. We need to look at all the developments that are taking place globally, and how Norway can be in the forefront of this. So I also remind you that this government has actually started work on the Ringeriksbanen, which has been adopted in Stortinget for many decades, while the final decisions have never been made... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e526	Time's up. Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e529	More than half of the railway effort that has come during this metropolitan period has come as a result of pressure from the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it is unusual for the Council of State to admit that the railway policy of the opposition parties is better than his own – he should have. But I have one question – to follow up what is now being said. Now it is the case that the Council of State uses environmental arguments to say that it is not possible to build 30-metre-wide corridors for trains running at 250 km/h, but we see from the policy that he does not use the same type of environmental arguments at all to prevent the construction of approximately. 100 m wide sidewalks for motorways. The last time we went through the plans, there were 27 of 28 issues, where the environment stood up against the plan, definitely negative for the environment. So my question is, is it really that the Council of State believes that the environmental impact of building 30-metre-wide railway corridors is larger than building 100-metre-wide motorway corridors for 110 km/h?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e538	Firstly, I am very pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have adopted a rail budget of over 18 billion. kr, while the best budget that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås managed to get adopted while he sat in government, was less than 12 billion. kr. So cooperation on the civil side gives a strong collective effort and a strong railway effort. So I think it's important to stress that my point here is that a railway train is equally wide regardless of how fast the train is going, but the dimensioning of the speed will mean something for which a swingradius must have on the railway. There's the problem that if one sets 250 km/h as the standard speed one should have, it means that one has very little flexibility considering where that railway is going. That means that a lot of people have to plow through cultivated land and also residential areas in order to get that speed. A road of 100 to 110 km/h dimensioning could have much greater flexibility on the swing gradient, just as I said a railway of around 160 km/h could be adapted to the cultural landscape and agricultural land on the Iron.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e545	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e548	In the context of the Oslopacket 3 negotiations, there is a discussion on how high toll rates it is reasonable to take off drivers. The Progress Party made the fight against toll-financed road development one of its top priorities before the elections last autumn. The promise was that tolls would end if the Advance Party came into government. And after Ketil Solvik-Olsen became Minister of Transport, he concluded that the commitment of the Progress Party to fight against tolls is firm. In addition, Mr Solvik-Olsen, Minister for Transport, said: ‘We don’t get tolls removed, but people will notice changes. In the future, drivers shall have to pay less in tolls, not more and more, as would be the case if FrP were not in government.» If the E18 West Corridor is fully developed, calculations by the NRK show that the toll price will be NOK 120. If you work 230 days a year, you have to spend 27,600 kroner. In today's bombing, the price is 6 624 kroner per year, including a chip discount. It is above the pain limit of the County rapporteur in Akershus, Anette Solli from the Right. She says: ‘It gets too expensive. It's hard for people to accept such a level." Further: ‘Long over the pain limit. Instead, we must go through the project list and decide on priorities." And... ‘ [[...]] Those who fight for the largest E18 solution are fighting for higher toll rates, not lower, as the Council of State claims all the time that he does. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Has the Council of State had any pain at all because how much toll is it okay to collect from the drivers to build the E18 West Corridor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e575	It is strange to be accused of equalizing tolls from a party that has voted against all of the government's proposals on toll cuts. I think everyone knows that the Progress Party's approach here is to reduce the toll burden, and if we had been managed alone, we would have financed our roads over the state budget and not over the toll system. The Progress Party has not been given a majority in favour of this. But what today’s government has decided is that the toll share should be lower in projects. We've done that in a number of places. E6 Helgeland North received a grant of 300 million. kr to reduce the toll level at two stations and remove a third one, in which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås disagreed. We have made proposals in Stortinget about our own toll reform, which unfortunately did not get a majority because of the opposition. In the 2016 budget, there were several hundred million dollars from the government to reduce toll tariffs. It didn't get a majority in Stortinget. So if the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is concerned about cutting tolls, he can start by supporting the government's proposal on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e584	No pain limit, really. Ketil Solvik-Olsen can't talk himself away from it: he's the king of tolls. The Akershus politicians believe that the drivers do not charge 120 kroner in tolls on the giant road project and will have it downscaled. Oslo does not need to build the toll-funded E18 West Corridor for 40 billion. kr in towards the city. We will prevent growth in traffic, we will give priority to the development of public transport rather than building roads so expensive that we can afford to drive them. We want them downscaled. But if we are to be able to scale down that project, the scale must be planned by the Vegvesen. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Transport: can the Minister for Transport assure him that he has given and empowers the Director of the Road to investigate and present sketches for smaller and cheaper road projects between Bærum and Oslo, in line with the wishes of the Oslo and Akershus politicians and the negotiators from there, and to ensure a solution that is cheaper for the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e591	It may be my dialect that is the problem, but I answered in my first question that this government wants to reduce the toll, which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås ignored. Oslopackakt 3 is a road project, but also a large collective project and a bicycle road project. So it's not like you're giving the impression of a motorway project with 14 to 16 files, as the mayor has said. It is a motorway project with three continuous files in each direction, a separate collective trajectory independent of the motorway and its own local roads just to get the traffic away from the residential area and into the tunnel. The resistance of the City Council in Oslo and SV here is as if we were saying no to the Vålerenga tunnel and the Opera tunnel. Do we really want to have traffic through Vålerenga city and past Oslo S, as it was in the old days? My answer to that is clearly no. It's sad that SV thinks the opposite. I also remember that under the red-green Oslo got approx. Ninety million. kr annually for public transport. Under today's government, they get 400 million. kr annually. It shows an enormous commitment to public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e599	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e602	In the Question Time on 4 May, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said the following: ‘We have not instructed anyone about the size or development of the E18. We will follow up on Oslo and Akershus’ common solutions for E18.” [[...]] That's what I thought was right. I would like to believe that the Minister of Transport loyally wants to follow up what the Prime Minister said to the Stortinget on 4 May, precisely that Oslo and Akershus’ common solutions should be followed up. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State can guarantee that the Director of the Road has the authority to investigate a downsizing of the E18 project, in line with Oslo and Akershus’ wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e612	Now I have first fixed lower tolls with today's government, and I have established that Oslopak 3 is far more than a motorway project – it's about urban development, public transport and bicycles, which seems like SV has not got along with it. When referring to a prime minister, one should also take along everything between the first and last sentence of the answer, and then one will find that there are two to three sections dealing with the involvement of the state, the assumptions of the state and the contribution of the state. It did not appear in the quotation made by the representative here. It is quite clear that there is a road that the state owns and that the state has views on, but the wish is that all three actors affected by that road should also agree. If it doesn't happen through new negotiations, today's Oslopackak 3 applies and there's an E18 inside. So I've been very clear many times that we're looking at solutions that take care of functionality, but usually at lower costs. But it's not unique for Oslopackak 3, I do that on all road projects. The cost growth of infrastructure projects under the previous government was too high, and I want the cost growth down, so I get more road and more rail for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e621	Karianne O. Heavy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e624	It is groundbreaking that tolls can go to operation and investment in public transport, that was a right decision. Now we see that the cost of public transport is increasing, that's a good sign, that means that more people travel collectively. Now I record that the Minister of Transport is eager to boast of his own policies, perhaps not as eager to see the results of his own policies and also not as eager to answer questions he actually gets. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to repeat the question asked a little earlier by the representative of Romemette: is the Minister for Transport now willing to allow a greater share of the toll to go to operation and investment in public transport in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e631	Today's government believes that we should try to invest in public transport through increased government appropriations. That is why today's government has said that we are, for example, shall contribute 50 pst. of the investment costs of large urban public infrastructure projects. In contrast, the Workers' Party Town Council in Bergen said that with the Workers' Party in the government they got approx. 15 pst. of its expenditure covered. Now they're going to get 50 pst. Similarly, I have already mentioned that while Oslo averaged 90 million in the last few years. kr from the red-green government, they get about 400 million. kr for collective action under today's government, which has a majority with the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is evidence that we do not see tolls as the only way to fund increased collective investment, but on the contrary, the government wants it to be prioritised through appropriations. I also see that those who are now concerned about the level of tolls represent the same batches that the media want to have the highest possible toll rates in the bombing just to scare the drivers away. It is a bit strange to criticise the Toll Advancement Party when its own local representatives want to increase the rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e638	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e641	The Toll Party continues with the Government Advance Party. Earlier in the Questionnaire we have discussed the introduction of tolls in the air, on the way there is a record after a record. In 2013, the drivers paid $8 billion. SEK in tolls, in 2014 SEK 8.5 billion. SEK – new Norwegian record – in 2015 SEK 9.2 billion. kr – new Norwegian record – and in 2016 the forecasts suggest a further increase. That is to say, the Progress Party will have a new catch in the water basin and will make it a noodle and own it as Norway champion in tolls. At the same time, tolls are increasing, and new projects are flowing. At E6 in Hedmark, the drivers have to pay more than 100 pst. of the road. At the E18 in Telemark, the toll percentage is higher than the red-green government added. My question is then: Do the tolls in Norway go up or down with the Progress Party in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e646	I believe that everyone who joins the toll debate knows that the representative Pollestad was the State Secretary when the current national transport plan was drawn up. The representative of Pollestad considered it appropriate to increase the level of tolls in Norway by 100 billion. kr. That is why the tolls are rising; it is a decision that has been taken while the representative Pollestad was part of the government system. It is true that new road projects that have tolls are still being carried out today, but toll rates are generally lower than those that the representative Pollestad felt were sound when he himself was in the government system. We want to further reduce the level of tolls. We have proposed to grant money in Stortinget and have been voted down, and we have proposed a toll reform that has been voted down. It's a little strange that more parties in roll-out debates give the impression that they think the toll rates are too high, but when it's actually suggested by the government to cut them – about how to make system changes – you're equally fully opposed. But it's a fact that today's toll level is lower than that of the previous government because we've made some changes. If everyone in this room who is now critical of tolls had voted in favour of our proposal, it would have been even lower. [[The President cut off]] I wish
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e655	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e658	I find it fascinating to hear an S.B. in favour of collective action in Oslopakak 3, an agreement they have voted against, a commitment to public transport which, with today's agreement in Oslo, involves 80 pst. bets on public transport. The new Lørenbahnen, the T-Bahn, was opened without a single penny in state allocation. Rather than bet on public transport, the red-green government, on the contrary, put in a road project between the Desert and Sinsen in Oslopackakt 3, so the enthusiasm and effort you now have is fascinating. To the E18 westward, there's nothing new that you wanted to scale down. I think the Municipality of Oslo adopted this for the first time in 2005, and the way up to the tunnel has been taken out in the field. The father now is that if you scale down more, it is the bus path and the bicycle bet that will be taken out. My question to the Council of State will be, because there is a debate going on, and what is important is: will the Council of State respect the agreement that is finally reached, both in terms of tolls and the ability to keep the option down, with low collective prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e668	There are negotiations where the State is one of the parties. Of course, when all three parties agree, the state will respect it. The important thing is that it is finally the Storting that adopts this, and it is when the decision-making decisions are made that we are doing it. But we want to contribute to the massive expansion of the collective offer in Oslo just to give people an alternative to a car. It's not until you improve your daily travel to people. And then we have to make sure that where there's a lot of traffic around where people live, people are being protected. That's what the Bærum diagonal is about, making sure that you get the traffic away from residential areas and to a sheltered area, a lot of it in a tunnel. We're happy in Oslo that we've got the Opera Tunnel and got the traffic away from the area between the Opera and Oslo S. Being against the E18 west corridor measures is going to be the same thing as being against the Opera Tunnel. Who today would actually go to the elections on that? At least I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e673	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e676	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Much of this questioning has been about the consequences of the poor political craftsmanship of the government in fiscal policy, which are now costing thousands of people their jobs, but let us, at least for the sake of variation, take a look at fiscal policy. Since taking over, the Right-wing Party Government has chosen to cut the taxes by around 20 billion. kr – mostly for those with most from before. So now we see a situation with the highest number of unemployed people that SSB has ever measured. This means that many Norwegian families are in a difficult and serious situation. And that is why the Workers' Party has called for stronger action packages and a government that is doing more to prevent unemployment from increasing. We have simply asked both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister what the employment effect of these tax cuts is, but without any answers. Finally, we asked the SSB, and the results are crystal clear: tax havens are expensive, and it's inefficient as a tool to create jobs. For the cost of generating one job through tax cuts, we could get 15 new jobs in the private sector by giving priority to public investment. Just after the SSB's response came, Siv Jensen claimed that the government has never said that the tax cuts are a measure to combat unemployment, but I would like to recall what Siv Jensen said in the financial speech last autumn: then she stressed that a lower tax level «is the main measure to promote conversion, value creation and employment in business» – not just one of many measures, but the most important one. My question is simply: Is Siv Jensen behind her own statement about her own budget, or will she in the future give priority to measures that we now know seem 15 times more effective than the government's tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e689	Yes, I support every word I said in the financial statements, and I agree with every single penny this government has proposed in tax cuts in order to get a more competitive tax system that helps future companies to establish themselves in Norway instead of in other countries. If more enterprises start up in Norway, it means, over time, more jobs in Norway, so it is important to have a competitive tax system in place from a transition perspective. As I understand it, the Workers' Party has spent $50,000 asking the Central Bureau for something we already knew. So they threw $50,000 out of the window to get answers to something they didn't need answers to. The government has always said that the most effective measures and instruments we have in the short term to combat increasing unemployment are not tax cuts but rather against public activity in the economy. That's exactly why we're doing it. That's exactly why we put forward a package of measures before Christmas of 4 billion. This is why, in the context of the revised budget, we have adopted measures of more than 900 new million. kr. None of them closer to 5 billion. kr is about tax reductions. It is about targeted investments, expenditure increases to increase activity in and around the municipalities most hit in the South and West. I had basically assumed that the Workers' Party agreed. So I think it's very strange that the Workers' Party continues to create a false tax-related discussion. It's two crazy claims from the Workers' Party. One is that tax cuts are the most important tool of the government to combat unemployment — they are wrong. The second claim is that this is where the government has spent the large amount of money – it is also wrong. This government has used this room of action for road investment, for school, for education, for research, for hospitals and for the community economy, but we have also implemented tax reliefs, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e698	Now, the Minister of Finance himself highlighted tax cuts as the main measure in the Norwegian economy, among other things. in order to increase employment. It's a quote from herself and not me. 900 million. As I said, it seems a little puzzled to the billions who have gone to tax cuts. Then we agree that Norway should be converted. We have also contributed to a tax settlement that will make the tax system more effective, that we are able to stimulate more private capital into productive enterprises. That's good. But it's not about converting into a society with a high level of unemployment. It's not a good starting point for future value creation to have 135,000 in Nav queue. It's not in Nav queue conversion going on. Earlier this year, we have heard the Prime Minister say that the government's economic policy is strong in combating unemployment. Is the Minister of Finance as satisfied as the Prime Minister when she sees the results of economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e707	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister has said, that economic policy now works strongly. Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates to a record low level, the krona has significantly weakened and thus strengthened the competitiveness of large parts of Norwegian industry and industry. In addition, we are pursuing an expansive fiscal policy, the whole point of which is to make sure, targeted actions and instruments against those parts of the country that are now struggling as a result of the severe oil price fall. What we are now seeing is that the development of unemployment has been almost stable since last autumn. The government doesn't settle for that. That is why we are strengthening efforts in the revised budget with new and targeted actions. I have recorded that many of the rapporteurs of the Labour Party in the areas concerned are also very pleased with the government's participation, because it triggers direct and immediate employment effects. And the whole point of increasing the public expenditure side is just to get employment up in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e716	It opens for one follow-up question – from Truls Wickholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e719	Now we hear it again: the government is talking about tax cuts in such a way that it's going to make us think it's not their main thing. We've seen it for a long time. Taxutt was not mentioned once by the Prime Minister during Højre's national meeting, and Siv Jensen has said in the debate that she has never claimed that tax cuts fight unemployment, and that tax cuts only form part of the budget's operating space, as she now says. We see that the government is not talking about tax cuts, talking about the importance of tax cuts down and talking about the size of tax cuts down. Despite the fact that Siv Jensen claims that tax cuts are only a small part of the room for action, this is not correct. Social security, wage growth and demography consume large amounts every year, but I do not have the impression that the government plans to cancel a team of government employees or to stop paying a pension. Everyone in this Chamber knows that the government debate is about a small proportion of the total budget, and that is this part we often refer to as the government's room for action. So that's why I ask again, how much of this real space of action does the government tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e728	Of the real space for action, the tax cuts are about 11 pst. The other 89 pst. have gone for transport purposes, for health purposes, for municipalities, for police, for research, for education. So this is how the government implements what the government has said we should, and that also means tax cuts. It is not right, as Mr Wickholm says, that the government is not talking about its tax cuts. Those who, on the other hand, are very concerned about the tax cuts of this government are just the Workers' Party, which is against all of them. But the tax bill that the Workers' Party would send to the Norwegian people and Norwegian businesses of over 10 billion dollars. kr, would not have been a contribution to the current situation of the Norwegian economy. It would make it more demanding if the bill went to the households, keeping order in their own economy, and would make it more demanding for businesses to get a blue bottom line instead of a red one. It is absolutely essential that we provide good framework conditions for our businesses, because it is those who must employ the labour force of the future, and that is the way we get unemployment down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e737	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e749	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1 by Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Prime Minister has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Kari Henriksen and Jenny Klinge, respectively, to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Defence, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Knowledge, will be taken up by the representative of Une Aina Bastholm. Question 13, from the representative Iselin Nybø to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him. The question was, at the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, moved and answered in response to question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e777	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e784	‘200 metres of rv. 13 between Granvin and Voss rush into the water on Wednesday, April 27. The road is one of the main trajectories of the inner Hordaland and among the most important east-west connections between the two major cities of Norway. Locally, there is now a great desire to be considered a long tunnel as a permanent solution along the Granvin Water. In response to the Storting, the government has not responded clearly to whether the extension of the Joberg tunnel will be considered an alternative. Will the Council of State initiate such an assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e791	The answer to which the representative Toppe refers states that ground drilling is carried out as a basis for a decision on what to do with Rv. 13 along the Granvin River. So we're already working on the process of figuring out what conditions are, and then making an assessment and concluding. Once these analyses are completed, one knows if it is possible to build the road as originally planned, what one has to do to get it stable enough — possibly fill in, or possibly do other things. The state road system is expected to have this conclusion ready in mid-June, i.e. in less than a month. If it turns out that it is not possible to rebuild the road as planned, we will of course need to consider alternative solutions. It will be a mistake for me now to advance what the result of such an assessment will be, but I can assure you that we are concerned that we will have the security in place. We are committed to making good progress, and we need to find cost-effective solutions to ensure that the road is completed as well as possible, and that as much as possible is within the timescale underlying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e798	Thanks for the answer. In a 1983 report, one concluded that the underlying conditions were so bad that Vegvesenet failed to fill in. When now 200 meters of road suddenly rushes into the water, it's quite dramatic. I understand that people are asking questions about the fact that one now primarily wants to rebuild the road on the same ground, especially since one is working on a tunnel for another part of this road section along the Granvin water. With an extended tunnel, you will also get a little road improvement past Granvin Church, a few hundred meters further towards Granvin Centre. Many fear that otherwise it will only be a matter of time before another race comes. I understand that it cannot be concluded now, but can the Council of State confirm that one will also get a proper and real assessment of the solution with including the tunnel in the work that is to be done now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e803	We want to look at the basics, and that's exactly what the Road Service is doing. And then one will make an assessment of what one has to do with them in order to get the best possible solution, and then the tunnel is one of the alternatives that can come. But everyone knows that once a built tunnel, it's more expensive than building today. This means that the more the tunnel one builds, the smaller projects get elsewhere, or the less a few will do on Rv. 13th@item: inlistbox Then there'll be a whole assessment between the standard you're adding and how far you're reaching. I think there are many sections on Rv. 13 which should be corrected. Therefore, it is important that we get cost-effective solutions in place. At the same time, I have to say that as late as yesterday, I visited one of the contractors who is working on this. They are themselves concerned with their safety, both at work and in the product they deliver. Entrepreneurs in general want to see that roads they have built are accident-free. Therefore, it is important that a sheep with all the actors working on this, and make an assessment, so that we actually end up with a project that will be as good as possible, while we will try to keep the bill as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e808	I thank you for your answer. I have a slightly different problem in the same area. Hardanger and Voss are one of the country's largest tourist destinations, and soon there's a high season for tourists. The travel director of the destination Hardanger stated to the NRK on 21 May that cancellations were not made, and that travel life now records losses of millions every day. One has a temporary rerun solution on rv. 13 via Granvinsvatnet, along with rv. 13 at Deildo between Kinsarvik and Odda are connected parts of the day, and one now has a column running in the Måbø tunnel for an indefinite time. At the same time, there is manual conducting in the Stavenes tunnel at E16. There are now many traffic obstacles for tour operators in that area. A gathering of travel lives is a matter of concern. Will the Council of State take a look at this issue and at measures that can secure Hardanger a more likely name now in the high season for tourists?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e815	It's an important issue that's being addressed, and that's something we discussed a little bit overall with people from the Road Administration a short time ago. Now there are a lot of different pathways that are somehow affected by road work and various problems. It is important that we ensure that we have as good a performance as possible during construction periods. It's not necessarily a very easy solution, but it's about at least making sure that people traveling in the countryside get information in suitable places. We also have to make sure that when people plan their travel destinations, they feel confident that they will actually arrive, that they can set up travel routes where they like to adapt their own departures, knowing that they will arrive without too much time and without too many unforeseen problems. We're going to work on that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e826	Now well known: ‘The Government shall apply from 1 June the operating fee of 88 SEK per seat on commercial routes. Onions has warned that this can lead to a route. If the fare leads to a scheduled route from the airlines, the Council of State has a plan to prevent a lower flight offer, including: in areas where air transport is the only real option for passengers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e835	As one has discussed in the Stortinget earlier today, the fee is now being imposed, which the government is obliged to do after a decision in Stortinget, although I think many know that the heart of that fee is not necessarily in my party. But of course we're going to follow it up loyally. In the situation that one here describes that it may go beyond the provision of routes to areas that really do not have a good alternative offer, it is also often coincident with aerodromes that are under the so-called FOT route system. There are aerodromes in which the offer is contrary, since they have won the tenders, will not in fact be affected, because one will compensate for the costs that the charge entails in the purchase made by the State. That's why I'm not worried about the route offer to District Norway. But it is true that on some routes where the charge is imposed, and where one has purely commercial grips, but which are usually to major regional airports or district airports, it is up to the airlines to assess how it affects traffic flows and the route offer. I would like to make it clear that I do not understand that any airline has said that they will cut their routes, except Ryanair, which will do so in the case of Ryanair, but not at the other airports from which Ryanair operates. But I have seen that there has been speculation about some of the traffic growth that has been with increased routes, sometimes being brought back to the level that was previously normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e844	I thank you for your answer and note that the Council of State does not have much concern about this. But I can only mention that, among other things, Kjevik is an airport where Onkøe has announced that they will be hit by route. The Government also has some issues related to the State aid problem and has clarified with ESA that the double charge exemption for transit and transfer passengers in the case of air exchanges between cooperating carriers does not involve State aid. However, I cannot see anywhere that the government has discussed the concerns such as: The Competition Authority has had, with the possibility for passengers to purchase a continuous ticket, and that the scheme actually discriminates against the airlines we have in Norway. Norwegian has already notified that the company will file a complaint with ESA if it is put in place. My question to the Council of State is: What assessments does the Council of State make of the fact that a legal dispute will be the reality of the scheme from the time it is introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e853	I would like to remind you that the constitutional responsibility for this matter lies with the Ministry of Finance, and it is those who have done all the investigations and the verification against, among other things. ESA in advance. That's why I don't want to answer that question. But I stress that today's government is concerned that we should have the best flight offer possible. Through the Avinor dividend policy and through regulatory policies, we have made sure that large billions of money are now invested in the development of many airports, precisely because we see that the travel offer and the travel wishes of the population will increase in the future. I find that on the TV 2 news channel this morning a BI professor was interviewed about this, who does not see that this will damage air traffic in Norway, even though Ryanair – according to the BI professor’s statement – uses it as a pretext to cut routes that they do not see as profitable. We will continue to stimulate the development of aviation in Norway in a good way. We will ensure that the fees we control in the Ministry of Transport keep a flat trend, but we also have to deal with the decisions made by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e862	I understood from the Council of State's answer to my first question that this is also not entirely acceptable to the Progress Party, which I actually understand, all the time the Progress Party has had in its party programmes since the party was founded in 1973, that an important job for them was to remove unnecessary fees. From the lot program today you can read the following: ‘The party has a fundamental belief that most people can decide for themselves how to spend their money. That's why we want to reduce taxes and taxes to give people the most a better economy that gives them both security and freedom in their everyday lives." In my county, Northern Ireland, Ontøe is one of the most important collective offerings that people use most every day. I want to ask the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that the introduction of a seat charge provides lower charges and more freedom for people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e874	I think the representative knows very well that the Progress Party is for a lower tax and tax level, not a higher tax and tax level. And although the fare for seats obviously does not create a pleasant mood for FrPs, we know that by sitting in government we have managed to cut the tax and tax levels in Norway by 18-20 billion. kr. I think that is a much better development than if we had gone off and allowed the Workers' Party to increase the tax and tax level by $10 billion, as the Workers' Party has proposed. We know that the Workers' Party itself has had a national meeting decision to introduce an air fare. We know that the Workers' Party has also discussed removing the tax-free system, which would have meant that the flight fee had to be increased by more than twice what is now happening, in order to compensate for this. And we know that the Labour Party has called for the boycotting of Ryanair, which would have the same consequence, namely that Ryanair would withdraw from Norway, with the same consequences for Smoking. The overall use of instruments by the government has been to facilitate, both fiscally and politically, in order to strengthen aviation. Then we're going to make the best of the decisions that the Storting finally makes. I think aviation, in total, is much better with today's government than with the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e887	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Sexual and reproductive health and nutritiousness have been a key priority in Norwegian aid in recent years. Norway, among other things, a responsibility for the old thousand years 4 and 5. Two weeks ago, the head of the Afghan midwifery association in Oslo was asking for increased support for this work in Afghanistan. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs continue to support assembly in Afghanistan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e896	Norway has been, is and will be a strong global support player for the health of women, children and young people. In 2016, around 3.5 billion. D from the aid budget for measures to support the health of women, children and young people, i.e. about 10 p.p. Support is channelled mainly through three global partnerships. This is GAVI, the Global Fund for the Combating of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Global Funding Facility for the Health of Women, Children and Youth. In addition, Norway provides funding through other multilateral organisations, civil society organisations and bilateral support. Training and education of health workers are central to the provision of health services and the construction of sustainable health systems. The best guarantee of survival at birth is access to qualified personnel. I visited Afghanistan last Saturday. Among other things, I attended. at a Norwegian-initiated conference to strengthen the position of Afghan women and promote equality in the country. Norway has been a pioneer in promoting women’s rights in Afghanistan, under varying governments. We're going to keep doing that. Afghanistan will need assistance for many years to come. Norway has been one of the major donors to Afghanistan, and Norwegian aid to the country will remain at a high level. During my weekend visit, I announced that Norwegian humanitarian aid to the country for 2016 will double to 208 million. kr. Much of this will benefit women and children. Norwegian aid to Afghanistan includes support for the training of midwives. Because investing in midwives, like Nybakk's representative, is investing in the lives of thousands of mothers, their families and communities. Norwegian support through projects directed by several civil society organisations has already contributed to the training of a significant proportion of all registered midwives in Afghanistan. I am pleased to confirm that Norwegian support for the education of midwives in Afghanistan will be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e911	I thank the Minister for a positive answer. Afghanistan has been one of the world’s most dangerous countries for women, not least in terms of births, births and reproductive health. After the fall of the Taliban, maternal mortality has fallen steadily, and births are becoming progressively safer, although Afghanistan is still a dangerous country to bring children to the world. Then it's quite right what the Foreign Minister says, and which I'm very pleased that he underlined, and that is that education, the schooling of health professionals and especially midwives are very important. Feroza Mushtari, head of the Afghan midwife's union, told me when she was in Oslo recently that while there were 500 midwives in the country in 2001, there are now 5,000, but there are too few. There is still a need for international assistance to this particular field, so I really want to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to both increase the allocation and take responsibility for the education of midwives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e918	I saw even when I was in Kabul this weekend, that there are still great needs in the field of health, as it is in the field of education. At that conference, there were also strong wishes related to women's rights in general, which are still under pressure in Afghanistan, and not where we would have liked them to be. However, as the representative Nybakk also points out, there is a clear improvement in relation to how it was during the Taliban in 2001. One of the areas that is also important is the follow-up of pregnant women and birth-related issues, and in the future I also hope that we in Afghanistan will be able to talk about family planning and other issues that are quite controversial. But we are following this in the future, and through the increased humanitarian allocation, we have more resources at our disposal in the humanitarian field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e925	Unfortunately, Afghanistan continues to be a country where women are relatively down the ranking line, and that is a long way to go. However, this is a field in which things have progressed, and I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses that he will continue – and also strengthen – this work. Then there are many other countries in the world where you are born, and the day you give life – that is, children in the world – are the two most dangerous days in a woman's life, and we know, for example. South Sudan is among the storks. So what I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that he also continues to prioritise sexual and reproductive health on a broad scale, including in terms of assistance to countries other than Afghanistan. He mentioned the vaccine alliance GAVI, which has done a great job, and also Norway, when we were responsible for the Millennium Goals 4 and 5. I would like to ask if the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e932	First two words about the situation of women in Afghanistan. At least it's positive that there are now four female ministers in the government, that's more than 20 pst. by the parliamentarians who are women, and the Afghan ambassador to Norway is a woman – that was also the previous one. I talked to an incredible number of strong and clear women in Afghanistan this weekend, as a follow-up to the women's conference we had in Oslo, and the one that was in Georgetown in D.C. earlier. In the coming months, we will present a separate action plan on women, equality and follow-up to Security Council Resolution 1325, but also on reproductive health, and show that we will continue the international leadership we have had for many years in this area. There will be a concrete and good action plan – I read a draft last night. I think the representative Nybakk will be satisfied with the action plan we are presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e950	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e957	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘We are now in a period when asbestos workers with exposure before 1980, while the use of asbestos was still widespread, are at increased risk of lung cancer, estimated 200-400 cases per year. [[2010-2020]] Early detection is essential for the possibility of treating lung cancer. Organised CT screening of former asbestos-exposed workers is established in several countries. What measures will the Council of State take to enable us to detect and treat lung cancer as early as possible in this risk group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e966	Pulmonary cancer is a serious and common cancer that affects approx. 3 000 women and men in Norway each year. According to the Cancer Register, cancer drugs in professional life are assumed to contribute to about 20 pst. of lung cancer cases in men and less than 1 pst. in women. Most of the professional cases are believed to be related to the combination of the inhalation of asbestos dust in the context of work and tobacco smoking. Nationally, estimates of lung cancer cases involving asbestos exposure vary between 85 and 350 cases per year, most of which are male. The figures are uncertain and depend on the degree of asbestos exposure and on historical and current smoking habits. Import and use of asbestos is prohibited in Norway, but asbestos-related disease is still being diagnosed among patients who have previously been exposed to asbestos dust. There is also a risk that new asbestos exposure may occur in the process of removing old asbestos and building works in old houses. Professional groups such as: construction workers, plumbers, carpenters, masons and janitors are particularly vulnerable. The relevant group of workers is already covered by current legislation. Work environment legislation requires workers who may become or have been exposed to asbestos fibres dust to undergo a health examination of the lungs and respiratory tract. Under current legislation, the employer shall keep records of workers who have been or may be exposed to dust or asbestos fibres. However, there is no comprehensive historical overview of asbestos-exposed workers in Norway. Work is now under the direction of the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, where, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, LO and NHO/Norwegian Industry, they seek agreement on the future use of CT screening at work involving exposure, including: for asbestos. A final report is expected by the end of 2016, including: will illustrate the benefits and disadvantages of imaging studies in asymptomatic asbestos-exposed workers. According to the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, we do not have strong scientific points of view to increase the use of CT screening of previously exposed asbestos. We are therefore dependent on waiting for more knowledge of lung cancer screening before a more detailed position can be taken on the increased use of CT screening in this risk group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e981	I thank you for your answer. It's a very heartbreaking thing, this. The thousands of construction workers, industrial workers and several others who were exposed to this from the 1940s until the ban came in 1980 did not know how dangerous – and deadly – it was. What has been the situation since the 1990s is that the asbestos regulation, which came, at least in an up-to-date form, that they are entitled to investigations, has been little followed up on the fact that that right has been implemented in practice, and in particular that it has been followed up with post-pension agreements, as they are also entitled to investigations. It is serious that those who have smoked and have been exposed to asbestos at the same time may have up to 90 times higher risks. Here we are talking about both the fact that this is a defined high-risk group, plus the fact that they have a separate right under the asbestos regulation and the work environment law. So I think the government should have a plan for how to get that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e990	It is quite right, as the representative here says, that exposed workers who switch to an employer without occupational health care, exposed workers who retire, or workers who were exposed in businesses that no longer exist pose a challenge. Here we cannot expect that the doctor without occupational competence will be able to follow up any exposure-related cancer under the regulations that exist. However, asbestos exposure requires the employer to keep a register of exposed workers, according to the work order. This register shall contain information on the name, date of birth, etc. as well as the exposure to workers. This shall be kept for at least 60 years after the end of the exposure and this shall also allow for any follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e997	I thank you for the additional reply as well. It's very important that they, one can say almost everyone, who was exposed to this from the 1940s until the 1980s ban, are out of work today. It's in the period now, 20 to 40 years later, that the disease can occur. That's why there's a period until 2020 when, according to professionals I've talked to, there's an increasing number of cases, there's a lot of cases, it can be up to 350 a year, as the Council of State also mentioned, at worst. So I want to ask the Council of State: it's obvious that the requirement of the old asbestos regulation was X-rays, and there was a screenshot bus in the 1980s. CT is today's x-ray, which is an advanced form of x-ray, so I think it should be a matter of course under the right to update the EU regulation in 2009, also updating the Norwegian regulation, so that it is today's advanced x-ray method, CT, they must have a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1006	In the comment section of the regulation on the performance of work, Section 14-3, second paragraph, states: ‘It follows from the first paragraph of Section 4-1 of the Working Environment Act that the standard for safety, health and the working environment is to be developed and improved at all times in accordance with developments in society. This implies that, if new study methods are introduced that are better than the current one, it is necessary to consider whether they should be used. The assessment must be based on what the health and occupational health authorities believe to be the right practice.’ So the representative is quite right that to the extent that the health and occupational health authorities experience that CT studies are going to be a more appropriate practice, what is meant by the regulation in the case of x-rays of the lungs. It also underlined the comment section. Now it is that it also depends on the fact that there is consensus in the professional community about the conclusion. A meeting was held with the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work on 15 April of this year, where this was a topic and where various other professional environments were also represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1022	‘The evening post has recently referred to discrimination in Norwegian hospitals. Systematic studies have shown correlations between patients with high incomes being operated more frequently than those with lower incomes. We know a lot about different health distribution in Norway, but we need more documentation on treatment outcomes. These matters should be a strong warning to the Council of State. What measures will the Council of State take to identify and combat such differences and to make treatment variations visible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1029	A recent study from the Cancer Register shows that high-income lung cancer patients have 66 pst. the more likely to be operated on than those with low income. Those with high education have 28 pst. more likely to be operated on than those with low levels of education. An important reason why we introduced a cycle of cancer packages was precisely to contribute to the reduction of discrimination. This was one of the first things I as a health minister started in the autumn of 2013. The introduction of package trajectories is precisely based on the national professional guidelines, and we ensure that the patient enters into a planned course, with deadlines for what will happen when the process progresses. It also means that there is a coordinator who is responsible for the right things happening at the right time. As a result, the package processes themselves will ensure a greater level of non-discrimination. Equivalent health services shall be provided in Norway. Income and education shall be without prejudice to the provision of individual patients. The study from the Register of Cancer provides important information on variation. We need studies and data bases to increase knowledge of the variation in patient access to and use of healthcare, based on socio-economic background variables. Data from this and other studies must be used as a basis for questioning and investigating the reasons for variation. Variation may be an expression of under-treatment, over-treatment or mistreatment. We need to be interested in unjustified variation in the consumption of healthcare, because this may be a sign of poor quality. Wide variation challenges the principle of equal access to healthcare and raises issues of proper planning, prioritisation and quality of services. Health regions have therefore been asked in the mission document to this year to reduce unjustified variation. Furthermore, all health regions shall jointly identify indicators to measure unjustified variation in the consumption of healthcare. Variation is also a theme of the next annual Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard. National electronic atlas service, launched in January 2015, shows differences in the consumption of healthcare, but we also need to see whether such variations lead to variation in treatment outcomes. Work is now under way, for example: by linking variations in consumption to the clinical quality records for children to see whether variation in consumption also results in variations in performance. In the long term, this will provide us with valuable information on the variation in consumption and performance of several diseases. I also see that in the professional community the report from the Kreftregister is the basis for a discussion. I think that's very good. That's exactly the kind of discussion you need, to get deeper into what's the reason for these variations. Are they justified, or are they unjustified? But in sum, this helps to increase quality and reduce unjustified variation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1046	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that there seems to be a cross-political consensus in Norway that unwanted variation is something we should combat, and that in its ultimate consequence does not support the objective of equivalence between patients and other populations in Norway. Although this study is very interesting, it is important to bear in mind that it does not show a clear correlation between cause and effect. Many people would say that a perhaps so important reason is that people with high incomes are more “demanding” patients and finer demanders also encounter the first line of healthcare, for example. in a permanent hospital, and that there is also an indication of the type of treatment you receive. I want to challenge the Council of State to reflect something more about more research, based on so-called socio-economic variables. We have a lot of research that shows variation, but we don't have a lot of research on this. Will the Council of State encourage the professional communities to include socio-economic variables?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1057	As I said in my first answer, there's something we want more of. Now that we're getting a better data base, it also provides a better basis for that kind of research. We have also launched quite large research projects through Norwegian Research Councils towards healthcare as a service provision. The Health Research Package is one of the main packages published in this area and provides the basis for good research projects that also shed light on these kinds of issues. It is important that we challenge the service on this too, because I have found, in the light of the knowledge we already have, that unjustified variation is a systematic failure in Norwegian healthcare. We do not need any more documentation about this to work with. We have to reduce unjustified variation based on the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1064	I fully agree with that. On the other hand, the government's aim is to create the healthcare service of the so-called patient, to which the Storting agrees. Incorrectly done, over-emphasizing the patient’s self-interest or individual preferences will help to reinforce differences and inequalities in healthcare. Since the Council of State is very concerned about making a point of its vision on the patient's health care, can he also reflect on this dimension in the discussion about unwanted variation in Norwegian healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1071	There will be a central theme in the prioritisation message that the government is about to present. The starting point of the patient’s healthcare is that the patient’s views on his/her own situation and treatment should be of considerable importance. I think there is a great deal of consensus on that, among other things. because it also affects the results of the treatment. This means that we also need good tools to enable the patient to take that kind of assessment, for example. what we are doing now, developing different forms of decision-making support where patients using new technologies can get information about really underlying, rather complex issues, but which can easily relate to the patient's experience and life situation. One will also be able to compensate for social and competence differences between patients in their ability to participate in this. But it is very important for me to stress that the individual patient's ability to choose and decide has an absolute limit. It's when other patients' chances are affected. Then it's important that we have at the bottom some values and principles for priorities that are governing. It will be a main theme of the message to be submitted to the Sizette.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1078	Then we jump to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1085	This question, from Iselin Nybø to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1088	‘The Government, with the help of budgetary cooperation with the Left and the KrF, has increased the focus on school health services. The Health Directorate has developed recommended staffing standards for school health services, including: one year's work per year. 550 secondary school pupils and one annual work per 800 secondary school students. Does the Council of State have the ambition to facilitate the achievement of these objectives by Norwegian municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1095	Investing in good growth conditions for children and young people is unquestionably a right investment. Good growing-up conditions are an objective in themselves, while we know that good health in childhood and youth provides the basis for good health throughout life – even in old age, health in childhood and youth is of great importance. Most children and young people in Norway generally have good health, but some have health challenges. Several studies suggest that the incidence of mental health challenges among children and young people is increasing. Psychiatric health challenges can affect everyone, everyone has mental health, but some are more vulnerable than others. In order for vulnerable children and young people to receive the assistance they need, challenges and needs to be identified at the earliest opportunity. Therefore, it is unquestionably correct to bet on lowthreshold health promotion and prevention. When, over several years, the government, together with its supporting parties, has been committed to strengthening health and health services, it is a clear signal that we are taking children and young people's health seriously. We've totaled 667 million. kr in the municipal framework, justified by the need to strengthen this service. In addition, the 2016 budget agreement granted a earmarked grant of 100 million. kr. for the development of the service. In recent years, high attention to health and school health services has led to a shift in growth in the total number of annual jobs in this service, but growth has not been consistent with the growth of resources in the first few years. In order to meet this challenge and to take more targeted action, we need more information about the annual services. Today, we lack information on the distribution of annual work between the two sub-services and how it is distributed among the different occupational groups. On a mission from the Ministry of Health in 2009, the Directorate of Health identified alternative measures to strengthen health centre and school health services. The Directorate proposed that, as a main step, the requirements for the content of the service be made clear, by way of subsidiary professional standards. The proposals have not been taken into account in the ministry, including: because the revision of the regulation for this service has been postponed, mainly because of the work on new health and care law, and since then work on the Storing Communication on the primary health service of the future. The size has in Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 requested the Government to establish a binding minimum standard for the school health service. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore commissioned the Directorate of Health to obtain a better overview of the annual situation in the service and to explore possible solutions for, and effects of, a binding minimum standard of service. When information from the Directorate is available, there will be a good starting point for further discussion on how to achieve the goals of an even better community health care for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1110	First of all, I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. It's good that we have ambitions on behalf of the school health service, because that's important. Rape and sexual assault are serious crimes that we as society must do even more to combat. It's serious to society, but not least it's hard to hit the individual who's exposed to it. In meeting with several students, we get feedback that sexual education at school is not a goal. One of the things that they're asking for is reflections, talking about, thinking about this with boundary setting. Sexual education is very much about things other than what's right, what's not right, what's a rape, when to say no. I wonder if the Council of State can say something about the role the school health service can play in the future sex education in order to improve quality and get a slightly different perspective from what is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1119	I believe that the school health service can play an important role in very much of the school's work. The Minister of Knowledge, who is sitting here, has also stressed that lifelong learning is to a much greater extent an integral part of school education, in its entirety, and the competence of the school health service is, after all, important in this context. We are therefore also concerned that the school health service is a service, but also a broad range of competences. We have e.g. have been concerned that municipalities should have psychologists. That is why our parties have agreed that we should make a legal claim. It's important. It is also the case that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is now working on its own sexual health strategy, and we are also going to present a separate youth health strategy before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1124	I thank you once again for the answer, and will follow up a little bit what the Council of State is about, that with the breadth of the school health service, for rape and sexual assault is something that also has a breadth in it. Some schools have hired policemen at school, not necessarily because of it, but to make ample use of the offer they can give. What professional groups does the Council of State see that we can recruit into the school health service to contribute to the fight against sexual abuse, what is going on, what is about the challenges young people are unfortunately facing from time to time? And how can we go about recruiting occupational groups other than health sisters and psychologists into the school health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1131	It is primarily a responsibility for the municipality that is responsible for the service, but the professional groups that are very often brought forward are, of course, health sisters, as well as psychologists, physiotherapists, but also personnel who have more social competence. I think it's in the combination of these different groups that you can find good solutions. But then it's also very wise that these decisions take place locally, and that's one of the reasons why the government has been against the designation of grants, for example. one specific occupational group in this field. Then it is the way that the grants to the earmarked pot that Stortinget granted in 2015 have now been announced as a reward scheme for those municipalities that can show that they have used the money that has been granted free of charge for the right purpose. They can now receive an additional reward. That's why we also believe that here we will see a better growth in the annual totals for this service in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1138	Then we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1145	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1148	‘ Rape is serious for those affected, especially children and young people may have many difficult years in front of them after such abuse. Scope mapping shows that as many as 5 pst. by those who are raped are raped when they are under 18 years of age. The government has chosen not to designate funds for the investigation and questioning of victims of rape. How will the Council of State specifically monitor and ensure that women’s notifications are taken seriously and that sufficient investigative capacity is put in place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1155	The government is very concerned that women’s reports are being taken seriously and that sexual offences in particular are to be prioritised in police work. In the 2016 assignment letter to the Police Directorate, there are clear indications of good quality and effective treatment of sexual offences. In addition to several cases to be reported, in order to reduce the number of darknesses, the resolution of sexual offences shall be higher for 2016 than the average over the last three years. Similarly, the clearance of violence and sexual abuse against children shall be higher than the average over the last three years. The Ministry does not earmark funds for the various areas of crime. In its letter of objective and priority to state lawyers and police officers, the National Advocate emphasises the priority of serious sexual offences. In addition to these leaders, it is the individual police officer who can best give priority to local challenges in his or her own police district and on the basis of key priorities. It is up to the police officers, as leaders of the local prosecution authority, to ensure that the Riksadvokat's objectives and priorities in criminal proceedings are respected in each police district. In 2016, the Advocate General shall carry out a specific nationwide investigation into the investigation into rape cases. The study shall focus in particular on the quality of research and the results shall provide a basis for comparison and exchange of experience between police districts. Public prosecutors shall pay particular attention to the use of investigation plans in rape cases in police district supervision. Since the change of government, the police and prosecution authorities have been strengthened by 1,054 new police posts. At the same time, 100 new police lawyers and 16 new state lawyers are on the payroll. Then I also expect faster progress and better quality in the investigation also in such matters. I also mention that we are reforming the entire victim care system. There is a great potential for improvement in the follow-up of those standing at the police station and telling about their history. It is therefore important to ensure that assistance is available after notification. There is an extremely difficult situation to be in – and even more difficult to face after the notification has been delivered. At the same time, this is a crime that requires much of the actors in the criminal justice chain and of the auxiliaries. The State Children’s Home is established to improve the care and legal security of children under 16 years of age. The number of children's homes in the 2016 budget has been increased by 83 million. kr. Victims of rape are entitled to assistance and protection and effective treatment of the police and judiciary. How police, prosecution authorities and courts handle rape cases means much to the confidence of the vulnerable and of the general population. In my opinion, the current measures will deal with the issues raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1174	Thanks for the answer. The Minister refers to broad, truly inter-political measures that are highly uplifted in the United Kingdom. What's the challenge is actually to get to that top priority. Then it does not always help with several jobs and good letters of assignment. That is why the Workers' Party has made use of this budget year to ensure that the money actually goes to what the Minister says it will be used for. I would like to hear if the Council of State can elaborate a little on how a specific person will ensure that we do not have women who say that the notification is not taken seriously, that they are not being questioned, that they have to wait, or that the case is being dismissed. What concrete action does the Council of State consider it important to take in order to remove those experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1179	Firstly, it is good that there are broad measures on which there is a cross-political consensus. There can be no disadvantage in these measures – there must be an advantage. Secondly, I agree that just adding resources in itself is not enough, but there is an important point that more posts have been created in the police, more police lawyers and also more state lawyers. That being said, I also answered my question about what the government is doing further, and what we are doing next to it, for example. through the letter of entrustment to the Police Directorate, where there are clear indications of the quality and effective handling of sexual offences. The fact that the Riksadvokat says that serious sexual offences should be a priority is signals that police officers have to deal with. In addition, a specific nationwide study is being carried out in the current year alongside the important work on victim care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1186	Thank you for that. I fully agree with the Minister that it is a great advantage that there is mutual political agreement on this. Many of the measures listed by the Minister are, of course, measures that are a continuation of the action plan presented by the government of Stoltenberg, and which have also been widely welcomed by the United Kingdom in terms of action. So there's no disagreement about that. What I'm asking you is how one manages to follow up in the outermost term. What one sees is that it's not always helping with action. The Advocate General's Directive is not new to the year. They've had time to deal with cases more than just this year, and we see that the fraction of breaks increased by 9 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the How does the Minister feel that the measures he refers to here will ensure that the percentage and the unfortunate trend we see from these two years is broken?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1193	The question raised by Mr Henriksen is really based on a proposal that funds should be earmarked for specific areas of crime. It is always the case that earmarking funds for e.g. can be provocative. specific areas of crime, but I think you have to think very carefully about what negative consequences it can have. The government's assessment is that it's not a proper tool, but it's not said that we're just going to add more resources, like this government has done, we have to do more. I believe that the fact that we follow up on what is a broad cross-political consensus is very clear signals also out to the extremes of what should be given priority. For example, the National Attorney's special nationwide investigation of the investigation into rape cases and the pressure put on it, and not least the efforts to reform the entire victim care system, will be very important contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1203	This question, from the representative Jenny Klinge to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Defence, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1206	I read my question: ‘People who are subject to electoral review shall be taken seriously, both in the healthcare system and in the justice system. Unfortunately, too many things are being blamed today. What do the Council of States mean? What are the most important steps that could be taken to ensure that significantly fewer electoral cases are imposed?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1215	As the representative of Klinge says, rape victims must be taken seriously, both in the healthcare system and in the justice system. The government prioritises measures that can prevent and combat rape, high, and important steps are taken to ensure good quality in the investigation of these types of cases. Firstly, it is essential that sufficient resources are made available to follow-up rape cases and to ensure rapid evidence. Since this government joined, the sector has been strengthened by about 3 billion. DKr and it has been added to more than 1000 new police posts. Secondly, it is important to give political leadership to ensure that rape and other sexual offences are prioritised in police work. In the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate, there are clear indications of good quality and effective treatment of sexual offences. In addition to several cases to be reported, in order to reduce the number of darknesses, the resolution of sexual offences shall be higher for 2016 than the average for the last three years. Similarly, the clearance of violence and sexual abuse against children shall be higher than the average over the last three years. Thirdly, it is important to ensure that experience of successful methods is exchanged to other police districts. The Advocate General conducts a specific nationwide investigation into the quality of investigations into rape cases. The results shall provide the basis for exchange of experience between police districts. In addition, police district oversight lawyers shall pay particular attention to the use of investigation plans in rape cases. On behalf of the Ministry, two comprehensive evaluations were carried out, one on the Rape Group in Kripos, the other on police work on sexual assault. The latter recommends 16 measures to increase the quality of police work on sexual offences. Many of the challenges identified by the evaluations have already been followed up by action. Others will be safeguarded by the reform of the police, which aims to improve the quality of the police's work and to strengthen the professional environment. In a letter to the Police Directorate dated 9 May 2016, the Ministry asked for the status of the follow-up to the measures, with a reply deadline of 1 June 2016. The Ministry will consider further follow-up after this and after the Riksadvokat study. There is a separate action plan under work for an investigational uplift, with particular attention being paid. to national standards of good conduct, working forms, methodology and control procedures in the investigation. Then I would like to mention the need to strengthen victim care. Violence has huge human and social costs. That is why we are also reforming the entire victim care system. In this work it is quite central that the victim should not be left alone in the event of a report, but be met and cared for in a good way by both police and public assistance. Finally, I can also mention that the State Children's House, which is set up to improve the care of and strengthen the legal security of children under the age of 16, has been strongly strengthened in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1234	I thank the Council of State for your answer. A high rate of abduction when it comes to sexual law offences is a big problem. And it's bad that the NRK before Christmas in 2015 could report that 80 pst. by the infringement cases against young people are eliminated. Leader of the Police Lawyers, Sverre Bromander, said at the hearing of the Judicial Committee on Children's Homes that the new practice, in which the prosecution lawyers hire out, is professionally well-founded, but that there is no significant height to the loss of resources. He announced that no cases had been resolved or sent to the state attorneys since the change in organised appeals was introduced at the beginning of October 2015. He then informed me of an increase in the number of stays and a longer period of proceedings in this area if it was not taken. Has the government taken this warning seriously and taken action to avoid being warned by police lawyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1243	The detailed question I am not able to answer on the standing foot. If the representative Klinge wants a good answer to that, she must come back to it with the Minister of Justice, either here or, of course, in writing. Otherwise, I refer to my answers in the first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1250	It's okay. To the next question: there has been a steady signal that other issues in the police have been far higher than working with electoral boards, and that electoral cases are not given high priority in the police. Other issues have a higher status, such as organised crime and drug crime. How does the government ensure that the increase in the number of those who investigate and bring cases to justice – as pointed out in previous answers by the Council of State – actually leads to more people working on law offences such as selection and sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1257	Firstly, I think it is important to pay public attention to this. It is also important to ensure that as many as possible of those who fall victim to serious sexual crimes know what to do — at least those who are at an age where they are able to do so. Secondly, it is important – as I have also said – that there should be clear political signals, and the political signals should be given priority and process. I mentioned in my answer, among other things. the development of standards for both good tradesmanship, work forms, methodology and investigation control procedures. In addition to increased resources for the police, there may be important contributions to raising the research rate, i.e. to resolve fewer cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1268	My question is: ‘In the June 2015 report on the action plan against violence in close relations, the government shows that many children and young people are subjected to rape and that abuses often start early in childhood but remain hidden. It is important that such abuses are detected early. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change the objectives of competence for the education of teachers, kindergarten teachers, child protection educators, health and social workers, etc., to include knowledge of sexualised violence and abuse as well as typical signs of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1277	When sexualised violence and abuse occur, adults who encounter children and young people, for example, need to be informed about the consequences of sexual abuse. in kindergarten or school, be able to identify signs of abuse so that they can be detected as early as possible. It is also important that this be done on the basis of professional judgements, and that cooperation be established between those who first suspect, and professional communities with knowledge and competence to deal with such serious problems. The Government’s Action Plan ‘A Good Childhood Ends Life’ was launched on the 25th anniversary of the United Nations Children’s Convention in December 2014. An action in this plan is to include knowledge of violence and sexual abuse in vocational training. I know that the institutions of relevant education are concerned with providing students with the necessary knowledge to enable them to fulfil the important task of participating in the development of children and young people. In order to ensure that all students from teacher training, including kindergarten teachers, have knowledge and skills to deal with violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, the Ministry of Knowledge in our established changes to the framework plans for all such education. The amendments shall take effect on 1 August. It is apparent from the framework plans that everyone who completes a teacher training course must have knowledge and skills on this serious topic. They shall be able to see and identify signs of violence or sexual assault and to initiate the necessary measures under the applicable laws. The Ministry has clarified that the changes in the framework plans mean that all candidates who complete teacher training after the 2016-2017 academic year shall have the necessary competence in line with the changes in the framework plans. Corresponding provisions will be included in the new framework for five-year primary school teacher training. As far as health and social education is concerned, the government is working to change the way we control the content of education. The plan is that when we get to the goal of this work, there will be a review of what should be the learning outcomes for these educations as well. It is natural, as the representative points out, that sexualised violence and abuse should also be important elements here, and that it is addressed where relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1288	I thank you for your answer. I've read the new circular on government.no, and I think it's an important step in the right direction. It deserves the Council of State to hear from us who are also in opposition. In my question, I mention more education. The reason for this is that as a member of the Parliament's Committee on Remuneration, I agree to deal with approx. 50 cases a month that are about compensation for ruined lives, where public blame is. It's about a school, a child's protection, a health service, a police department, a judiciary, etc. who did not so, or who did so, but did not engage. Little Christoffer's line "I think you can see that sea" has well become stuck with us all. There was no sexual assault, but we're talking about the same phenomenon. Now the Council of State says that he will take the initiative for similar changes also in other education, and I wonder if the Council of State can elaborate a little more on which education he thinks about, and when those changes may come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1299	I thank you for that, which there is certainly also agreement among all parties, namely that it is important that this is in place in all teacher training. In my answer I also said that also in health and social education, which includes the education that the representative mentions in his question, we work with a new management system. One question is probably a knowledge policy question: to govern through framework plans, how detailed should the framework plans be, and how should they be built up? There are some considerations that need to be taken; for example: the need to balance the needs of services, the professional freedom of educational institutions and the smooth and unbureaucratic organisation of training institutions. But as I said, I also believe that in the case of the professional groups that work very much both with children and others who are subjected to violence and abuse, it is natural that there is also a central place in the knowledge of violence and sexual abuse. We hope to conclude that work during 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1308	I thank you again for the answer. Then I have another question, because with just newly educated people it will take too much time before the public sector is competent enough. The Drammen, HSN, Institute of Human Rights, Religion and Social Sciences, has been re-trained since 2009. 450 people from all over the country: school, kindergarten, child protection, Nav, school health, BUPA, DPS and crisis and incest centers, foster parents, a pastor, dentist, midwife, police and an ambulance driver and people working with lone minor asylum seekers. But the common denominator for all of these is that they have to pay themselves, up to 60 000 kroner for some. Will the Council consider allocating study places to this end, so that all those in need of this training can take this as further and further training, and preferably with those in basic training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1317	Just so it doesn't get stuck with a misunderstanding: if we take teacher training as an example, it's now clear that it comes in, for example. in kindergarten teacher training, and it is also part of the new master's training for teachers. But it is not that these have not been issues in the past, but there have probably been major differences between institutions and institutions. We also have great confidence in the professional and professional environments of universities and colleges, which are concerned that the students will be equipped to go out in, it is themselves, school, social services or health services in one way or another. – This just did not see the misunderstanding getting stuck. The specific question here is: do we also need further and further training, and – in concrete terms – do we want to create study places related to this? It is a budgetary issue that we have to consider in the context of the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1328	I allow myself to refer the question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Sexual harassment, rape and sexual intrusion are a social problem that needs to be combated and prevented. There are few arenas other than school that can ensure that all children and young people learn about, discuss and reflect around the sex, body, sexuality and boundaries. What new concrete action will the Council of State take at school to prevent sexual harassment and rape?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1337	Two general considerations first: firstly, I agree with the representative of Bergstø that this is a social problem. It may be one of the most important developments in the last 20–30 years – that it has gone from being viewed as a private problem, that is, it affects the individual, to seeing that this is something that has some patterns behind it. It's not random who's hit. So it's also a social problem. It is somewhat similar to the fact that family violence was once viewed as almost a private matter. It's not. It's a social problem. The second is that I understand that the representative Bergstø is calling for new, concrete measures. I just want to stress that at least as important it is all the time to see if the measures we actually have are working -- that we're not just doing new things, but also seeing if what we're doing is working. Then the school has an important role to play in detecting and preventing harassment, violence and abuse, and not just at school. But the school also has a role in raising awareness and giving knowledge to the students. In the previous question, I was concerned about what we do in kindergarten and teacher training. In the case of initial training, the theme is multi-disciplinary, and mention of sexuality, sexual demarcation, violence and sexual orientation lies within several of the objectives of the curriculum. We have recently presented a big message, Fact – Depression – Understanding, where we show that today's curriculums are characterized by substance hardship. That's just too much right there. As a result, the curricula do not provide the students with adequate training. We're proposing a clean-up. We propose that the curriculum should be reduced. But we also propose a trade union renewal to ensure that schools are further developed. We have proposed some multidisciplinary themes, which are not new to the school. They are there to a large extent today, but we suggest that these are the priorities for the renewal of the trade unions, and then at the premises of the trade unions. One of the themes proposed is public health and lifelong learning. Some of the objectives should be to be able to see skills and expertise in the context of current, relevant and important issues in the lives of students. The Communication states that self-respect, interpersonal relations and sexuality may be relevant themes under the multidisciplinary theme of public health and lifelong learning. Finally, I would also like to mention that in April this year the government presented the follow-up of NOU 2015: 2, To belong. Agents for a safe psychosocial school environment, i.e. from the so-called Djupedal range. Although you often don't think of sexual abuse as part of the bullying problem, it's to the highest degree. Sexual harassment — shellfish words that are either gender-based or based on particular sexual orientations or what it should be — is also bullying. So the general work against bullying in school includes, to a very large extent, this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1348	I thank you for your answer. There may be a lot of grey zones in an infringement, it may take time to recognize what has happened, and a lot of people experience both guilt and shame, which makes it difficult to tell about what has happened, and also place the responsibility where it belongs, with the attacker or the perpetrator of the infringement. Maybe you were also drunk when the offense took place, and so you don't remember. We've seen a famous scene from the SKAM series, where Noora walks up with the brother of William, Nikolai, after she doesn't know what happened. The question is how to give young people the confidence Noora shows in SKAM, and how to give young men like Nikolai respect for the boundaries and knowledge of being able to read the signals that are in a situation, and realize that no is. The question is how the school should contribute to that very thing, which is a quality of sexual education that works in the lives of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1355	First of all, I agree that there may be a lot of grey areas, and that it may not necessarily be that it is as easy to be clear in the feedback as one goes on to report this – perhaps especially with regard to violations. If you have been subjected to clear assaults, it is easier to find tracks, it may also be clearer to yourself that this is something you have to report further. A few points: cooperation between the different authorities in the municipality is crucial here. It is also essential for the municipality and schools to be able to draw on the competences of health care, healthcare and police and judicial authorities in particular. The second is that without going too far into the exact series SKAM, it illustrates that this isn't just about sexual training. Another issue is, for example: use of digital, social media – what is law, what is not allowed? There's one thing we've put a lot of emphasis on: preventing digital bullying, but also informing students that, for example. spreading images of others in compromising situations is not only stupid, it is also illegal. You can be punished for it, and you will be punished for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1364	I fully share the views of the Council of State, and that's exactly why it's important to have a broad perspective on gender, body, sexuality and borderline. What's an intrusion? What is volunteering? How are you going to deal with the things that can be very difficult to figure out in children and young people's lives about sexuality and growing up into? It is important, then, to be careful to touch the theme, to have safe and accessible adults in kindergarten and in school who can carry both bad and good secrets and be present for wonder and conversation. Then I think it's a good idea to start early with that conversation, with that kind of teaching or thematics. That's why I'm wondering how the Council of State will ensure that even the smallest get a knowledge of the subject, i.e. in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1369	Even in today's kindergarten framework, the content document governing kindergarten, it can be said, there are formulations and lashes to make children aware of, for example, own body, problems around it, boundary setting, that kind of thing. We have also announced that we are going to make a new framework plan, and I see it as quite natural that it is both taken care of and developed in a new framework plan. Of course, it has to be done on children's premises. I would also like to mention that in the wake of the very, very serious infringement cases that have occurred, and are now under investigation in several kindergartens in several cities in Norway, I have had a meeting with relevant actors in the kindergarten sector to see if we need more national support, guidance, information and guidance, just to enable staff to see and discover it in case of abuse. It's worth remembering that most assaults don't happen in kindergarten, but elsewhere. At the end of the day, however, I would warn against getting too detailed from the political team and from Oslo, because to a large extent we also have to rely on both the municipalities and the professional judgement of teachers and educators.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1382	This question, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative of Une Aina Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1385	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘One of the multidisciplinary themes proposed as a whole in a new curriculum work, as announced by the Government in the Report. St. 28 Facts – Depression – Understanding, is public health and vitality. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to ensure that high school students receive training in the subject of rape and how it is reported and handled, or how will the Council of State facilitate such knowledge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1394	In the big message Fag – Deeping – Understanding, we are putting up with a renewal in line with the principles of the Knowledge Promise, the previous major school reform. The innovation we put forward does not concern the delineation of individual themes or individual questions about what will be the content of future curricula for subjects. That's an important point simply because that's not the way we've chosen to set up the curriculum. I can elaborate on it, too. The practical assessments of the contents of the curricula shall not be carried out by the Ministry, they shall be carried out by professionals in the field of vocational renewal and shall be carried out on the premises of the subjects. This means that neither the three multidisciplinary themes mentioned in the Storing Communication are finally defined. This theme of lifelong learning is addressed in the Communication, with an individual perspective and a social and social perspective. Areas that could be covered are physical and mental health, lifestyle, consumption and private economy, but also self-respect, interpersonal relations and sexuality. Once again, I would like to stress that these are issues that are not unknown in school today. They're present in the curriculum, and they're going into the premise of the subjects. It's not about interrupting the history class to learn about, for example. mental health. Everything's going to happen on stage. One of the objectives of this is to be able to see skills and expertise in the context of current, relevant and important issues in the lives of students. The themes therefore need different content for the different age groups, and the curricula of the different disciplines will provide different approaches and perspectives for the training of the themes. At the same time, one of the premises of the big news is that curriculums are too extensive today. In other words, we're going to reduce the content of the curriculum, not expand, so that we better facilitate deep learning. That's why I want to warn you that we're starting processes where we're going too detailed to get themes into the curriculum. It is also an important point that the objectives of competence in the various disciplines allow schools and teachers to make professional adjustments to their professional content. The Communication also proposes the development of national guides to the curriculum and the different curricula for subjects. What's going to be part of the curriculum for subjects, and what's more natural to put into guides, is going to be considerations that have to be made in the process. The curricula for subjects shall be consulted widely before being established, so there will be a good opportunity to record when the proposals are on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1405	10 pst. by Norwegian women, they are subject to rape during their lives — half before they reach the age of 18. That means that every twentieth woman under the age of 18 is subjected to rape. We should have the goal that everyone should determine their own body and their own sexuality. Then the curricula are important, and I think further training and retraining of teachers are important, as the Council of State was concerned with a previous question. But what I also want to ask the Council of State goes on the school's role towards the community and family. How do you help others in their youth, in addition to what happens on the school bench, gain more knowledge and become aware of the limits and, in particular, the problem of rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1410	Obviously, school as a common venue in most societies is very important to provide information to both parents and students. My very clear impression is that especially in the case of sexual assault and rape, many schools work well, for example. against the Russian era, by raising awareness of the students. But we can't now say that we're good enough, that we're done. At the same time, I think it's a little important to say that even though the school is a common arena, the school can't do everything. This means that some of the most important things are the services available around the school, for example. a good health sister service, which the government and the cooperation parties have given very high priority, and good cooperation in the municipality between different agencies, including with the police. I think it is at least equally important for the more short-term prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1417	Amnesty’s February 2013 opinion poll points out among others: the fact that a major reason for the rape of so many young girls is a lack of prevention work in school. That is one of the reasons why we are asking recurring questions about this – even today. The study shows that the school does not provide young people with sufficient skills in demarcation and knowledge to prevent sexual abuse today, and it has the opportunity to do something about it during its period. Only 44 pst. Young people between the ages of 18 and 29 said that they had received training or information about this in school, i.e. only 44 pst. Of these, only 14 were meant. training was good enough. So how will the Council of State ensure that teachers have good competence and tools for training in border management, respect for borders and rape so that the new objectives of the curriculum can be properly implemented? I would like a slightly more profound answer than a budgetary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1424	The most important thing is that we do this through broad, comprehensive measures, such as: in teacher training. That this has a place in teacher training is important. We're also doing it through the place that it has in the curriculum. It's important. We're doing it by strengthening the nursing care. It's important. We do this by strengthening organisations like Sex and Society and Rosa, which receive grants from state budgets to travel around and in cooperation with the schools have a teaching system for the students. What I don't think we should do is go into the individual classrooms in a very detailed way, in the individual school and in the individual teacher's teaching, and impose a particular type of teaching system – not because it can't be tempting at times, because there are a lot of good and important themes that you're so concerned with finding out that it's important to have detailed governance. It is simply because I believe that overall, this is not how we should run the school. We should have overall framework plans that say something about what students should get knowledge about, and what students should learn, but we have to largely leave it to the school and the teachers how it is done. But I take most seriously that this is not good enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1431	Question no. 13 is already answered. That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-25.ana.ud719e1446	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
