ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e95	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Gunnar Garbo died on 29 June, 92 years old. Garbo represented Left and Bergen for four periods, from 1958 to 1973. He was a member of the Financial Committee, the Protocol Committee and the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. From 1964 to 1970 he was chairman of the Left Party, and in 1972 and 1973 he was the parliamentary leader. Gunnar Garbo was central to the renewal of the Left in the 1960s, and he played an important role in the formation of and Left's participation in three governments. He also put his particular mark on the EC and later EC debates in the party. Garbo began his professional career as a journalist in the Official Journal of Bergen in 1945. He was also an editor of the Nidaros newspaper in Trondheim for three years. As a journalist he remarked with a sparkling pen and a glowing commitment. He was going to keep writing all his life, and his production of chronicles, articles and books on foreign and security policy is impressive. Gunnar Garbo was primarily an idealist, always searching for new truths. But he was also a humanist and a radical social liberal. He was faithful to his convictions and put honesty in politics higher than tactics. He believed in the power of the debate and in the open change of words. He had a burning commitment to international issues, assistance and disarmament. He was an expedient activist for peace, in streets and squares, even after he had reached an old age. In his last job, as Norwegian ambassador to Tanzania from 1987 to 1992, he was given the opportunity to analyse aid work in Africa. With all his political experience and his international commitment over several decades, the meeting with Africa was something like Garbo. He later shared these experiences in a strong book. There's reason to believe that his international commitment arose at an early age. In particular, his father's resistance struggle during World War II Garbo's belief in international relations as a completely essential supporter of peacekeeping work. He graduated at the Sydneshaugen School in 1943. Two years earlier, his father, the opponent Ingvald Garbo, had been sued for German martial law and executed. In 1943, Garbo had to flee to Sweden, where he joined the Norwegian police forces. At the same time as Garbo was at Stortinget, he was also a guest researcher at the Institute for Peace Research. From 1962 to 1970 he was a member of the Committee for Armour Control and Disarmament. From 1974 to 1986 he was Deputy Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with UNESCO as the main field of work. This is some of a number of boards, trust and public office Garbo had through his long-standing burning commitment to international issues. He also sat on the board of Norwegian People's Aid for many years. His commitment was noticed, and he was nominated several times at the Nobel Peace Prize. We bring peace to Gunnar Garbo's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e120	Representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kenneth Svendsen, Anna Ljunggren, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Ola Elvestuen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e150	The representative, Ruth Grung, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e155	On behalf of Hadia Tajik, Kjersti Toppe, Martin Henriksen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Marianne Aasen, Torgeir Micaelsen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I propose an offensive policy to increase the number of health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e160	The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e166	On behalf of the major representatives of Torgeir Micasen, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Tove Karoline Knutsen and myself, I would like to propose a gradual introduction of a single school meal, funded and justified as a public health measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e171	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e191	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e200	I would first like to thank the members of the Committee for their good work and cooperation on the message on the export of Norwegian defence equipment. Norway has one of the most stringent national arms export codes. This is a result of important policy choices. We have a moral responsibility to work actively to get the weapon into the wrong hands. A strict regulatory framework with open and wide-ranging debate through annual news reports gives people and elected people insights. It secures the legitimacy of the defence industry in Norway. At the same time as we have a strict code for the export of defence equipment, we must constantly follow the situation in the world and how developments are progressing with regard to the use of weapons. We must constantly be open to and consider whether Norway should review our arms export rules. It is therefore worthwhile and necessary that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence go through the country to which Norwegian defence equipment is sold every year and make any corrections to the legislation. Norway has an important tradition of contributing to international control and disarmament efforts. Examples of this include: when Norway made a great effort to establish an international ban on landmines and class weapons. The most effective way we can ensure defence trade in defence equipment is to participate in common international rules on the hall of arms and other defence equipment. It is therefore important that the government continues to work in the relevant international forums in order to achieve a common standard for user documentation, and to work towards its becoming a norm in NATO. As I have stressed several times before, the most fundamental task of an election is to ensure the security of the inhabitants of the country. Then we need both a national defence and a national defence industry. It is important that the defence industry has clear and long-term framework conditions, but also clear legislation ensuring defence exports. Just as Norway must import some weapons, so our own defence industry must also be able to export its product. There is a broad political agreement on this, and there must be a basis for the debate on the export of Norwegian defence equipment. The Centre Party, together with a majority in the Committee, requests the Government to consider submitting the export control notification at the latest during the second quarter following the implementation of the export year, whether it is practicable to do so. Getting the message before six months after the end of the export year would make the debate even more topical, as the time for the decisions in question is closer in time. I want to stress here that one of the things that has already progressed at this point is that we're discussing the export for last year. We have previously handled the arms export message more than one year after the end of the current period. So that's progress. The Committee points out in its opinion that the government has so far chosen to retain the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates, although no information is available at present that Norwegian ammunition has been useful in Yemen. The government has based this on a request for a pre-war line to the countries intervening in Yemen. I mean, this is wise of the government. As a case spokesman, I would like to point out that in the setting on page 9 an incursion has entered a wrong wording. In addition to the above, it says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' decision to close the hall of ammunition for the United Arab Emirates is an expression of this. It's a factual error. The correct wording shall be that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decides whether the temporary stoppage of the Chamber of Ammunition of the United Arab Emirates is an expression of this. Although this is a weaker formulation, it is nevertheless an expression of a healthy pre-war attitude. The Central Party, together with the Christian People's Party, Left and SV, asks that the government take the same stand against all countries participating in the Saudi-Arab coalition which intervenes in the war in Yemen. The system of end-user declarations for exports of strategic products is important and should be developed further. This can be e.g. be made possible by using random checks on the declared end-user documentation in some cases after a period of time. It may be necessary to find a system for applying random checks or other control mechanisms to arms importers. The central part of the game asks the government to take a closer look at what possibilities you can see. It is natural that one in this work is familiar with the larger Member States of NATO and smaller countries such as Finland, Sweden and Switzerland. The Central Party also asks the Government in a multi-stakeholder proposal to clarify the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement can be entered into Norwegian law or regulation. This will give them a stronger legal anchor and not just reflected in their own guidelines. Among other things, the Red Cross has pointed out that this could ensure better enforcement of the ATT through enhanced feasibility to verify the decisions. It is also worth remembering that Switzerland, as a major exporter of defence equipment, has already sucked for such a grip. With this, I would like to address the proposal where the Central Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e231	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e236	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for once again having done a very good job with the export message. The defence industry is an integral part of our defence and security policy. In fact, a national defence industry with competence in critical capacity and technology areas can be crucial to our ability to ensure national security. The Norwegian defence industry is highly specialised and has world-leading technologies and products. The industry creates significant values and has quite a thousand employees. The defence industry is also among our leading innovators and creates ring-effects and jobs for a number of subcontractors. The total value of exports of defence equipment in 2015 was under 4.2 billion. kr. Neighbouring countries like Sweden and Finland are, together with our allies in NATO, the area to which we export most. A total of 93 pst went by. of A-material and 81 pst. by B-materials to NATO allies plus the Nordic and related countries – it is not always the case in the debate. This applies not least to Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO. We have an open defence market, and we import 70 pst. of our capacities, including those of neighbouring countries such as Sweden. Therefore, exports and international cooperation are also «a prerequisite for the continuation of a national defence industry capable of delivering material and systems to the Defence and supporting the activities of Defence», as expressed by the majority of the Committee. That is exactly why it is important that we have a rigorous and ethically sound regime. We should also work to do better internationally. Although only a few percent of Norwegian defence equipment goes to countries outside the Nordic region and NATO, that export must be clear within the Storting decision. That is, not exports to countries in war or civil war, nor to countries with great violations of human rights. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a licensor who must ensure that it does so, and it is important that we can then check every year what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done or has not done in this respect. What is now a few years of concern in the Storting is possible export to countries participating in the bloody war in Yemen. The reports from there are strong, and it just gets worse and worse in Yemen. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, the critical human rights situation in the country is also present. The Committee shall display, inter alia: In 2015, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty produced reports demonstrating violations of humanitarian law. This year, as last year, the Labour Party co-sponsored a proposal to ask the Government to consider whether the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT – Arms Trade Treaty – can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation to give it a stronger legal base than being incorporated into the U.D. guidelines. It will create a cleanness and a proper division of labour between state powers. I would like to show that the purpose of the ATT Agreement is, inter alia, to: the establishment of the highest standards for, or improvement of, the regulation of, global trade in conventional weapons, and the non-disclosure of weapons. Finally, it should also be mentioned that we have a strict regime with regard to having an end-user statement to all countries outside NATO. The Committee is in favour of Norway continuing its work with the widest possible support from all countries to the ATT Agreement. Finally, it is important, and I think it is necessary that the defence industry listens to the voice of the people, respects the Storting and lets not sell arms to countries with wars and conflicts or violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e255	Exports of defence equipment are under strict control in Norway. Our guidelines represent restrictive practices in which countries can receive different military equipment from Norway and which criteria lead to refusal to export. The new guidelines are strong and clear and represent a responsible and restrictive practice in which countries may receive different military equipment from Norway. The list provides clear guidance for assessments leading to refusal of export, including those related to internal repression. I agree with what has been said about the importance of strict and predictable legislation – strict because we see a world where several regional crises are escalating, increasing in strength and scope. This means that we need to use the mechanisms resulting from the legislation. Predictable legislation is important because legislation must also provide industry with long-term framework conditions. The Foreign Ministry’s legislation and guidelines on the processing of applications for export of defence material are very strict. In the last few years, they've become even more stringent. All licence applications for the export of Norwegian defence equipment are subject to individual and thorough assessment — in particular in view of the risk of the use of the material. Licensing obligations have now been introduced for all products originally developed for military purposes. There are good reasons why we should base strict legislation. We are bound by our international commitments, including the UN Arms Trade Agreement and criterion 2 of the EU criteria. The size decision and unanimous clarifications also apply. Norway's self-imposed restrictions through the 1959 Decision mean that we do not sell arms and ammunition to the parties during a civil war. Exports of weapons and ammunition to a country are excluded if their forces do not comply with the international law of the war or systematic violations of humanitarian law are established. The government has also further strengthened the legislation ensuring that respect for human rights and civil and political rights in the country of destination in question are included in export assessments. The open public debate on export control provides important input into the enforcement and enforcement of the legislation. Several have included in the public debate the sale of materials to countries participating in the civil war in Yemen. In the Right, we're worried about the serious situation that's unfolding in Yemen. We believe that strict Norwegian practice appears precisely in this situation. As the Communication refers to, an expert panel set up by the United Nations in January reported great concern about the humanitarian situation in Yemen. Despite the fact that it was not concluded that Norwegian ammunition was used in Yemen warfare, the government decided the same month, until further notice, to withhold the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. This decision shows that the legislation is working. It shows a vigilance in view of the risk of the use of Norwegian defence equipment. It is an example of our strict practice and a pre-war line from the Norwegian side. The regulatory framework must also be predictable. It is more difficult to facilitate this in an unpredictable world, but the more important it is. It's important for several reasons. I would like to highlight our home industry in particular. The defence industry contributes to national value creation, technological and industrial development, export income and high-tech jobs. The industry employed nearly 5,000 annual works, and the value added amounted to nearly 4.5 billion. kr in 2015. Norwegian enterprises often participate in multinational defence equipment companies. Predictability and long-termity are then absolutely necessary. I think it is important to point out in the debate on exports that the majority of our exports go to well-known markets. As the representative of Nybakk just referred to, in 2015 amounted to 93 pst. of exports A-material and 81 pst. B-material to NATO countries, Nordic and other European related countries. Finally, I would like to say that there is full agreement in the Chamber that we should have transparency about exporting defence equipment. The ongoing debate over the year on the export of defence equipment from Norway, and the debate here today, shows that there is a broad and inclusive societal debate that contributes to the transparency and predictability that we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e280	Let me also thank the case rapporteur for his dedicated work. The defence industry is growing. It is important for Norway, important for technology development, important for employment, important for subcontractors, important for districts, important for the development of related technologies, such as drone technology, robotics, space technologies and environmental technologies. The unique cooperation with the FFI should also be highlighted. The Norwegian defence industry also contributes to Norway's integration with larger foreign producers and to our becoming producers of advanced components in larger systems. It is important for industry itself, but also important for Norway's close military cooperation with close allies. And last but not least, the Norwegian defence industry is an integral part of Norwegian security policy. It enables delivery security, upgrades and maintenance, which contributes to our preparedness. I want to dedicate my last minutes to Left and SV's comments. Do people drink less beer if Norwegian beer production is banned? Do people eat less chocolate if the Storting forbids Norwegian chocolate producers to sell their products? Despite the fact that the Stone Age did not end due to a lack of stone, as far as I know, it has never been a lack of weapons that have led to peace. So if we can agree on this, then the SV and the Left's many comments on this matter are not due to the belief that war does not start or end, but are expressions of a self-declared moral compass that the rest of us in this room do not seem to have. The rest of us support during war, while the Left and the SV lead the fight for peace. For both parties, it is now becoming difficult to find advanced and high-tech jobs that satisfy both the moral and climate-based current. And if the use of money saved through dirty oil extraction is also excluded, the use of funds from the State pension fund should also be excluded. So what are we going to live on, and how are we going to maintain well-being? At least it's obvious that we can't all just knit luxefths or produce tricycles and foot-forms. We can't live on the green shift either. And if you just wish, a lot of this technology comes from companies that are leading the defense industry. Environmental technology is a spin-off effect of the industry representatives from the Left and SV want to impose such strict export restrictions that it is equally possible to reduce it. Even the production of Norwegian enterprises operates through subsidiaries abroad, the representatives want the Norwegian authorities to have control over. Therefore, they are asking for an investigation into whether Norwegian export legislation could also apply in other countries, just as US or German export legislation would apply to German and American companies in Norway – it would be assumed. The same representatives also want the Stortinget to process licence applications. They therefore ask on page 9 of the recommendation that such applications be presented to the Stortinget, while the U.D. has an application for treatment. In this context, the Stortinget shall conduct proceedings in full transparency, and potential importing countries and their intentions shall be illuminated and discussed – in order to promote peace and tolerance and perhaps some strenuous diplomatic relations. I also record the Labour Party's somewhat ambiguous attitude to the end-user statement, where the party on the one hand wishes to maintain a strict code of conduct for the export of defence material, «with thorough prior assessment of risk and end-user», while the party does not support a proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, where the parties ask the Government to ‘develop the current system of end-user declarations’, in order precisely to achieve the aim the Workers' Party wishes to achieve with the note. Obviously, there are different environments that need to be satisfied at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e297	There is broad political agreement on the importance of having a Norwegian defence industry capable of exporting Norwegian defence material. This agreement has two main reasons: The Norwegian defence industry is important for security policy reasons because it ensures the defence of important national competences. The defence industry is developing high-tech solutions that contribute to increased value creation in Norway. When examining Norway’s defence industrial strategy in the spring of 2016, all parties in the Committee also agreed that ‘exports and international cooperation are a prerequisite for the continuation of a national defence industry’. At the same time, there is broad agreement that there should be transparency on the scope and arrangements of Norwegian exports of defence equipment, a restrictive code that prevents arms exports from Norway from coming to wrong hands, and annual reporting to the Storting to ensure parliamentary control. We must prevent Norwegian arms exports from having undesirable consequences. That is why, since 1959, we have had restrictive legislation. In recent years, the majority has stepped up export legislation to prevent Norwegian defence equipment from contributing to internal repression or violations of human rights and humanitarian law. For many decades, the Christian People's Party has actively contributed to the development of this restrictive legislation. We want Norway to be a nation that promotes international security and peace, conflict resolution and commitment and controllable arms control. As a result of our legislation and alliance, the Member States of NATO and Sweden and Finland are taking most of Norwegian exports of A-materials, such as weapons and ammunition. This year’s report shows that 84 pst. of such exports went to these countries in 2015. The annual communications on defence exports have come a long way in the past. Therefore, the Christian People's Party and the majority want the export control message to be presented during the second quarter after the end of the export year. The majority decided in 1959 that Norway should not sell arms and ammunition to parties in a civil war. In recent years the regulatory framework has been strengthened, including: in order to prevent Norwegian-produced weapons from entering into receivers where there is a high risk of weapons being used for internal repression or serious violations of human rights or humanitarian law. In the last year, a critical search light has been put on international arms exports to countries that are parties to the bloody conflict in Yemen. In January 2016, a UN-appointed expert panel presented a critical report expressing great concern at the humanitarian consequences of the war there. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that in 2016 the government chose to withhold the export of Norwegian-produced ammunition to the United States of America, although it has not yet been documented that Norwegian ammunition has been used in Yemen. This is a leading where-line Christian People's Party supports. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, will temporarily refuse to grant licences for such exports to several countries that intervene in the war in Yemen – and not just to the Emirates. We are also involved in proposals to develop today's system of end-user declarations for exports of strategic products, by carrying out random checks after a time. And we are involved in the majority proposal to investigate whether the content of the ATT agreement can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation and not only reflected in the Ministry's own guidelines. The Christian People's Party wants a reinforced code combined with openness and democratic control with international arms trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e330	It is quite true that Norway has a very strict and in many fields a very good code for arms exports. In this setting, there is even such a radical proposal from the majority that you should know if it is practically possible to present the message before the summer, so you can improve it further. But there is still considerable potential for improvement, in the SV's opinion, which we take up in a series of comments and suggestions together with the Left, and which I will briefly mention. Firstly, we think that further openness about why a grant of permission or refusal in retrospect could improve the control that the Storting is going to carry out with the arms export. It should be possible to achieve a better basis than today, without prejudice to the industrial interests of the operators selling. Secondly, we would like to ask the government to take a closer look at a particular issue that is likely to be more topical in the years to come, namely that Norwegian-owned companies have subsidiaries in other countries. They are, of course, subject to the legislation of that country, but it should be possible to see whether, through ownership policy, we can influence them to comply with the same standards and rules that we perceive to be best for Norwegian companies and that are agreed here in the Stortinget. Thirdly, we have two proposals together with the Left and others to improve the system of end-user declarations. It's about how the system works, and it's a theme that's been multiple for a long time to try to move on before NATO, where we don't require such an end-user statement. Norway has been working for many years to get such a system in place. We mean that it's now time to move on by taking the lead. Fourth, as I would say, the most important of these issues is that we should stop selling Norwegian weapons to countries that are at war and conflict, and that grossly violate human rights. It's really not about a lot of countries today. It is a small group of countries in the Middle East, in the Arab Peninsula, which are among the most documented when it comes to the human rights situation in the world – I believe there is a broad consensus that many of them are – and to which we sell relatively little weapons. It is entirely possible to introduce such legislation. It could have had political and symbolic significance. It wouldn't have great economic consequences for the actors themselves, but we could, together with others, help to influence it. This is one of the few instruments we have. A direct reason why we have now put forward a proposal with others to temporarily end arms exports to the states that are part of the coalition that took part in the war in Yemen is that both the UN and voluntary organizations have documented significant violations of the international law of war, that there is one of the worst humanitarian conflicts in the world now, and that it is difficult to see why we are going to sell weapons to any of the actors who participated there. Finally, let me use the last two and a half minutes to answer the representative Tybring-Gjedde: one of the very few advantages of the Progress Party being larger than SV is that I am talking after Tybring-Gjedde, so that I can answer what he said in his post. Actually, I think there's a simple premise that's the significant inconvenience between us, and the premise is that I think that supply and demand are real sizes, and that the economic laws work in almost every field, but slightly different. Regulates an alcohol more strictly, increases the price. Stopping an access or producing less of it actually reduces usage - believe it or not. That's well documented. The same is true of chocolate and almost all other products. But one must know the individual market. This actually applies to weapons as well. If we ban chemical and biological weapons, it's less used. When we reduce the supply of landmines through legislation, it is produced less because of standards, and then it is also used less. If fewer handguns are available, they are also less commonly used. There's no automatic context, but it's a context. And it's strange here that if the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party don't believe that a strict arms export regime has any influence, then my question is, why on earth do they support what they call the world's most stringent regime, if it doesn't work? We think it'll work, so we want to have it a little bit tighter. I record the suggestions from the Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e351	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e356	Like all the parties of the Great Britain, the Green Party greatly appreciates the fact that the Stortinget has for a long time held a strict, restrictive code for arms exports and reinforced it over time, but the more important it is, of course, that this legislation and the legislative intentions are actually being followed. In this debate, the issue of exports of armaments to countries involved in the Yemen conflict is particularly relevant. Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Saudi Arabia are referred to in the arms export notification as emerging markets for the Norwegian defence industry, and immediately thereafter it is referred to as a challenge that those countries participate in the Saudi coalition intervening in Yemen. In 2015, we sold A-materials to Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman, and we exported B-material to Saudi Arabia. This is said to be done on the basis of assessments by the authoritative team. It is fine if the Minister of Foreign Affairs gives a little more detail on what team it is, but Norwegian practice is that intervening states are not included in the 1959 Stortinget Decision, which says that ‘the main view should be that Norway will not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war threat’. In the present setting, it says: ‘If it is established from an authoritative point of view that the forces of a country do not act in accordance with the international law of the war or that systematic violations of humanitarian law are established, the sale of weapons and ammunition to that country will not be permitted.’ As early as January this year, the United Nations panel of experts on Yemen reported back to the Security Council that the coalition’s attack on Yemen was in violation of international humanitarian law, and Yemen is today a disaster area where famine threatens and where 3 million people are internally displaced. I think it's hard for the North to understand how selling arms to countries that contribute to such man-made humanitarian disasters – I would stress, of course, that the coalition is not alone in being responsible for what's happening in Yemen, but still – can fall outside the rules. Nevertheless, the previous and current government has looked through its fingers with this practice. That is what the Greens now believe the Greens should end. We therefore very much appreciate the fact that this year the government decided to tighten up arms exports to the United Arab Emirates, but we still support, of course, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Left, and the Central Party and the Socialist Left when they call for the decision to apply to the other countries which intervene in Yemen. The Green Party has previously proposed that countries to which it is not to be exported be explicitly listed publicly because it will then be easier to address export issues in advance and not discuss afterwards whether country x or country y was within or outside the regulatory framework. The Greens also support the Left and SV in the need for increased transparency and specification of the criteria underlying each refusal. Finally, I think it is a big misunderstanding that it is in the interests of the defence industry that Norway is about the rules we have for arms exports abroad. The Norwegian defence industry is very important. It provides many jobs, and it is a leader in technology development – as many have pointed out, providing many other benefits in addition to weapons – but this industry is also completely dependent on popular and political acceptance. It is provided by means of a magnification that sets a clear framework, which is unambiguous in the regulation adopted by the Stortinget and which gives the arms export industry a predictability to which it is easy to deal. It serves the industry, it does not undermine the future of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e377	There is a broad political consensus that Norway should have a viable defence industry. These are important industries that are technology drivers in both the military and civil sectors. Significant commercial parks have grown around the large defence companies – important district work sites for Norway. This creates values and jobs in many municipalities. In order for the Norwegian defence industry to be viable and maintain high technological quality, it must be possible for them to export. Our own markets are not sufficient to satisfy the needs of the defence industry. We also know that in order to strengthen Norway’s defence capabilities, the defence industry – the fact that we also operate with our own defence industry – is important in the concept of securing Norwegian sovereignty and safeguarding our own defence capabilities. That is often forgotten in this debate. It's important to establish. In order to facilitate the success of Norwegian enterprises in a competitive market, it is necessary to provide for the most stable and predictable framework conditions. In this way, we also help Norwegian suppliers to show their credibility and reputation. The decision to allow exports of defence equipment is taken sovereignly by each country. At the same time, international cooperation on export controls has developed. Norway is active in this work. These include: because the information that is shared and the controllers that are being negotiated provide the framework for our own export control to a large extent. It is important that Norwegian companies and companies comply as much as possible with the same rules as other countries with which we trade and compete. It is the government’s objective to facilitate the widest possible long-termity and predictability of the defence industry, within the framework of a rigorous and robust regulatory framework. As many have experienced, Norway’s control regime of exports of defence equipment is one of the most stringent in the world. We apply a number of criteria and principles in the assessments of licence applications. These criteria consist of two articles of the United Nations Arms Trade Agreement — ATT — and the eight EU behavioural criteria. In addition, we have a strict national practice based on the Storting decision of 11 March 1959. Our tradition of transparency is long. The degree of transparency is significant compared to other countries. It's not always possible to get the impression of it if you listen to what is provided by information. The message we're handling here today is 21st in a row. That means that in 2016 we marked that it was 20 years since the first message was submitted. Several countries provide annual reports on their exports, but it is unique to Norway that the notification is addressed in the Stortinget. Control of exports of defence equipment can be challenging. There are many considerations to be taken into account. Under this government, we have followed up and strengthened legislation and guidelines in important areas. In order to ensure clear control, we have introduced licensing obligations for materials originally made for military purposes, regardless of the current state of the material. Another important step has been to bring together all the principles, criteria and considerations involved in the examination of licence applications in a common consolidated list. This update of the guidelines ensures the most systematic assessment possible to avoid the use of Norway’s equipment for internal repression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e405	There is a majority in the vote for a proposal to investigate the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement, whether they can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation – regulations are something that the government provides – because they are then given a stronger legal base than today when they are incorporated into the Ministry’s guidelines. We believe this gives both a cleanness and a proper division of labour between the state powers, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister about his view of having that very question addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e410	There's a majority for this in this room, so it's clear we're going to figure it out. I will not draw any preliminary conclusions relating to this. It has also been investigated earlier in the implementation of the ATT Agreement. The Stoltenberg government requested the approval of ratification by the Storting, where it was established that the implementation of the agreement does not require legislative or regulatory changes. But it was decided to include it in the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was the assumption of the Stoltenberg government that ATT is a legally binding agreement in itself. We're bound by it, and it's secured by these guidelines. But now I understand that Stortinget wants us to go through this one more round, and it's clear we're going to do that. Then we'll see if it will contribute to an even clearer implementation of what is the important intention behind the ATT, or whether the conclusion that was drawn some years ago is still standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e417	My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about the same issue. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that ATT is a legally binding agreement, and that therefore there is no need to implement it in Norwegian law, but that it is a good idea to have it as a more loose piece of legislation. Like the previous replicator, I'm also busy that there should be a neat relationship between the Storing and the Government, and that one should know what one has to keep to. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that by including Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement in the Act, one will have a much clearer delineation, a much clearer clarification, than one has through today's system in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e422	Now I'm asked by the Storting to investigate this, so I don't think I'm going to draw any conclusion, but I see that there are arguments both ways. What is a fact is that the Storting ratified the ATT agreement on the basis of a proposition promoted by the Stoltenberg II Government, which states that the implementation of the agreement does not require legislative or regulatory changes. The guidelines are strict and predictable and the consolidated criterion list in the guidelines helps to ensure this. Once we have ratified the ATT agreement, when the Stortinget has done so on the basis of what the government has presented, it is legally binding on Norway – once we have ratified it. The question is whether we should follow this through what was chosen in its time, follow the guidelines that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to deal with, or whether to have it in the form of regulations or laws. It can be argued for this. We've been dealing with what the previous government has done here, and we think it's been good so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e429	In the series of plural comments, I ask the Foreign Minister to note what is in the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Advance Party, indicates that there are challenges associated with Norwegian defence equipment ending up in authoritarian regimes. In the long term, undermining the legitimacy of the defence industry is at risk.» There is a slightly different view in the committee on the question of a temporary stoppage of the hall of all material to the parties involved in the war in Yemen. I respect that the majority have a different view, but I can imagine asking the Secretary of State – because we have a case behind us where a decisive stop a hall to Emirata with the foundation: If it turns out that it is sold material to other countries that participated in the coalition, as part of that war, the Storting will know, so that one can go into it, look at it – in retrospect or when it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e439	There are some aspects of the situation in Yemen that are important to clean up. The situation in Yemen is not affected by the Storting decision of 1959. It is the legal government in Yemen that has asked for help to overthrow a rebellion. We can't export to Yemen, neither to Yemen's government, nor to the Hutiens, nor to anyone behind this uprising. But when the government that sits in Yemen has asked for help, there have been different interveners. Saudi Arabia is one of these, as well as the Emirates and others. So there has been some information, not least about bombing targets in Yemen, which are very worrying, and there have been particular references to Saudi Arabia's actions related to these bombings. But in the case of Saudi Arabia, we export neither weapons nor ammunition to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e444	I am fully aware of the status of the war in Yemen and the international image around him, and that there is a coalition that participates in the request from the government side. I am also aware that there are significant breaches documented on both sides; it is very important to get them out. But I'm also aware, and it's certainly also the Foreign Minister, that there wouldn't be anything in the way of temporarily holding on to all the hall of A and B material to the countries that participated in the coalition. What I in any case asked for was that if it turns out that we are selling to some of these countries, as it was discovered and reported and taken hold of in winter, publicity and the Storting will know about it, since it is, after all, an important information that I believe it will be of interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e451	First of all, I would like to make it clear that we have no evidence that Norwegian defence equipment has been used in Yemen. It is also the case that I have said temporarily that it does not open up the export of ammunition to the Emirates. But it is open to exports of other types of defence equipment, including to these countries. The previous government opened for exports both to Qatar and the Emirates, and previously it has been opened for export to Kuwait. There are no changes. There must be an individual treatment of these applications, and there is a lot of material that is also not applicable in, for example: Yemen. We have no evidence relating to these conditions, so it has to be an individual treatment. The size will be given information if you want to open up to, for example: exports to some of these countries, through the regular routines we have, on a large-scale notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e456	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e464	This should be a debate and not just a reading of documents, and that is why I was thinking of having a debate with the representative, Mr Solhjell. The representative Solhell claimed that he wanted the Storting to look at export licences in retrospect. It is then possible to have comments where it actually says ‘in retrospect’. I'm not going to read the whole, but at the end of the comment on page 9, it says: ‘The size is not transparent in licence applications pending in the U.D.’. I guess that's not exactly in retrospect. If the representative Solhjell thinks that that comment means something else, that's okay. Item 2, end-user declaration: where Norwegian manufacturers of advanced components are part of large systems, e.g. in US systems where there are up to 20 countries – JSF, for example. or F-35 is a system in which Norway produces advanced components included in this — is the U.S. export legislation applicable in the United States. Of course, an end-user declaration on an advanced component included in such an aircraft may be desired, but if you have it, you cannot produce these components that are the basis for technology development at Kongsberg. It's just like that. It is not possible to withdraw from world trade or to cooperate on the technology side – it is not possible to do so. You might want to do it, but you don't want to do it. In fact, we cannot ask for an end-user statement on what is all, the most advanced in Norwegian defence technology. So it was if it increases the price of weapons. The ones I used as examples were beer and chocolate. If you have free imports of beer and chocolate, you need a lot more to avoid getting beer and chocolate in the same line as if Norwegian producers were producing beer and chocolate. Of course, it would go beyond Norwegian workplaces, but that was my whole point. If you do not want advanced weapons from Norwegian manufacturers, the weapons will become less precise, because they come from other suppliers that produce less precise weapons. Then they become more random, so that there are more people who may be killed and murdered in a conflict, because you don't have precision guided weapons – they don't kill those who are actually going to be taken. And then there are Norwegian export control regulations, which I have actually been involved in developing myself through my work in the Ministry of Defence. It is because we want to contribute to the just war – the fight against repression, the fight against barbarism and the fight for deterrence. That's like 99 pst. of all advanced weapons manufactured, have never been used. That's the whole point of producing advanced weapons, not being used in war or conflict. They are to be discarded when they are no longer advanced, and new advanced weapons are to be acquired and not to be used. That's why we have these advanced weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e482	It's very rarely a great success to expose the whole Storting to a private debate, so I'll try to round this in such a friendly tone I can handle. I have to say a few things. First of all, yes, it might say ‘in retrospect’ in the comment, but when it says ‘admissions’ and ‘rejections’, we may have thought that ‘it goes without saying’, as one says in English, that a refusal must be given in order to gain access to it, and so does the granting. At least that's the point. When it comes to the complexity of subsidiaries in other countries, not least all components of modern weapon systems are composed of, it is absolutely complicated. That's why there's a need to look at it. But there is no doubt that there may be advantages in trying to use ownership policy to ensure that what we regard as good rules and standards, which we have adopted here in Stortinget, is followed by Norwegian owners. Weapons are a very special product, which in international legislation is subject to very special regulations, very special possibilities, for example. for States to subsidise it, and wholly special trade regimes. But the reason why we have a weapons export code is that it's a product we want to try to regulate so that they don't end up in the hands of those who can use them in a armed conflict or to suppress their own people. Since we believe in it, we support such a code. We think it has an effect – little if we just do it alone, much if more countries do it too. That's why we think with the Left that we can make a lot of improvements in it. What surprised me first of all about Tybring-Gjedde's posts was that he argued as if that kernel idea was quite stupid, as if it were not really going to affect supply and demand. I think that's completely wrong. At least it's very strange, if he thinks so, that the Progress Party now supports that we have it all referred to as one of the world's strictest arms regimes. So I see that the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts are far, far from what all the parties say in the settings and their posts, while the SV and the Left broadly support it, but will go a little further in important fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e498	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e514	Documents 17 for 2015-2016 deal with annual reports for 2014 and 2015 from the European Parliament delegations to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, the Interparliamentary Union, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the European Parliamentary Assembly. It is important that the Storting has a broad commitment to international issues. Participation in parliamentary assemblies is a valuable opportunity both to promote Norwegian interests and to gain more knowledge of different themes in other countries. The annual reports for 2014 and 2015 from the Delegations to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Committee show that the participation which provides a good opportunity for exchange of views with other European parliamentarians on important European policy issues and the interface between Norway and key EU-related institutions. In 2014 and 2015, negotiations on international trade, including the TTIP Agreement between the United States and the EU, have been a major topic for discussion in the EEA Committee. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the crisis of migration and refugees and the fight against terrorism have been well founded in several interparliamentary forums, not least in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The interparliamentary union has had a spotlight on terrorism and migration. The Committee believes it is positive that the IPU, as a more global institution, contributes to raising the 'forgotten crisis' in the Central African Republic on the international agenda. In the Committee's view, the broader composition of the IPU also contributes to the fact that the themes are not only highlighted from a European point of view or based on how they are reflected in the interests of rich industrialised countries. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has discussed the development of human rights and democracy in the Member States and sees some disturbing features, including: in Azerbaijan. The work of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has been marked by the fact that economic crises in the Member States have had an impact on defence budgets. Other key issues have been the internal burden-sharing of the alliance, developments in Afghanistan and the admission criteria for new members. This setting is consistent, except for an in-depth comment from the Central Party on the NATO summit in Wales, focusing on security challenges and reducing defence budgets in some NATO countries. A consensus committee sees the importance of Norwegian parliamentarians in international forums helping to raise awareness and knowledge of important challenges in the north and maritime security more generally. It shows that Norwegian parliamentarians can complement the work of Norwegian authorities otherwise to ensure increased political awareness and knowledge on issues where Norway has clear interests and values to defend. Norwegian parliamentarians have also contributed, both in the OSCE context and in the Council of Europe context, to observation of elections in countries facing different democratic challenges. Against this background, the Committee urges the Stortinget that Documents 17 for 2015-2016, on annual reports to the Stortinget from the Permanent Delegations of the Stortinget to International Parliamentary Assemblys, are annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e533	The rapporteur has given a clear overview of the work of all the committees. I will go a little further in terms of the report of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee for 2014 and 2015. It covers two years of important developments in trade policy: the US-Asia TPP Agreement, increasing debate on TTIP and increasing skepticism in Europe, doubting the US's commercial involvement through the admission to the US presidential election campaign and confirming through 2016 and the Presidential elections themselves. We have had an increasing debate on the TiSA agreement at home. The 2016 report will cover a year when uncertainty will affect the picture. The situation today is that two large-scale negotiations are in the freezing box – TTIP, of which we are not part, but would be affected by, and TiSA, the service trade agreement, which we are in. Yesterday, at the EFTA Ministerial meeting in Geneva, we were told that the American negotiators no longer have a mandate to negotiate, and then it remains to be seen whether it will be possible to get the two agreements out of the freezer before they are fully frozen. EFTA is struggling with the progress of negotiations with key Asian countries, such as India, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia, and there is uncertainty as to whether we succeed in negotiating the update of an older agreement with Canada. I hope next year's report can bring better news. In addition, we have brexit that also creates challenges for us. It is both that the British are going to negotiate out of the entire internal market – including the EEA part of the internal market – under what conditions it is going to take place, and how we can ensure good trade relations with one of our main trading partners in the future. There are exciting times in trade policy. I therefore think that this annual report should not be annexed to the protocol without any words on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e544	It is so rare for us from our committee to have debate in the big room, so I think we should make the most of it when we first have that kind of debate. I'm in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and I was in Turkey recently – I think there were people coming home tonight; I came home last night – and it was very useful. Especially now it is important to have contact with fellow Members of Parliament in NATO, and not least with Turkey, who have a very different view of the world than most other NATO countries have. They also use methods other than what would be natural for the rest of NATO, and they see other potential threats and enemies than the NATO country most sees. I also believe that developments in Iraq and Syria, and the fight against IS, could have consequences for Turkey in relation to NATO – that has already been achieved. It is also important that we talk about both Turkish colleagues and, not least, American colleagues and other colleagues who are part of this conflict in which we are all in, right now. Then I have a comment for the representative of the Central Party. It is in the setting that the representative wants to achieve the 2 pst. goal. That's a positive goal, and that's something we all really have ambitions about. Then there are some areas to be given priority over others in the budget. Of course, the desire of the Americans for us to reach 2 pst. must be taken seriously, but one must also take seriously the American's self-interest in defence cooperation, among other things. Norway, of which they have a great advantage, and which we debated instead. Not least, it must also be taken into account that the Americans have global interests that make much of their defence budget go not to defend NATO but to commit themselves to the entire planet. That being said, the goal in Wales was ‘aim two’. So it's not a decision to reach 2 pst., but a “aim two” – to reach the 2 pst. goal in ten years. But I look forward to the alternative state budget from the Center Party, because when the Center Party says we're going to get to 2 pst, they have to add 17 billion. kr on what is now available and it will be interesting to see whether they take it from other areas of the budget or whether they want to take it from the State pension fund. There are no other alternatives if the centre lot is to follow its own comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e553	I also want to associate a few words with the NATO delegation and what's moving there. At the annual meeting we just got back from, in Turkey, we had as usual a strong and good sequence of briefings from the Secretary-General and a full questioning round afterwards. What's left in both questions and answers from the Secretary-General is the 2pst goal, and that NATO countries other than the United States are also dealing with a better burden-sharing. That's right, but I still want to point out that the debate often points out that the United States covers 70 pst. by the costs of NATO. That's not right. What's right is that the U.S. has defense budgets of 70 pst. higher than the other countries, and there is an important difference. The United States is a world power that has the ambition to engage in conflicts around the world. In Norway, as a small NATO country, we are limited to having our defence and, of course, to participating in the alliance's obligations, and there are two very different things. Then I also have to note another relationship, which is often hanging again a little without comment. In particular, the warnings issued by the now-elected President of the United States, as a reminder of the obligations laid down in Article 5 of the Treaty. Now, Article 5 has been triggered only once throughout the alliance, and that's when the United States asked for the support of the alliance after the 9/11 events and Afghanistan. We put it on, but there are many European countries that have suffered great losses and have not got their young men back home. I think it is an important nuance of this picture, and I think we should also announce that in a debate like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e560	Just coming home from the NATO PA meeting in Istanbul tonight, as pointed out, it may be in place to link some comments to the Central Party's comment on this topic. The Central Party has made a note in the vote referring to the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in The Hague and Stavanger. Here was the follow-up to the declaration from the Wales Summit and the 2nd PLC goal at the agenda, which it also did at the meeting in Turkey, especially at the final meeting yesterday. The Central Party is satisfied that our Prime Minister and the Government with the Right and the Progress Party during the meeting in Wales are committing Norway to NATO's common objectives. It is surprising, therefore, that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is now taking down the significance of both the decision and their own national decisions on the same matter, which he has raised very high after their national meeting. The representative also likes to say what power the Land Meeting of the Progress Party and the National Government Meeting have into the government. The central party was the first party in Norway to take the 2nd pst. goal, which was followed up by both the Progress Party and the Right. Unfortunately, they do not follow these country meetings in the long-term plan they presented in ours. As the Central Party points out in its comment, there has been evidence of a mismatch between the security challenges we see today and the reduced defence budgets before NATO countries. As NATO's Secretary-General made clear in his statement: when, at times, security challenges are so great and their defence budgets are being reduced, there must be a willingness to increase them at times with growing security challenges. The NATO target of 2 pst. is not something we can put parentheses around, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde did in his post. NATO's Secretary-General was on the clock. As NRK also reported, he made it clear that his most important task is to get the member countries to use more than 2 pst. of its gross domestic product on defence. And then a harebler can say that Greece has already achieved it very quickly by having a gross domestic product that has gone down dramatically, but it's going to be a little bit less serious. The security policy image is changing rapidly. Few had seen a year ago that the United States would get a president to say that one must consider whether one is going to defend NATO countries, cf. Article 5, if those countries do not comply with their financial obligations. Last week, the Centre Party presented its alternative budget for 2017, so the representative Tybring-Gjedde may have seen what the Centre Party is doing there. There we propose to increase the Army's budget by 1 billion. NOK 300 million and the World Health Organization. kr. We believe that there is room for starting investments, completely necessary capacities both in the Army and the Home Office, and to start the escalating process that is needed to achieve the 2 pst. goal. Neither the Center Party nor anyone else has said that it will happen overnight. We need to meet the commitments made to NATO by the Prime Minister and the Government on behalf of all of us. The representative Hansen said that the trade agreements TTIP and TiSA are now in the freezer box. These trade agreements have high levels of resistance in very many countries. Many feel that power is being moved from their people elected into closed operating rooms. Many people experience that trade agreements that were previously meant to bring down customs walls, now debt the way we govern our internal policies in each country. There may be regulations, there may be regulations related to the environment, workers’ rights and health – how, as politicians, our citizens will be able to take care of our environment, health, working life and other things. That such agreements are made in the freezer box, I can understand that the representative Hansen, with his eagerness to implement them, is tired of doing so. Others of us will think that we hope that the freezer will be locked, and that the key will be very hard to find again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e579	The representative from the Central Party spoke about not doing anything overnight when it comes to the 2 pst. goal. That's not what the comment says, because the Central Party expects the government to follow up. So I don't know what she expects, that the government should sit for ten to twenty years – like for me – but that must be what it actually says. It is a little unclear that you use comments that are not in line with what the representative wants to say. It's not hard, and we have time to make comments. You better make notes that are in line with what the representative actually says from the pulpit. It's clear that the Progress Party also has ambitions to reach the 2nd pst. goal, but we don't want to fix it the way I'm going to assume that the Central Party representative will do, probably faster than the 10 years that are the goal of the Wales meeting. Then I would like to add that, in the context of the long-term plan that we have adopted, the Progress Party put forward a proposal, which was not endorsed by anyone, that we want to establish an investment fund for defence equipment acquisitions. It was delivered to everyone who discussed the LTP, and no one joined. 100 B.C.E. kr deducted from the State pension fund – a return is taken as it should initially be, i.e. 4 pst. – say we don't get 4 pst, but we get 3 – it would be 3 billion. kr more every year for ten years in the future, 30 billion. kr. Then we had reached over 200 billion. Total NOK Then we had not reached 2 pst. But we had been close to 2 pst. And we had come far higher than the defense chief recommended in his professional-military advice. This was possible to join. We've done it in transport, we could have done it in investment funds for defence equipment acquisitions. The Progress Party will continue to promote this until it gets a majority in the UK, because I am convinced that most people will understand that it is smart to do so in terms of infrastructure and what we need to do in order to continue operating Norway, instead of doing as today, how much of the State pension fund's returns go to different welfare benefits rather than concrete what is absolutely necessary and which the whole Storting wants to be implemented. It is the policy of the Progress Party, and I represent the Progress Party in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e588	It was a wonderful article. The government has submitted the long-term plan. The government is in charge of Norway. The party of progress is part of the government, and what the representative Tybring-Gjedde says, one must expect to be part of the government's policy. One cannot be both in government and outside government at the same time, even if the Progress Party makes it as if one could – and for some reason escape it, even from the media and others. It's an art that very few other parties have done well. I myself sat in the government for eight years, and the times that one tried such art, was a quick set of walls. Therefore, it is natural to ask the government to follow up what the government itself has bound to Norway. Of course it is, for this long-term plan will last for twenty years. In that context, one should expect the government to follow up. Yes, I'm sure the progress party has proposed a lot. The Progress Party is part of a multi-talented alliance in the Long-Term Plan. The centre party is not on it. We cannot accept what has been proposed in the internal forum, but I can decide what will be done in this room. Should the Progress Party come in opposition when the next long-term plan is presented, I'm sure we'll get a lot of suggestions that were now quite absent. It becomes a little unprofessional when you refer to closed processes and not to what appeared in this room, and what could be voiced over here, because this is where it is decided. Maybe it could even be multiples -- what do I know. So this I think is a little strange, because as I said, the party of progress is in government. If it's true that a government doesn't have a say in what it stands for, well, then you should consider whether you're going to sit in that government. But there is something that neither I nor anyone here in Stortinget and in the opposition should consider. You're going to have to figure it out yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e599	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, said that I was so eager to place TTIP and TiSA. In the case of TTIP, I never, I think, expressed some eagerness to get it in place. It is a relationship between the European Union and the United States, and I think I have always said that I do not believe in that agreement until I see it. Although analyses show that it might have been good for the European and American economy, and thus indirectly for the Norwegian economy, we are at least avoiding some dilemmas in how we should deal with it. But the TiSA agreement I think would have been an advantage for Norwegian service exports to get in place. So it remains to be seen. Then Navarsete is quite right that new trade agreements are less and less about customs, because it's getting away, and it's more and more about legislation. And then the question is, is it positive or negative? We are doing considerable assistance to lift poor countries economically and standardly. There's a broad consensus here in the hall. Trade agreements may be the same instrument. There is, of course, a limit on how much to limit the scope of action, but there is no doubt that, over the 20 years we have had the EEA Agreement, there has been a common regulatory framework in Europe that has raised standards in many areas, not least in Eastern Europe. Environmental standards, HMS standards – wherever you travel across Europe now and see construction works, the same safety rules apply, the same requirements for scaffolds, protective equipment, etc. I think that the Central Party too is a good thing, but it limits our national freedom of action – it does. So one-sided to say that any agreement that makes rules and standards is negative – I'm not sure if the Center Party really means that. Although national states are important, it is necessary for countries to agree on a number of things, and if I remember correctly, Norway has over 1,000 international agreements, which in different ways restrict what we can do here in this Chamber. But I think it's for the best, both for us and for other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e606	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e611	To the representative of Navarsete: the investment fund was already well known, so I could assume that you were in the negotiations. So it's like I'm not in government. I have actually been chosen by my constituents on the Party Program of the Advance Party. In the big group of the Progress Party, we make decisions, and the decisions we make there are those I represent outside, and if that's weird, you should look a little bit closer to the Constitution. I actually have a job to do, that's to represent the Progress Party. Who else would represent the Progress Party in this Chamber, if not the representatives of the Progress Party? It's important for me to stress it. We can go back to other representatives from the Progress Party who have been sitting in this Chamber and subsequently came to government – and who are, of course, bound by the government's adopted policy. There's nothing strange about that. What's strange is that the representative Navarsete is comparing himself to the situation I'm in. When Navarsete was in government, she couldn't have a Central Party policy, because then she has compromised in government. I have not compromised in government. I represent the Advance Party, and I have to find myself in what the government does – against my will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e621	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e637	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e646	This is a matter we have annually in this Chamber, and it is often expressed a great deal of agreement on Norway's role in the UN and the role of the United Nations in the world community. It is important to deal with such messages in the Storting although the government's prerogative is precisely to pursue foreign policy and the apparent consensus in the handling of these messages is strong. But it is not that a great deal of consensus makes policy uninteresting. The message is one of several reasons why the Stortinge has to provide guidance signals and often important input to the active UN policy of the current government. There is a good Norwegian tradition of agreeing on the major lines of foreign policy, including to the many bodies of the United Nations. This time, too, there are recordings from parties other than the unanimous committee comments, which also form the basis for the overall view expressed by the Storting. That's what the setting shows. The agenda of the Security Council in the autumn of 2015 was marked by the fact that the conflicts in, among others, Syria and Libya had deteriorated. The situation in eastern Ukraine was locked down. In Yemen, the humanitarian crisis was growing. The level of violence was high in Israel and Palestine. The peace process in the South Sudan failed, and Burundi evolved in a negative direction. The Security Council was still characterised by the cool relationship between Russia and Western countries. The scale of asylum and migration challenges and the dramatic humanitarian consequences of high-level refugees were also part of the challenging foreign and security policy situation. Nevertheless, the Security Council was able to agree on important areas, such as measures to prevent violent extremism, take action against foreign fighters and fight against terrorist organisations such as ISIL. There was agreement on examining the use of chemical weapons in Syria and the follow-up to UN peace operations, and the resolution on a political roadmap for resolving the conflict in Syria was an important decision. In the autumn of 2015, it was 15 years since UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security was adopted. Norway shall take the lead in strengthening women’s rights internationally. Women are particularly hard hit in war and conflict, and women's rights are often among the first to be set aside. The Government’s action plan for women, peace and security is an important part of Norway’s security and foreign policy. The new sustainability targets are a milestone for the UN, the world and Norway. The 17 sustainability goals, with 169 targets, are ambitious and necessary for our common future. They constitute a common work plan to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and stop climate change by 2030. Norway has an important role to play in the follow-up to Prime Minister Solberg as head of the United Nations Advisory Group on Sustainable Development Goals. Education for all is an important prerequisite for real participation in a democracy. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, it is necessary to step up efforts in this area in order to strengthen women's civil and political participation. That is why this is a main priority for the Solberg government, with the Prime Minister himself at the head. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a full democracy, nor exploit its full potential for growth and development. The high-level week gave a political boost to the process of the successful Paris climate summit in December, and 187 countries had notified national climate targets when the Paris agreement was concluded. These successes strengthened the UN as the global arena of common solutions, in particular with regard to environmental and development challenges. With the serious challenges now facing the world, there is a need for a strong and effective UN. The UN and the multilateral order we know are under pressure. Norway’s prosperity, clean relations with its neighbours and common interests with the vast majority of other countries are based on UN principles. International law, international law and the law of the sea are important pillars of our UN work. Norway has worked to improve the functioning of the UN and to be a more efficient and modern organisation, in particular through the project «FN70: A new agenda» launched by Norway. The aim is to influence and support the next UN Secretary-General in strengthening the organisation. Early efforts and peace building focusing on security factors, reform and the development of the rule of law are important as a core task for the UN peacekeeping forces. Democracy and respect for human rights are important in themselves, but they also provide the basis for societies where personal initiative can generate growth and progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e674	The UN was founded in June 1945 with the smoking ruins of World War II as a backstop. The goal was a world organization to prevent and prevent wars between nations. But before the UN Charter was signed on 24 October of the same year, peace had broken. August 6th and August 9th the first two fell, and fortunately the only ones so far, the atomic bombs. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were crushed. During all the 70 years that have passed, nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation have been important issues for the UN and have been dealt with in the 1st Committee during the General Assembly every harvest – as well in 2015, and for that matter, this year. It is important that the government in the disarmament process continues to relate to both the broad compromise in the Grand Duchy and the majority comments in the Inst. 199 S for 2016–2016 relating to the Communication on Global Security Challenges in Foreign Policy, Message. Number 37 for 2014-2015, also in the future. The notification gives a good description of the work in the UN in the autumn of 2015. I may nevertheless be missing in all the annual reports we receive, a reference to the political processes and to the dynamics that characterise the general assemblies and the major political contradictions that are currently found in several UN bodies. It's e.g. it is not unproblematic that human rights work is dominated by countries that do not make themselves known to the Declaration on Human Rights. Nor is it unproblematic that women’s and minorities’ rights are not recognised by a large number of the world’s nations. The more important it is – praise to Norway! – was that Norway had women’s rights as a priority area in the autumn of 2015. Then, as the rapporteur also said, 15 years ago Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was adopted. The resolution underlines, inter alia: the inclusion of the gender perspective in the work on peace and security in a transversal way. Norway has underlined the need for women to participate in peace mediation, in peace processes and in peace operations. Let me add that women must be involved in building peace, and when communities are to develop after a war or a conflict. In addition to Action Plans for Security Resolutions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also presented a new action plan on women's rights and equality in foreign and development policy in autumn. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should be commended for that. This is not a message about UN sub-organisations. Nevertheless, let me commend the efforts of all the UN workers in the aid organisations, UNICEF, the United Nations Development Programme and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Many of us have seen them in the field. They are often where others do not. The first time it really hit me was when I was in Pakistan in the spring of 2001 – it's starting to be a long time ago – but it was before September 11, 2001. Afghanistan was run by the Taliban, and in border areas against Afghanistan there were large refugee camps with women and children. The UN organisations were the only international organisations there, and they didn't have enough money and equipment. Since then, I have often seen the humanitarian work of the United Nations as something that really stands for it. A unanimous committee notes that with the serious challenges now facing the world, there is a need for a strong and effective UN. It is, as the Committee also writes, about the multilateral world order that we know. Norway is committed to ensuring international law, international law and maritime law, or Law of the Sea, as a guide to international cooperation. Finally, the UN is what the Member States make up the organisation — for good and for bad. It might be nice to remember. But the most important international organization we have, it's actually the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e693	Since the United Nations Charter was signed in 1945, the Centre Party has actively supported the work of the United Nations and has seen the United Nations as the most important international organisation in many areas. The UN is not flawed and missing, but as was said in previous articles: the UN is the best we have. It is also important in the future that Norway supports the development of the UN to be even better – even more effective in reaching the goals set. In this setting, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Centre Party has chosen, in a note, to point in particular to the UN's number two target of sustainability, which says that by 2030 the world is to "extinguish sulphur, achieve food security and better nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture". We point out that Norway needs to use more resources to provide more people with access to safe food. This requires a focus on food production both nationally and globally. The centre party of Norway must think about the long term of aid policy. Aid policy means that we must make sure that all people are given the most basic needs first. It is important that we facilitate sustainable development both ecologically and economically. Climate change makes this more challenging, and we know that large food-producing areas may be decommissioned because of Turks and flooding and because of the changing climate. About one in three people in sub-Saharan Africa are today defined as undernourished. One reduces food production, there is little room for expanding agricultural land, there is uncertainty about world market prices, and one has to strengthen the potential of each country to feed its own inhabitants. This also needs to be more busy in this room. It is for the vote that there are so few people in the staging room who are concerned with bearing force target number two. A discussion that has taken place in the autumn – both in the media, in the public and otherwise in the political environment – is the discussion of Norway's participation in negotiations on a legally binding framework aimed at banning nuclear weapons, anchored in Resolution L.41, to which a majority of the 1st Committee of the United Nations General Assembly joined. It is important that the Council of State in its statement looks closely at Norway's approach to this matter. The majority has previously stated that, during the discussion in the 1st Committee in 2016, Norway would stick to the compromise reached by the Stortinges and the comments made by the majority in the Innst. 199 S for 2015–2016 on global security challenges in foreign policy. There are shared views about the Norwegian Governments and the Norwegian delegation have just done this. I believe that it is important both for the public debate and not least for the cause that the Council of State makes it clear to us today. Norway must be a driver of nuclear disarmament even in times of insecurity around us – when security increases, when more people feel that there are forces that drag us in a direction that is not to peace but to dissatisfaction, and where dissatisfaction lies in much of our vicinity. I will record the comment from the Right and the Advance Party that if you are going to be a member of NATO, you can't choose to say no to the nuclear weapon. I think one must have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The central part of Norway is going to be faced with the commitments we have with other NATO countries, but we also have to do everything we can to get rid of nuclear weapons in an increasingly troubled value.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e706	Of a series of very central international issues that are discussed in connection with the UN each fall, I still need to use my post for what is unsavory – SV has a proposal on it in this setting – simply nuclear disarmament. The humanitarian initiative taken by Norway under the previous government and started up with some other countries a few years ago has made considerable progress over the last few years and now has led to a whole mess in the United Nations. A large majority in the General Assembly supported Resolution L.41 on the launch of negotiations for a legally binding framework or a ban on nuclear weapons. It's important, it's the biggest disarmament advance in the nuclear field since the 1990s – where it's been very quiet. It's important because nuclear weapons today are a major global problem, unlike what many believe. A person who thinks it sounds very much out in the 1980s, but it's probably a bigger real challenge today, among other things. Because several countries have nuclear weapons, and because the risk of spreading is significantly greater. We have banned chemical and biological weapons, but not the most dangerous weapons of mass destruction: nuclear weapons. It is also necessary to have a code or set of norms before you can get total disarmament. There is almost no way to remove a weapon altogether without a first framework and a set of norms that contribute to it. It is also quite unambiguously explained, and written by a number in the Stortinget setting, that it is not in any way contrary to Norway’s NATO obligations to participate in work for such a framework – as it will now be set in motion. Norway voted against the proposal at the General Assembly. However, there is nothing to prevent us from participating in the negotiations on it now. The left and SV have put forward proposals on this, and I take that up. Since then, the Foreign Minister has made it clear in reply to a written question from Stortinget that the government does not intend to participate in those negotiations. I think it's unfortunate. Firstly, there will be a very central process in the United Nations over the years to come. Norway could be a very important driver and played a central role, as we have often done in disarmament work internationally. There wouldn't be any kind of binding to what we would eventually do with a final result. We would only have our participants in a process in which a significant majority in the United Nations Member State will participate. I note that the minority comment from the Right and the Progress Party in the vote that says that voting for it would be contrary to the decision of the Storting is not a matter for the Foreign Minister. After going through both the setting and what is agreed in the United Nations, there is no basis for saying that they are in conflict with each other, and secondly because a multiple has given such a clear direction. It's a minority that claims that view. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Labour Party to take the floor and say something about its vision in this matter. When I take up the role of the Workers' Party in particular, it's because it's historically been a broad agreement in Norway on the long lines of foreign and security policy. However, it has also been a major problem of important disarmament road choices, where the Labour Party has held a more active line and has contributed significantly both to Norwegian disarmament policy, deployment and not least to the driving role that Norway has had in international disarmament negotiations, most recently in the fight against landmines and class weapons over the last decade. In this setting, we will not be able to read anything about what the Working Party has done about this in the future. On the contrary, there is now a picture of SV and the centre party being united in some of these things: we do it here, we saw it earlier today in the matter of arms exports, and we saw it in the matter of the defence's long-term plan. What I can imagine asking the Labour Party to say a few words about now is: Do we want to see a change in policy in any field when it comes to disarmament and nuclear weapons if the Labour Party is to have government power, or they want to continue this policy, for example. by not participating in negotiations on nuclear weapons, if they were to win the election next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e721	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e726	The UN is both an actor and an arena to promote common global solutions. In the face of a more demanding foreign policy situation, there is a great need for both of these key functions of the UN: as an actor on the ground, to operate refugee camps in Jordan, to provide long-term development assistance in Malawi and to provide emergency assistance in Yemen; as an arena where all UN member countries gather to try to find global solutions Although the foreign and security policy situation has become more demanding in recent years, we must not forget that we have also achieved some diplomatic breakthroughs in the same period – adoption of the universal sustainability objectives, agreement on financing for development and not least a global climate agreement that has now entered into force. It turns out that even in a more turbulent world, laborious diplomatic work can lead. We need more and more such diplomatic breakthroughs. We also need a more effective UN as an actor at country level. We need to strengthen the UN's ability to meet the major challenges facing the world. Norway was the initiator of the project ‘FN70: A new agenda’, also referred to by some of its representatives. Together with a two-regional group, we have agreed on a number of recommendations to the next UN Secretary-General, António Guterres. We also had the opportunity to present this to Guterres a few weeks ago. The project is a good example of the value of cooperation across traditional and regional groupings of the UN. We are now discussing how we can take this important work further. In the work on peace and security, Norway is working to strengthen the United Nations' ability to prevent and operate peace. Through our driving role for women, peace and security, we are involved in setting the agenda for women's participation in peace and security processes, including in the face of violent extremism. For us, this is very important in the process that has been in Colombia and in the implementation of the peace agreement in Colombia. The same is true in the new work now being carried out by Norway in the Philippines in connection with the Communist movement and the government of the Philippines — a conflict that has been going on for nearly 50 years. Norway also plays an active role in improving the effectiveness of United Nations development activities. We are working for enhanced coordination and coordinated action between the different parts of the United Nations system at country level. Today’s papers sum up and assess Norway’s participation in the 70th UN General Assembly. That's the theme. The purpose of this annual Communication is to keep the Stortinget and the public informed about Norwegian policies and priorities in the UN. With regard to the issue of nuclear disarmament, there is no doubt that the government has placed great emphasis on implementing and complying with the decision taken by the Stortinget. We have taken many initiatives, including in recent months, and we have received a very important so-called verification resolution in the UN Main Assembly — an initiative taken by Norway together with the United Kingdom. If you're going to get real nuclear disarmament, we're totally dependent on proving that those nuclear weapons and weapons are actually being removed. This is a work that was started by the Stoltenberg II government, and which we have now managed to achieve – an important initiative. Of course, we are also continuing the important initiative initiated by the previous government, that of humanitarian disarmament – that of finding that nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons cannot distinguish between civilians and fighters, and that awareness of this needs to be increased. Of course, we also share, as a basis for this work, the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons. That's one of the most important goals you can work with. A number of important developments have also been identified in the Storting’s decision to work long-term for a legally binding framework based on balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, there was a very polarized discussion in the UN this fall, and it was agreed to start negotiations on a ban as soon as possible – as soon as possible – without the nuclear powers involved. I cannot see that there was any basis for Norway to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e766	In the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee for Notification. St. 37 for 2014-2015 is a broad compromise, just mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on a legally binding framework for which long-term work is being done. It is also a majority comment that, among other things: The Workers' Party is involved, which makes it clearer that the objective is a ban on nuclear weapons. In the first committee this autumn there was a resolution just mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which Norway voted against. Of course, one could have voted withholding, but Norway chose to vote against, and that concluded, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, with a ban. No matter what Norway voted, will Norway still go to the United Nations and participate in the UN negotiations on a ban based on what the United Nations decision we have after all?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e773	First, I would like to stress again what I said, that we have put great emphasis on trying to get solutions both now in the summer and in the autumn linked to following up the intentions of the Stortinge decision. Norway has been a driver and received through that verification resolution. We also looked at other possibilities in connection with the UN's efforts to reach a resolution that was even more in line with the Storting decision – the representative is also aware of this – which unfortunately we did not succeed. What was adopted at the UN General Assembly was to start negotiations on bans now, as soon as possible, in the new year. This was a resolution that no NATO country, with the exception of the Netherlands, voted in favour, i.e. all NATO countries voted no, with the exception of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e781	Whether there is a ban now or later in such a resolution, regardless of whether Norway voted against, is it not unnecessary to stay away from a assembly, from negotiations in the UN which are actually going to discuss the nuclear issue based on a decision banning nuclear weapons in the 1st Committee? Does it not deter Norway from being involved in this matter? I guess it's hardly someone who thinks you're coming together, and then you're going to pass this ban, and then you're done with it. This is going to be long negotiations, I think, in the assembly that is now meeting to discuss this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e786	What is regrettable is that the important work started under the previous government, with the humanitarian initiative, which was not a polarising initiative, but which was widespread, has unfortunately not been followed up. The debate we experienced in the autumn was very divisive. They did not try to reach agreement on the further work. The negotiations to be started shall be based on: «Calls upon states participating in the conference to make their best endaves to conclude as soon as possible a legally-binding instrument». Those who are to participate in these negotiations will undertake to work for a ban as soon as possible. The size has suggested another sequence there, so it will be very demanding for NATO countries to be able to participate in that kind of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e796	For many of us, it is disappointing that Norway does not sit around the table when negotiating on such an important issue as the ban on nuclear weapons. It may also be a little difficult to comply with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that the wording ‘as quickly as possible’ should be what can keep Norway from participating. Everyone knows that such negotiations will take time. My question relates to the comment from the Right and the Advance Party. The members point out that the Resolution ‘Taking forward multilateral nuclear disarmament negotiations’ is not in line with the Storting decision. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreeing on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e803	At the UN General Assembly, a total of NATO – all NATO countries with the exception of the Netherlands – voted against this resolution. It's because it's made very clear in NATO's strategic concept that you can't be in a situation where NATO doesn't have nuclear weapons, if others have nuclear weapons. Entering into negotiations now as soon as possible to impose a ban on something that is part of NATO's concept is very demanding. That is why Storting’s decision is so constructive, because it says that we should work for a legally binding framework in the long term, on the basis of a balanced – first, one must start to equip – mutual, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons. The problem now is that we're experiencing some rusting up on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e812	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, when a block – if one can call the alliance in NATO for it – will not take this and report in terms of its appearance, with the exception of the Netherlands, other parties will do the same. The Foreign Minister must see that there is a development that leads us in the wrong direction. We also see a development in some countries where it is not democracy and the governance of these weapons that we should love. This means that our whole everyday life is so risky that someone can use these weapons, without the democratic decisions. My question is again: what does the Foreign Minister do when he cannot answer for this? What does he do in a concrete way to get on with what is decided on for the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e821	First of all, we got through the verification resolution, which we've been working on for many years. It was a Norwegian initiative, where we also got with the United Kingdom. In addition, I have taken an initiative to try to get a resolution that could embrace much wider than the resolution put on the table, which was polarizing. Unfortunately, it did not appear possible to bring together a majority for a resolution that was clearer in the direction of the adoption of the Storting, where the long-term objective of balanced and irreversible disarmament was an important part of it. We must now look forward to continuing our commitment, where it is clear that we want to implement a policy that over time involves the abolition of nuclear weapons, based on the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e830	I now hear that the Foreign Minister argues along the lines expressed by the minority in the Storting that there would be a violation of the Storting decision. But there is no concrete basis for it. Nowhere in the Storting Preferences, either from the majority or from a collective committee, says that one should not work as quickly as possible. Besides, in international politics, 'as fast as possible' doesn't mean the same thing as the 'as fast as possible' that I say to my son when he wants to clear the room. It means 'as fast as possible at all' - 'possible' probably means ten years ahead. It's an expression that has ambitions. Thirdly, Sequencing does not stand – first all disarmament, all weapons gone. It says ‘reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable disposal’, i.e. that there is to be verification and disposal, and on the basis of that, there is to be another, simply work for a prohibition. Norway could be a bridge builder between NATO countries and other countries – just not among the polarising countries – but has chosen to be polarising. Why won't the Foreign Minister take part in the room and try to be a brewer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e837	This seems to me to be falling on its own unfairness, and I'm a little surprised that these claims are coming. What about giving a little recognition at least that we got through the verification resolution? What about a little bit of recognition that we're up against the NATO summit working along the lines that the Storting has adopted? What about giving a little recognition that we were trying to take an initiative for a more balanced resolution, which could potentially also have caught up with the NATO countries, which obviously must be in line with NATO's nuclear strategy? I understand that SV doesn't think there is any problem that it would have created a big problem for us in NATO to vote yes or vote abstinence to this resolution, in a security policy situation that is much more difficult. I had to make a total assessment of this. My assessment was that the resolution that was up was too far away from what was the decision of the Storting, and the government chose to stand with the other NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e844	I have given that recognition both publicly and directly to the Minister of Foreign Affairs – I would like to do it again here. I thought it was a wise and good decision on verification, but it does not remove the problems with this. I would like to reiterate to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What about not trying to justify that it would be contrary to the Storting decision, when it is so clear that it does not say that it should not happen quickly, or that there should not be a sequencing, where something must be completely done before anything else can begin? What I took up, however, was an attempt to put it behind us and say: What now, we voted against, finished it, but can we not still be in the same room as other countries, exerting influence on how Norwegian foreign policy line – from SV to the Progress Party – has been for decades, that we are at least trying to influence what could be an international framework? My point is, we could be a bridge builder, one who understands NATO's needs because we're a member, while at the same time we have the commitment and the willingness to go in a direction that other countries have. I repeat, can't we be in the room and be a bridge builder?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e853	We were, in fact, a bridge builder in the process that was going on this summer, both until the NATO summit, in the work on the verification resolution, to confirm that disarmament actually took place, and also in the initiative that I took vis-a-vis other countries, in order to try to obtain a resolution that did not assume that we were going to start a process early next year, as quickly as possible – without mentioning any of the conditions on which the Storting had to be ‘balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable’. Where in the resolution adopted does the representative Solhjell see it? It does not say – the premises that were the basis for the Storting decision were not reflected. That's why the government tried to promote a resolution that took it in, but that was clear that vision is a nuclear-weapon-free world. Unfortunately, some of the countries that wanted a polarised debate went directly against this and said no, we are going to promote it, with a ban as soon as possible — no matter what Norway does. There I tried to be a bridge builder – unfortunately I did not get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e860	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e868	Let me start by giving honor to the representative Marit Nybakk for something she said in her post, namely that the best decisions are made when both sexes are represented. I fully share that. I think a nation where one sex has monopoly of power is a bad starting point. I belong to a party that has female leadership – it works fine, so I fully support it. Then there has been a discussion about the UN and the role and opportunities of the United Nations. Some say that the UN is the best we have, there are others who say that the UN is the least bad we have. If you move on, you could ask questions about whether it would be possible to establish the United Nations today. I think that would have been extremely challenging. I think one of the main challenges for the United Nations is to make yourself important in a global picture and a global picture. If the United Nations cannot contribute to good solutions in which the majority of Member States stand behind and see reason, then the major countries will find other solutions. The UN is extremely important for small nations. Large nations are able to find other solutions where they see it as useful. Therefore, it is important for Norway and other small countries to have an active UN that does its job and operates in the right direction, with assistance, with peace – undoubtedly important. But once again you have to show that you're able to hit the points you want to achieve. If you want legitimacy for your own people, you have to hit those points. You have to show that you can fight the alleged UN bureaucracy. One has to show that one is able to achieve results in a targeted way. If not, it will be difficult to hear for a further incentive and a large proportion of the funds used. So two words about the proposal of the Left and the Left Party. The Progress Party will oppose the minority proposal. In a non-profit world, we would have supported it, too, of course, but we feel that we are actually not living in a non-profit world and ideal time. So it's not like peace is going on; on the contrary, we do see bigger challenges than we wanted. It is this way, as others have pointed out in the debate until now, that some of the countries with nuclear weapons are not particularly well-known for democratic regulations — perhaps on the contrary. If you go on with a reduction, it will primarily lead to democratic countries dealing with it, while those who may worry us the most will not care about it. So you want to distort a balance of power. It is a risk sport the Progress Party will warn against most strongly. In addition, it is true, as the Foreign Minister himself was concerned, that as long as NATO has the position you have, this is not the way to go. If you're going to turn around, there must be a parallelism in what you do in NATO, and what you might do for disarmament. You are not there at present, because you see that it is necessary to maintain the regime, because it is part of the overall safety assessment that Norway sees itself as a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e879	I took the floor to comment on what is being said against our comment on the comment from the majority and especially the Left and SV. It's the way that this is made improperly. This is because the decision taken by a unanimous increase in April refers to the balanced disarmament and approach to this which will take place. That's what's the difference between these two proposals in the United Nations – so that's what they say. Then I have to say, of course, it's not because someone is more or less opposed to nuclear weapons in this room, that we have this debate. I understand that we are the ones who are loyal to NATO's strategic concept, which defends it. And we do that because we think it's related to great uncertainty for Norway not being able to defend NATO's strategic concept. Some of us came home tonight from the annual meeting in NATO in Turkey, where our Secretary-General on several occasions took up the deterrence dimension of NATO and NATO countries. Of course, an important part of NATO's deterrence dimension is nuclear weapons. That's what we have to relate to, whether we like it or not. Then I must say, from this pulpit, that when representatives from the Labour Party and the Central Party are so careful about this issue here today, both of these parties have representatives in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Over the three or four years I have been in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I have never heard representatives from either the Centre Party or the Labour Party try to address this issue in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I think that's a good reason, because then Norway would be discredited, and they know that. That's where such questions have to start if there's any point in getting NATO to join in on such a question. Norway, as it is not known, has nuclear weapons. We should have agreed on that pretty soon in this room. It is the nuclear weapons of the NATO countries that we are discussing, and that is the balance of the nuclear issue. There is no NATO country that participated in this UN decision, and that is what we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e888	I will not go into what has been debated in the past. In the last two cases, the Left has felt well cared for by Solhell's articles. But that's a small observation, and I think it's really interesting also from the big picture and the big debates we have in Europe right now. We have two Western democracies struggling with the confidence of their people, that's Britain and what we've seen in the United States lately. The similarity between the two is that they have a two-party system. This means that there are few channels of frustration and other thoughts and also that more extreme thoughts are brought into the public debate in a structured way. In all these two party systems, there are two major parties that agree on everything that is, as it were, the big, basic things. For example, in Norway today we have: a large population against the expansion of the Lofoten and the West Pole. The right and the Working Party are in favour. We see the same thing when it comes to e.g. fur animals, or in the case of disarmament. There are often the small parties that actually have the population behind them. The interesting thing here is that when the Right is in the game and explains why they stand for what they stand for, the Workers' Party is still. And when the Workers' Party is in the game, the Right is completely silent. And when Bård Vegar Solhjell challenges the Workers' Party whether there is any difference between the Workers' Party and the Right in this part of the policy, they leave the answer. That's what we see, over and over again, that the big parties agree on such things that go clearly across the people's will out there. And when one is in the game, the other remains calm. So I think it's a little striking that the Workers' Party chooses not to answer the challenge from Bård Vegar Soljell if there's really any difference between the Right and the Workers' Party. Is it that if there's a new government, there's going to be a big change at this point? I don't feel completely safe, because that's one of the areas where we see that the big parties go together against what most people actually think. This might show how important it is to have a partisan flora in this house, which dares to say also what may be against some of the crowds, adopted agreements. I think it's good that those debates are actually here, but I think it's a striking and good example of when the other great one goes under the radar because it's someone who's been chosen to stand in the war this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e899	We live in a democracy, fortunately. We have a party structure in Norway that allows us to have small parties and large parties. Of course, we should be happy about that. But when the representative from a – at least today – stands here and says that their opinions represent the will of the people, I think it is a cautious exaggeration. Perhaps, in particular, it is on this issue that we are discussing here, namely the sensitive position that is also on NATO issues and security issues outside the population today. I rather believe on the contrary that the relationship that we recognize to have with NATO – to our defence cooperation and alliance – is something that occupies people much more today than it has done before. That's what I call popularism, and that's what characterizes our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e904	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e920	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e936	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e947	There are very many beautiful places in the Kingdom of Norway. Svalbard is definitely one of the most beautiful. And it has its own magic by itself that I think everyone who really experiences Svalbard on proper, will also notice that hangs with them for the rest of their lives. The message provided by the government has some broad lines, and they have shaped Norwegian Svalbard policy for a long time. It is about keeping the strength of Norwegian society on the island group, taking care of the wilderness and nature, respecting the Svalbard Treaty and Norway's responsibility there and enforcing Norwegian sovereignty. There is a lot of agreement on the Size of Main Lines that the government places in the message. There is also broad consensus in the Committee on the challenges facing the Svalbard community. And then, in fact – and that's not often happening, at least not in these days – I want to boast by the government of the job done on the environmental part of the message. The Committee agrees. There is a fairly good balance between better and more active management of the Svalbard nature and the ability to use it in a good way without destroying the values that we are set to manage. Yes, in fact, the left in the comments believes that you should have been even more offensive in, for example. the possibility of building commercial cabs for the exercise of tourism in the area. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that we must also ensure that the Svalbard community continues to be a family society where both children and adults belong. Then it is important to develop new industries on Svalbard, built on the resources we have there, but also built on the opportunities of the Svalbard nature and in the unique location of Svalbard, for example. in relation to research, space research and other parts. The Svalbard community has experienced many tragedies over time, and the last one was the great rage that Longyearbyen experienced. Here it is important to think about preparedness, and the Committee agrees that we need to deal with the new assessments that come around the reports after this crash, in a proper way, and to ensure that the Svalbard community is safe, including with the climate change we see, which will lead to what has usually been safe areas, perhaps not now, and the things that had not been imagined were challenges to the safety of, for example, Longyearbyen residents, now suddenly must be taken seriously in a completely different way. There is also a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Research. For the Left, it's important to raise space research, which we think is going to be one of the keys to developing all the possibilities that lie on Svalbard. However, it is clear that the unique position of UNIS, both geographically and linked to Norwegian institutions, has great potential in the future. There is broad consensus in the Committee that we need to develop several full-time and part-time study places. Norwegian universities really need to know their visit time and make study stays in their courses that are possible at Svalbard. Here's a growth potential that we haven't fully exploited. So there's some disagreement in the committee about this, but a clear majority says that the humanities and social sciences must also be part of what you offer. It is very important to have academia that deepens and becomes specialists in its fields. But to build good professional environments that really help meet the challenges we face, it is also important to have a wide range of professional environments that they are challenged in different ways. This is how we manage to transform society – not just by cultivating specialists in one subject, but by meeting specialists from different subjects and developing new opportunities. One of the major issues that the Committee believes the government may be overly responding to is the supply of energy. The challenge today is that you're left with an old coal power plant that doesn't have a lifetime, and that makes the Svalbard citizens actually have a climate policy footprint that's twice what they have in Saudi Arabia. There's nothing we can live with in Norway that energy supply is so fossil-based. We challenge the government now to start a work where one does not decide one way at the start of the job, but to look at both CO2 capture and storage, cable – all of the opportunities for the Svalbard community – and to have a broad investigation on the energy supply where all possibilities are included from day one. Then the committee has also agreed on the challenges for the animals on Svalbard, and then I mean the animals that are with the humans, and not those that are a challenge for the human beings, as there is. There are very many dogs on Svalbard, there are extremely few cats, but the dogs also need a good supervision and a good animal welfare. It is clear that today's scheme, with only one animal doctor on an entire island group with so many animals, works poorly on animal welfare, and it also works poorly because there should be more people working on animal welfare. It's about one veterinarian's 24-hour watch seven days a week, but it's also about the fact that there can be disagreement about how to take care of the animals in a good way, and several veterinarians in a cooperation would be able to do it better. The Committee agrees. There is some disagreement in both fishing and landing of fish on Svalbard. Here it's clear that the government must start doing a job of clarifying the boundary between what's challenging with the other legislation we're dealing with internationally, and what's actually just going to have to be fixed, that's that you could eat fish at Svalbard when you're at Svalbard. There is also a great deal of disagreement about scheduled flights, but I hope the Center Party can explain it – in my few minutes I can't reach everything. I'm really glad that we're now getting a beer code that allows you to sell and trade beer on Svalbard on the same line as on the mainland. I'm actually very happy that all parties in the committee mean it. I hope it will be a quick and simple arrangement that can be started immediately by the department. What I'm a little sorry that we couldn't get closer to a broad consensus about is the challenges for Great Norwegian and what we're going to use Great Norwegian for the future. If we had managed to reach a broad consensus on that in the committee, I think it would have been good for the Svalbard community, but that debate continues. I think it's important in the future that we discuss the role of Great Norwegian, and that we can get a broad consensus on that. Then I'll just mention two themes that came up after the committee gave its opinion. One applies to the ports. There's been a draft commission on a new port to the Svalbard community in the future. It is clear that the port of Longyearbyen can be a hub for both search and rescue in the area, and there may be many opportunities to develop the business there as well. It can increase the possibilities of cruise, but it also sets great requirements for search and rescue if we're to open up more cruise traffic in the area. I think it is very good in the concept selection investigation that has been submitted to the port of Svalbard, and I hope the government intends to follow it up when discussing the national transport plan. The other thing that has come up is the ambulance plane in Tromsø, which has created a lot of uncertainty about Svalbard. Not having a jet plane in our northern areas that can help quickly when you experience major disasters creates a lot of uncertainty among people at Svalbard. This is an area where you don't have a neighbouring municipality with doctors who can walk to, and where you don't have a neighbouring municipality with other health services that can get to speed. The jet plane located in Tromsø has been an important part of security, which has made people feel safe in the Svalbard community. So SV has submitted two proposals. I understand that there is disagreement here. I am very sorry that they have tabled proposal No. 2, because there is a broad consensus on the energy assessment in the Committee, and I feel that this proposal is undermining the consensus that lies there. I had hoped that they could turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e983	This big message is important for Svalbard, and it is important for Norway. In a difficult time, of course, the big community must stand up for Svalbard. When the main economic activity — which employs most in the island community — has challenges, it is a national responsibility to develop a policy that ensures that Svalbard can continue to be a vital and sustainable society. It is not only because it is important for Svalbard, not only because it alone creates new jobs, but also because it is important for Norway – to underline Norwegian sovereignty and because active involvement in Svalbard gives us new opportunities in research, higher education and travel. There is hardly any place on this earth that is more exciting to visit than Svalbard. The activity of Svalbard gives us priority as a space nation, and we have seen that new projects and ideas are constantly coming to support development – with the potential of fishing and with the potential of Svalbard as a logistics hub. This applies not only to beer, as the rapporteur mentioned, but also to ideas such as: People's College at Svalbard – there is absolutely no decision, but that it would be a unique offer, I'm not in doubt. Svalbard is a more important part of Norway now than before because environmental problems make Svalbard more vulnerable, because the northern regions are more important geopolitical, and because North cooperation becomes important in order to contribute to low voltage. This message cannot be an end to the debate on the further progress of the Svalbard community. The working party wanted a more concrete direction in the message. The Committee setting points in some areas; others the government itself has to work on. In the future to Great Norse, many government rounds have to be made to support the development of new business. Travel life is important, but nature also imposes requirements other than those on the mainland. This means that national travel policy must have its own Svalbard look adapted to society and the environment there. This applies, inter alia, to: cruise traffic. The infrastructure must be built – the debate on new ports is important and the energy supply to Svalbard must be ensured. There are many questions that have not yet been answered in full, but this message and what we are hopefully hearing in today's debate show, hopefully, the willingness to have an offensive and positive attitude to developments on Svalbard. It's a commitment. The message is a start or a Loop message. Together with the Svalbard community, all the government councils with responsibilities that are important to Svalbard must systematically work to put in place regulations that support business, find the forward-looking education services, set aside for infrastructure investments and have an open ear to those who have ideas about how Svalbard can become even more important and viable. I hope that at Stortinget we agree on the major questions concerning Svalbard, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1000	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work on the Svalbard message. Svalbard is not only a unique part of the Arctic, but also of the northernmost part of Norway. Norway’s sovereignty is confirmed by the Svalbard Treaty and the overall objectives of Svalbard policy ensure consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty with stability in the region and the maintenance of a Norwegian society on the island group. All activities shall take into account the premise to preserve the area’s unique wilderness nature. The global scarcity of wilderness, combined with the development of wealth, means that travel life on Svalbard can grow, and the government will provide framework conditions for sustainable growth in the tourism industry. Today, the tourism industry generates around 60,000 tourists with over 130,000 visitors. In addition, cruise traffic comes with 80,000 tourists. With increased growth in this industry, I would like to underline the government's focus on the conservation of the wilderness nature and that environmental protection should set the framework for all activities. The consideration of vulnerable nature must be constantly weighed against how tourism is to be managed and developed. I have attended the business meeting at Svalbard and am happy to record that travel life ends up in strict protection of nature and cultural memories, where the «Master Plan Svalbard versus 2025» takes care of an overall approach to development. New port infrastructure is mentioned and is also important for the further development of travel life, and the Coastal Agency has been entrusted with the task of assessing alternative concepts for upgrading. This results in an important basis for government decisions. With reduced coal activity on Svalbard, the government wants to facilitate the development of existing activity and new business activities to maintain society on the island group. Today, Longyearbyen is supplied with energy from a coal-fired energy plant, such as delivering district heating towards maximum capacity, and there is an increasing demand in line with the growth of society today. With a vision of zero-emission communities on the island group, it is therefore an important signal that an overall committee believes it should be facilitated for Svalbard to become a climate-neutral society, and the Committee therefore calls on the government to launch a wide-ranging study of the possibilities for Svalbard to have future energy supply based on sustainable and renewable solutions, including: solar, wind and wave power must be assessed. Climate change confronts us with major knowledge challenges. The need for knowledge and competence on the Arctic is therefore increasing, as climate change is most felt in the Arctic, and it is an area particularly vulnerable to climate change. Research and higher education are therefore among the main activities for Norwegian activity and presence at Svalbard, and the government will develop an overall strategy for research and higher education. The University Centre of Svalbard, UNIS, is a world-class centre for Arctic studies and is training candidates with polar competence for management, business and polar research. The government will facilitate the potential of 50 pst. students from Norwegian institutions shall be accessible. If you do this, it will give you better predictability for both UNIS and universities. The research environment in New Ålesund will also be further developed, and the government will give the Research Council responsibility for developing a research strategy that will provide the basis for long-term infrastructure development, ensure scientific anchoring and breadth, and take care of Norwegian research interests at Svalbard. The Polar Institute is responsible for implementing the strategy, where Norway shall have a clear hosting role and coordinate research development and further develop international cooperation. The Government states in the Communication that the main objective of the Svalbard policy is to establish a stable and predictable Svalbard policy. This gives good conditions for future development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1019	I would first of all like to thank the case rapporteur, Trine Skei Grande, who presented the matter in a very straightforward and tiring way, so I will not spend my time repeating everything she said. One of the main objectives of Svalbard policy is the maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island. This goal has been achieved primarily by the Longyearbyen community, and for very many years in coal-fired mode. The coal industry has been and is in a demanding market situation, leading to a slowdown in coal production. At the same time, other activities have developed on Svalbard, which give rise to optimism, among others. in research and higher education, travel and space-related activities. An industry that is undoubtedly going to grow further is the travel industry. Travel is important for employment in Longyearbyen, and the government will facilitate more local jobs in this industry. It will include, among others: facilitating the attractiveness of Longyearbyen and its neighbourhoods around communities in the context of travel life. Innovation Norway is also now established on Svalbard, which will strengthen the basis for a broad and varied business life in the longer term, and hopefully help them with a founder in their stomachs to put the idea into life. The government also warns that the transfer of state jobs to Longyearbyen will be assessed. It's supported. Another industry that has the unique potential of Svalbard to become much larger is space — an industry that creates high-tech jobs. The geographical location of Svalbard is ideal for space activities, both for exploration of the atmosphere and for the downloading of satellite data. The Progress Party is concerned that Norwegian actors in space activities take advantage of the competitive advantages of Svalbard’s location and characteristics in space-related research, innovation and industrial development. Norway is already a major nation with regard to space and space activities worldwide. I think this is an industry that's going to grow, even after the presidential election in the United States, and probably more because of Trump. It is also important that youth in Norway and people become most familiar with the opportunities of space activities, that Norway is a Roma nation. We politicians at Stortinget, and not least those in the government apparatus, too, need to get more knowledge of this, and there should be more focus on space activities. In this particular area, there's progress. As the President knows, Norway, Stortinget, has now become a full member of the European Interparliamentary Space Conference, and – to boast a little – it is on the initiative of the representative Ove Bernt Trellevik from Right and myself. A unanimous nutrition committee agreed and then addressed a request and recommendation to the presidency, which investigated this, and which concluded that it was a good idea. The ESA Parliamentary Conference is an annual meeting in which each country can send representatives from its Parliament. So Norway has not been a formal member of this conference, but has been able to send representatives as observers over the past few years, which I have been happy to attend. Of course, participating as an observer has been interesting. The disadvantage is that it feels reckless to take the floor in the debate when it is not possible to make representations to the resolutions adopted. We've kind of been guests without the right to vote. As you know, we are not a member of the EU, but here we have a unique opportunity to meet formally representatives of the European Commission and parliamentarians from other ESA countries, and at these conferences we can participate actively in influencing both the Commission and other countries' national policies in the space industry through active participation in plenary debates and in resolutions. It has therefore been difficult to understand that Norway has not formally been a member of this conference, but we have now become a member of it. The fact that the Storting has now committed itself to such membership means that the Storting must organise this Parliamentary Conference, after rolling between the Member States. I think that is very good, and it is a unique opportunity now to put Svalbard and space activities on the agenda for both European parliamentarians and Norwegian politicians. Svalbard has many opportunities, and it won't surprise me if at some point there might be an application to establish a casino there. I may be the only representative of the Stortinget who wants to, but another possibility is, as other countries in the world have seen the possibility when you're so close to the North Pole, that you can build brand names on having the niche home country, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1045	First, thank you to the President-in-Office for a good job. The Foreign and Defence Committee had a brilliant trip to Svalbard in April, with visits to Barentsburg and New Ålesund and a trip with the KV «Svalbard» that many of us will remember. We got great impressions, good impressions, and insight into both the current situation and the challenges that the Svalbard community will face in the future. In recent years, Svalbard has become increasingly topical between many countries. There is no conflict about Norwegian sovereignty, but as Svalbard exists, current climate change could lead to changes in navigability and other opportunities in the north than we have seen so far. And that also gives you greater interest. The changes we see around us, both when it comes to climate and the general security image, make it even more important than before with research. Through the efficient operation, Kings Bay has made New Ålesund a very attractive place for research. During the Committee's visit, we received an insight into this, and also a wish that even more from the Norwegian research community could choose to have an activity there. Keeping the possibility of teaching is another thing we should listen to. In Longyearbyen we saw the large seed store that Norway houses on behalf of the international community. Although, with the exception of the Centre Party, there is little notice of global food security in this room, climate change adaptation networks and the securing of seed species from local crops are one of the most important tasks to avoid future waste disasters. The first extraction from the seed storage is all done, to the vicinity of Syria, where the war has wiped out both crops and seeds. The continuous research, including: Global Crop Diversity Trust stands for, can provide seed potatoes that are better suited to extreme drought or prolonged rain and flooding. Svalbard and the seed storage there play an important role. The University Centre of Svalbard, UNIS, wants to play a greater role by expanding its education and research activities. The center is in favour of UNIS getting a whole - souled study and more part - time studies. A comprehensive committee refers to a high level of commitment to Norwegian space exploration and space business. However, we must note that the government does not have an offensive policy in this area in the 2017 government budget. In the draft budget, there is a dramatic cut in the commitment to the voluntary programmes of the European Space Agency, and Managing Director Bo Andersen in Norsk Romsenter has stated that cut-off leads to a long-term decline in the Norwegian space industry, which is now being translated for over 7 billion. kr annually. Let us hope that the current budgetary negotiations will deal with this. The most effective way to ensure Norwegian busses on Svalbard is to facilitate business. Should a key be closed, there are some basic requirements that need to be met. Energy is such a premise. Work must therefore be started to ensure energy supply by connecting Svalbard to the central network in Norway through a sea cable. In addition, we should look at closed solutions, for example: in containers combining waste management with the production of electricity and water-borne heat. The center party thinks there has to be a process to clarify the future role of Great Norwegian on Svalbard. During the Committee's visit, different views were identified on the role to be played. My view is that Great Norske should be an active actor in the Svalbard community in the future as well. For this reason, the discussions that are taking place, the discussions that are taking place both in public spaces and in other forums, are very important to find out what that role is, and how tourism and other businesses can build strong and whole-time jobs. Tourism is undoubtedly a major potential for increased activity and year-round work, but it requires respect for the vulnerable environment and requires a coordinated process for development. To Svalbard comes either by sea or by plane. If the government thinks something about tourism development to the island community, it has to build larger berths in Longyearbyen, establish several direct routes to the airport and establish a border control at Svalbard airport. It is strange that a government that, in all contexts, will be a government for industrial development is so passive in ensuring the basic elements of developing an important industry for Svalbard – and for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1067	The Svalbard community is, first of all, a very important and viable society in Norway, which we are going to develop. There is also an island group that has a very special and important security policy role in the Norwegian territory. In addition, the Svalbard community represents unique natural and environmental values, which it is important to manage in a good way. In general terms, the government has provided a good big message, which takes into account these different perspectives and more, and together with the comments from the Committee they cover many of those fields. I'll just make some additional comments. Firstly, there is no doubt that a significant part — greater than today — of future nutrition and employment at Svalbard is going to be related to research and development, and that getting an even wider and better supply of education that is already there is central. Therefore, I am pleased that we are now continuing to develop a long-term strategy for research and, not least, that we are going to focus on a broader and more holistic provision of education. The polar research, for example: the one with which the Academy of Sciences for Polar Research and others operates will be important, but Svalbard also has the potential to develop broader bases of research and education. The same applies to natural values. There is a high nutritional potential in travel, and there is no doubt that it can be developed in a good way as nature values develop. But at the same time, we have to be aware that this is among the totally unique, large wilderness areas that we have in our territory, that we have a very special species defect, and not least that Svalbard is much more than most of Norway's territory is threatened by climate change. As most people are sure to know, the warming happens about twice as fast as it does further south, closer to the Arctic equator. As a result, even heating in line with the two-degree target may have a significant negative effect on the natural environment on and around the archipelago. It brings me to the next goal – to get a climate-neutral and climate-friendly energy supply to Svalbard. I am very pleased that there is now a broad consensus that one should carry out a thorough disposal of it, including the option of looking at electrification through cable from land. However, I notice that there is no permanent obligation for such a goal in what it says, and it is on the basis of what SV has put forward in the setting. On the SV side, we will continue to support the sustainable development of the Svalbard community, help it to continue to grow and develop, while in close contact with Norwegian authorities, guided by the necessary interests behind it, and take good care of the natural environment. With that, I record SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1082	The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1087	There are only a few decades since I could drive for miles on the fjord of Isfjord and on Kongsfjord on Svalbard. I could drive from Spitsbergen and over Storfjorden to Edge Island and Barent Island and work there. Today this is unmistakable. Today the thickness of the bridges is 20–30–40–50 meters less than when I drove there. It's impossible for me to find out about Svalbard on the basis of what I could do about that island group a few years ago. When we talk about Svalbard's future, we talk first and foremost about the future of an ecosystem and a land area that is becoming, not just as the representative Solhjell said, significantly affected by climate change, but destroyed. The ice-dependent species – bear, ringing, ice-cream and others – are going to disappear from that region, and they are going to disappear from there quite quickly. This is the background for thinking about the future of this society – tourism, research, other businesses and the political significance. The Arctic and Svalbard melt so the spray is standing, it's 20 degrees above normal temperature above the Arctic Ocean these days. When the Storting is about to set the course for the development of the Svalbard community in the next few years, we would have deserved a more offensive, more guiding message than the government has provided. I'm afraid I have to characterize the government's big message as, first and foremost, another heavy pause signal for Svalbard policy, and the Svalbard community had earned more. In 2014, the Green Party put forward proposals for the closure of coal activities at Svalbard, because that activity is totally out of the question both with international climate policy and with Norwegian international climate rhetoric, which is mainly about saving the world from coal, and because Svalbard’s future is clearly elsewhere. It was downgraded on the grounds that the closure of the coal industry was dangerous for the Svalbard community. Since then, coal prices have made sure that the coal industry is in practice very far off the road, and the Svalbard community, of course, as we recall, has become absolutely brilliant, because it is a society with great potential for development, it is vital, it is extremely knowledgeable. In research, arctic biology, space research, atmospheric research, environmental monitoring, geophysics, material testing and all the other developments in this field are, of course, very great opportunities for development, alongside tourism, which also have very great potential for development, but – and it is important to stress – not natural opportunities for development as long as the ecosystem on which the tourism is based is emerging is disappearing and has already changed dramatically. The Svalbard society now needs to exploit its development potential and to do the job that society has in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and Norwegian sovereignty in Svalbard, are unique signals of where that society is going, and those signals can be very much given from this room, because Svalbard society is not a normal Norwegian society. It's a society with an average living time of four years. It is a society that is extremely heavily driven by government appropriations and government leadership, and that society deserves clear messages and clear guidelines. This means, for example: that it is a pity that the government has wasted a year and a half not to follow up the decision to the Environmental Party The Greens' proposal to explore a sustainable future, including energy supply on Svalbard, but it is nice that the Storting now repeats that decision. But it's scary that you're once again adding up to 20–25 years with further coal-fired power plants. A clear decision in the coal case is also crucial for the future of Great Norse, it is not a company that is going to live in a tornado sleep in the hope that one day they will wake up to high coal prices. It's a company that deserves to know that now they're going into the sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1104	I was a moment in doubt about the representative Hansson and I have read the same big message and the same setting, because I agree with most of the others who have had the word here today, about the importance of maintaining a stable and tough course in Svalbard policy, and I believe that the direction that Hansson is calling for is to a large extent both in the message and in the setting. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for doing an excellent job on this matter, and the committee to have also engaged the Svalbard community in its work on the follow-up to the big message. I am absolutely convinced that is very much appreciated in the Svalbard community. It's really a big day. This is the fifth Svalbard message being submitted. I see there's a lot of commitment in the hall for the Svalbard community and the Svalbard message – that's very good. It is also in the department, almost the whole Polar department is present here today. It shows that it is an important political area both for the government and for the Storting. The Svalbard policy has always been characterised by continuity and predictability. The overall objectives of Svalbard policy remain firm, and they have done so over a long period of time. It allows for the development of a living community in Longyearbyen, with an increasingly varied nutritional base. The Communication states that the overall objectives of Svalbard policy should remain firm. It's supported by the committee, and I'm glad. In order to have long-term and continuity, it has proved to be a successful and suitable instrument for meeting the development of Svalbard. As many people have experienced, Great Norwegian has had major challenges. It has traditionally been a company that has been a kind of support bar for the Longyearbyen community, and in recent years the coal price has led to Lunckefjellgruva and Svea now in a state of rest. The message that has been presented gives the Longyearbyen community an extra attention, just to meet that development. The Longyearbyen community has what I like to call the "Svalbard Spirit". The power of the community, the commitment, the ability to change, and to contribute to making the best of even the most demanding situations, is an incredibly important and great good of Svalbard. We saw it, among other things. during the tragic racial accident last year, where the entire Longyearbyen community put together and did everything they could to set up for each other, both during the process of handling and after. I think it's great that the committee in the position has also recognised the work that was done in that context. In parallel with the communication, which suggests that Longyearbyen remains an important and good place for Norwegian families and a stable and good family community, the government has also proposed a number of measures, which have been endorsed by the Storting. The budgets for both 2015 and 2016 have provided significant funds for conversion, employment and further development, as well as the measures proposed for 2017 which are currently being addressed in the United Kingdom. We are concerned that jobs should continue to be created in Svalbard – not primarily to create some violent, expansionary growth, but to ensure at least that one can replace the job losses caused by the changes in Great Norwegian, although those changes have not been as dramatic as they were initially expected to be. The Committee states in its Opinion that ‘it is important to facilitate the positive development of the long-term urban community by further developing existing industries and facilitating the establishment of new industries’. I believe that the government has arranged for this, in accordance with the setting, in the message that has now been submitted. It is important and natural to focus more on education, research, travel and other business. I think it is very nice that the case rapporteur from the Left boasts of the government's environmental chapter in the Svalbard message. It is worth noting, but it is also important to strike a balance between environmental considerations on the one hand and economic development on the other. Obviously, these things are related, but it's so well connected that you can't have a policy that destroys what in many ways is the value of Svalbard's sales. That is why this balance is so enormously important. Focusing more on research and developing a research strategy is important, and I look forward to further work on the follow-up to the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1133	Climate change takes a big place in this message, and we have even recorded what the Council of State referred to both in its article and a few days ago: extreme weather. Then search and rescue will become a current theme. We also see that the travel life effort goes further and further north, with the increasing challenges it will bring with a view to having a good search and rescue service. At the same time, we see that one is further and further away from the capacities to contribute to search and rescue. We also know that charting and surveying of the waters around Svalbard is a challenge today. I want to ask the Council of State how it is working to get the charts more up-to-date, not least more than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1138	It is a work that has been going on for a while. There are still some challenges with part of the waters around Svalbard and with fairways, and the waters around Svalbard are still being surveyed. I think the representative addresses a very important issue in terms of search and rescue. The search and rescue of the northern regions is generally very demanding. There are great distances and difficult communication relationships, it's cold, and it's a nature that's very fragile. Therefore, it is good to see that we have now strengthened the search and rescue capabilities of Svalbard through both a new employment vessel, ‘Polar employment’, and through two equivalent rescue helicopters. In addition, there is a lot of excitement on Svalbard. The Red Cross on Svalbard has developed its own life-saving packages that can be carried out by aircraft in the most pig-grown struts, giving the possibility and the capacity to survive longer pending assistance. There are still challenges with SAR, search and rescue in the north. It'll always be, but there's a lot of exciting development work going on as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1145	It is precisely this last thing that I want to follow up on – the work of the partners involved in the project SARINOR. The Committee has also made it clear that the government must contribute to training and joint exercises between actors expected to contribute to search and rescue. Then is my natural question: What will the government and the Ministry of Justice and Defence do to follow up the important work SARINOR has described in its project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1150	Let me first say that I fully agree that practicing is extremely important. We conducted a little over a year and a half ago Exercise Svalbard, how little of the point was to test out a major and serious incident with a shipwreck on Svalbard, where all the force was used to mobilize and assist in the exercise. We also benefited greatly during the tragic accident last year, where one had done practice, picked up learning points and done a lot of right and important follow-up work. SARINOR is a very important player to help strengthen cooperation on SAR in the north, of course. The government supports that work in all possible ways and facilitates its further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1155	There are many fine words, both in the setting and in the post, about how important business activity is to make things easier for Svalbard. Like in all other communities, it's crucial that people have a job. There has been a strong desire from several communities at Svalbard to develop travel life further, and one does not feel that one has a government that is active and forward-looking when this is the case. The debate that has been delayed – perhaps also over a longer period, but at least we have recorded it in the last year – is the debate on passport control and organisation, so that one can take direct flights, international routes, to Svalbard. Too many people feel that you need to change the mainland, and if you want to increase tourism, there is a desire from the Svalbard community to facilitate it. Why has the government not taken this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1160	I have to say I'm a little surprised at the reality description that the representative here comes with – as if we don't have a government that's forward in terms of business development. I've been a lot on Svalbard myself, because I'm busy caring for the role of Svalbard Minister. I have participated in business conferences, I have supported in the work on a business plan and a travel plan with which the actors have done a great job. We have contributed with funding and competence. When I talk to the business community up there, I experience the opposite of what the representative Navarsete claims she is experiencing. Indeed, I experience a business life that is very happy that we have a government that really rates on industrial development at Svalbard, which helps to facilitate overall investment, which takes seriously the input that comes from business, precisely in order to facilitate further business development. So we're obviously talking to different people, the representative Navarsete and I. In the case of direct flights, it is not that type of direct flights today. It is the transport authorities who have to deal with the applications that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1167	This was a very nice speech, again with a lot of nice words about what the government is doing, but with very little concrete content. I want more concrete answers. When it comes to passport control, I think it comes within the responsibility of the Council of State, even if he pushes responsibility for transport away, and that may be natural enough. But as Svalbard Minister, I believe that the Council of State also has a holistic responsibility for the development of Svalbard, whether it be for the construction of new berths, for the provision of direct air routes or others under another department, but which must be part of the whole-hearted discussion, along with research, development, etc. So I repeat the question and hope I get a slightly more concrete answer than a tribute speech this time: Will the Council of State help you to get a passport check and thus facilitate a direct exit to Svalbard?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1176	The nice thing about fine words is that they can often describe good actions, and that's what I tried to do in my previous answer, because it's actually done very well by the government, and it's supported by the Svalbard community. I think we should recognise that. As far as passport control is concerned, the government has now proposed to the Stortinget to strengthen the presence of the civil servant at Svalbard Airport, Longyear, among others. by increasing by three staff officers on Svalbard. There is no passport control on Svalbard today, and there is no need to establish it today, unless they are related, for example, to: direct routes change. Then Svalbard will have to be handled differently from what is happening today. We have a lot of attention on it, and we have to adapt to the developments that are coming. I can neither confirm nor deny that in the short term there will be a need to establish passport checks, but it will be if we get into a situation with direct flights to Svalbard. There are charter flights to Svalbard today, but due to very special arrangements, we do not need to establish passport controls in the ordinary way, but nevertheless need increased presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1183	After the Stortinget had completed its treatment and setting, there is one thing that has happened that has upset many in the Svalbard community, namely that it is discussed to reduce jet-flight capacity at the University Hospital in Tromsø. I think what happened to the Svalbard community during the terrible racial accident was not only that everyone understood how much one was willing to stand for one another, but also how dependent one is on the fact that the big community is there when the crisis happens. I wonder if the Council of State, which is responsible for Svalbard, and which has authority of instruction over a unit that has been very skeptical of what is happening, namely, the employment man, has some thoughts about how to save this plane and save the security that the airbase is actually for Svalbard's people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1190	Having good connections to the mainland during major and serious incidents is very important for the preparedness of Svalbard, and it is also important to ensure that a person has a health service that is stable and good and also ensures that those in need of health care get it quickly. The health service at Longyearbyen Hospital has recently been strengthened, but it is the regional health services companies that are responsible for the accommodation service, including ambulance aircraft. It's in that process that it's decided that you don't have the economy to have a jet plane in Tromsø. Very familiar they do not have that capacity today either. What they've done is to set up a jet plane on the Gardermoen, which is also to be used for Svalbard if necessary, and after what I've been informed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare today, it will be possible to use and transport people about as quickly as a propeller plane does today. So the capacity is maintained, but it's not improved according to what Health Nord would want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1196	The Government announces in the main message that the current coal-fired power plant will be upgraded for a further 20–25 years. At the same time, there are very many teams who want and plan for different types of new business development at Svalbard, including quite large demands for, for example, new port and berth — strong energy-intensive measures. State Council Tord Lien, in reply to the Energy and Environment Committee, has made it clear that, in his opinion, cable from the mainland is economically totally unrealistic. The question is then: will the Council of State ensure that significant funds will be put in place with a very tight timeframe to explore a sustainable energy option for the Svalbard community?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1201	The future energy supply system at Svalbard is absolutely fundamental – especially for Longyearbyen – in order to have a long-term strategy for the further settlement and strengthening of the Longyearbyen community. Now, the upgrades that take place at the existing coal power plant will give us 20-25 years to develop it. It is something that can go much faster, but it is very demanding for me already to say that we should set a very tight time frame for the work that the Committee unanimously believes should be done, and which I am very pleased that the Committee believes should be done, namely to facilitate the identification of which energy carriers will be the most sensible on Svalbard. It can in turn generate both new jobs and new technologies, which can be export oriented from the Norwegian side. Focusing on Arctic energy I think is going to be important in the future. So I'm glad we got this extra puff from Stortinget, which is consistent with the Storing message, but I can't give any concrete timeframes for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1211	Svalbard is a more important part of Norway than before — because the environmental problems at Svalbard make us more vulnerable, because the northern regions are more important geopolitical, and because North cooperation contributes to detachment. The Svalbard Treaty gives us a strong state responsibility for good governance on the island group. The Svalbard crash message is more of a loop message than a direction message. At the same time, we are held back by Stortinget to instruct the government on issues of great strategic interest to Norway. But we probably wanted a more concrete direction. We've gone into the committee position, and other issues the government itself needs to do more work on. Is it Great Norwegian to drive industry development? Great Norwegian can cool, but it's definitely not future on Svalbard. The question is whether it is the company that is going to drive new business development. The advantage is that this company is subject to the state, but other state actors, such as museums and state buildings, can take over Minuve 3 and the properties in Longyearbyen. Unfortunately, we do not get any direction in this message. The government needs to figure that out as soon as possible. Svalbard is part of Norway where we need several Norwegian families to settle. At the same time, the environment places clear limits on the activity. Tourism must take place within a sustainable framework. The challenge is that the port is too small, and we have to make sure that those who land from large cruise ships spend money, not just emissions. Cruise ship traffic must then be sustainable. The issue of passport control is important in the case of direct flights from other countries. But here, too, there are good reasons why the Storing is held back from instructing. The government must sort this out within the framework of the Svalbard Treaty. Research has become the most important industry in both Longyearbyen and New Zealand. Here, too, it is important that we, as a host nation, take our responsibility. The role of the Polar Institute shall be ensured in the New Ålesund. The University Centre of Svalbard is crucial for coordinating research efforts in Longyearbyen. I was probably a little surprised at the tone of the Council of State in the exchange of lines. As soon as he got a challenge, he was almost offended. There's no reason. There's a lot of commitment to Svalbard here in the Storting. Now it is up to the government to follow up with concrete measures. It's not a big problem – it's an advantage for Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1224	Svalbard and society on the island are changing. In particular, there are two aspects that are striking: climate change that is global, but that gives rise to major impacts in the Arctic, and that the largest activity in the economy has stopped — or at best has taken a break. From a climate point of view, coal production is unlikely to be the most forward-looking industry in the coming years. These changes make Svalbard policy even more important than it has been. If we are to maintain our sovereignty and maintain a stable settlement, we must succeed in changing the Svalbard community and in facilitating new industries and structures for the future. The protection of the natural environment is one of the long lines of Svalbard policy, and the preservation of Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature has long been one of the overall objectives of Svalbard policy. This is firm. Svalbard has an internationally important and valuable natural and cultural heritage that Norway has a specific responsibility to preserve. That's what the government says we're going to continue and reinforce. At the same time, the management of Svalbard's natural and cultural memories must take into account the changing nature of both society and the Svalbard environment, and facilitate the necessary transformation and further development in line with the objectives set. Environmental legislation and the objectives of environmental protection at Svalbard provide a framework for all activities. However, within these frameworks there is room for action to develop activities related to travel life, research, higher education and other natural industries that lie within a changing society. In order to ensure such holistic and long-term management, the government will continue its work on management plans for Svalbard protected areas. These plans shall facilitate activity in accordance with the objectives of the protection and the provisions on protection. An important objective is also to adapt management to the rapid changes in climate and environmental conditions facing Svalbard. In order to facilitate activity and ensure proper coordination of management within and outside the protection areas of Management Area 10, management plans covering both protected and unprotected areas shall be drawn up here. The starting point for changes is good, and although different types of activity on and at Svalbard have increased, the impact due to movement and other current local activity is assessed as moderate. So the government will continue the protection it has today. At the same time, the necessary adaptations and flexibility to address climate change and increasing activity will be ensured. Continuous change in future environmental conditions is therefore something that environmental management needs to take into account and that both travel and other activities need to adapt. At a time when new industries and activities need to be converted and developed, tourism, research and higher education point to building on nearby activities. In concrete terms, it is important to facilitate the construction of commercial cabins and the use of temporary installations for winter travel and a better framework for non-motorised travel products such as skis and dog guided tours. Finally, in the time we now live in, it makes sense to facilitate Svalbard's becoming a climate-neutral society. A unanimous committee therefore calls on the government in spring 2017 to launch a wide-ranging investigation into the potential for future energy supply on Svalbard based on sustainable and renewable solutions. This Communication provides the basis for the change that must take place on Svalbard — and through good processes it will be able to turn Svalbard into a climate-neutral society in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1247	Let me start with a compliment to everyone who lives and works at Svalbard. If there is a people of their own in Norway, there is no doubt that those who have been on Svalbard for a long, long time. I think it's doing something with one. I think you're personally affected in the way you handle life. The only other people who are close to the same regime are people from Finnmark. So this is a compliment – let's not doubt it. The Minister of Justice and Security also said something important. He was talking about the Polar Department. If there's something I've learned after eleven years in the Justice Committee, it's that you don't mess with the Polar Department. Let there be no doubt, if anyone thought so. So to the setting. I will allow myself to be carefully critical, for I have read the setting and think it is consistently good, but I will nevertheless allow myself to make a few points. As regards last year's breed, it is noted that the assessment of the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness ‘shows that the immediate efforts of the affected, voluntary and organised rescue services contributed to the loss of lives.’ That's not a hundred percent right. The evaluation by the DSB states that ‘there is a high probability of: [[...]] In addition, I would have wanted – and I take for granted that the Justice Committee has not done anything about it – to have said something more about the Coast Guard's role around Svalbard. I believe the Coast Guard is a very important institution up there. Of course, it has a different responsibility than just thinking about Svalbard, but from a northern area perspective, from a Svalbard perspective, the Coast Guard is undoubtedly important to the Svalbard community, as it is to the northern regions as such. The same applies to the focus on the helicopter service on Svalbard. I am very pleased that two equivalent machines have now been put in place. If I don't remember correctly, Stortinget made a decision on 16 May 2002, recommending that you have two equivalent machines on Svalbard. It's taken time. Why might be another debate, but the fact is that you've done something about it, and you've come further. I am very pleased that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee focuses on search and rescue. When you do politics, you often have political children. For my part, search and rescue is one of the most important things. The reason is pretty simple: when the distress is greater, you need the most important help. We have good traditions in search and rescue in Norway. We have sometimes faced some real challenges before we established the Norwegian rescue helicopter service in the Defence. It was established after a major accident in the sea areas son of here. In addition, in recent times we have experienced events that have tested us. Sometimes we get tested and revealed. That is why I think it is a very good initiative. I do not overlook the fact that the Justice Committee will have any similar comments in its draft budget for next year. But an international search and rescue unit at Svalbard I think would be good. That would be good for more reasons. One is that the Svalbard community has a logistical few other areas as far north as it has. I have visited Alaska, and I must say, with all the respect for the Americans: they have some limitations in search and rescue. Canada has some amazingly large areas and very, very small tools. That, in my view, all of a sudden means a challenge that is greater than what they will be able to handle in a good and proper way. Denmark controls Greenland, has a few resources, but no large resources. Then we're back to ourselves. So now we have two equivalent machines on Svalbard. We have new rescue helicopters coming in that I myself had the pleasure of seeing two weeks ago. This will be part of raising the totality of our rescue service. We're good at this, and there's no reason why we shouldn't keep going. That is why I think the government should take the signal from the committee and from the Stortinget and work on this. Then I would like to mention SARINOR, which was also the representative of Simensen. They have submitted a report on 751 pages, if I do not remember completely wrong – the easy-to-read version for various government councils. There's a lot of good input, but there's also some challenges, because you're talking about the Polar code. Today, as I understand it, you simply lack equipment that allows you to survive the five days that you are expected to do yourself before you get help. It's an unresolved challenge that I expect the government to follow up. In addition to that, I assume and hope that the Storting, as it has now done, continues to focus on taking care of the Svalbard community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1271	I want to give feedback to the representative Ellingen: The entire Finnmarks bench agrees with that description of us Finnmarks. It is an important debate for both the Svalbard community and the mainland Norway we have here today. The Committee's position also shows that there is a broad political consensus that all parties will contribute to creating an attractive and exciting Svalbard of the future. The Workers' Party regards the northern areas as our main strategic field of foreign policy, and that of course includes Svalbard. Svalbard and Longyearbyen have a national and international focus, among other things. environment, safety and preparedness in the Arctic, research and development, industrial development and knowledge — just as we in the Committee saw during our visit there. Norway is the only country that also has an expanded infrastructure of 78 degrees north. We have some challenges, but the starting point is very good for further development of the Svalbard community. In this context, the working party will be a constructive participant in order to facilitate new business activities, which can ensure the settlement and activity of Svalbard in the coming years. The working party will be clear that all industrial activities, resource use and research must take place within the framework of the preservation of Svalbard’s unique natural environment and cultural memories. Great Norwegian has been and will be an important actor to whom we must and should deal with when the Svalbard community is going to meet a new tomorrow. In this context, it is important to ensure and not least to continue the great competence of the mining company together with other enterprises in mining and industrial activities in the north. This is important for the further development of Svalbard, but also for North Norway and the northern regions for the rest. The potential for regional industrial development, product development, technology development and other applications of that competence is high, as pointed out by the outlook. We have seen that since the 1990s it has been a formidable development of tourism on Svalbard. Travel life today is of great importance to the development of society in Longyearbyen, which many who have spoken before me have pointed out. The challenge is that several full-year jobs need to be developed. The working party wants to facilitate further investment in travel, but we want to be clear that this must take place within the framework of strict environmental requirements and legislation. Search and rescue are very important in this regard. I fully agree with the representative Ellingen, who addressed the important issue, so I am not going to repeat it, but it was also the basis of my lines to the Council of State earlier today. Research is very important at Svalbard. Not only the Norwegian research communities, but also international research has gained considerable space for research and the opportunity to research, among other things. climate change on Svalbard and its impact on the global climate and the environment. It's very important that we take care of it. There has also been a topic that has been touched on by many people, so I'm not going to go very far into it, but the research environment at Svalbard is at least important to take care of. Finally, there is a broad political consensus that the overall objectives of Svalbard policy must be firm. We know that many nations have their eyes on Svalbard. Svalbard is primarily in an internal policy focus in this message, but the interest around the Arctic means that Svalbard is also important in a geopolitical perspective. For this reason, there is reason to believe that Norwegian Svalbard policy is of great interest to other nations as well. Russia is close to drawing attention to this, and experience over the years shows that good cooperation can be achieved in favour of both countries. The interest of many other countries means that it is important to maintain a consistent and firm enforcement of the sovereignty of Svalbard. Proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and the enforcement of the Treaty remain important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1290	It is probably possible to create good rhetoric around the question of whether society is changing more rapidly than before — or, more correctly, whether changes are taking place faster than before. In any case, for the Svalbard community, the uncertainty surrounding these issues is high. Climate change is a reality, and at Svalbard, the results of these are quite concrete — and the challenges and opportunities that this can provide for new ways of feeding. A changed energy market due to more stringent emission requirements and an increase in the volume of cheaper energy in the market poses major challenges to coal producers. Svalbard, with its one-sided business life, is also particularly affected by these changes. I say ‘affected’ and not ‘framed’, as I mean Norway, regardless of the energy situation, should facilitate a more diverse business life on the island group. Svalbard is a strong knowledge society. They have a strong business life, and it's a strong knowledge society through those who live and work there. A profitable and diverse economic activity is an important anchor for a continued stable Norwegian presence on the island group. Such a conversion process starts with the energy supply. More, cleaner and stable energy supply is a prerequisite for all economic development. That is why I believe that the majority voting in the Committee addresses this very well. The next point in such a bet is a good plan. Due to the geographical location of the archipelago, but also due to its vulnerable nature, a spatial plan combining protection and nutrition considerations will be necessary. Proper use is the best protection, and a spatial plan that provides predictability for the development of nutrition within a clear framework becomes an important work here – a neutral framework that facilitates economic activity in line with the idea of the Treaty. We meet business operators who provide examples of unforeseeableness when referring to current plans. It should not be overlooked that this can put a damper on the will and the desire to invest in nutrition. That should be avoided. So a little bit about the role of the state: Svalbard has been blessed with a strong state role as a nutritionist every year. This role should not necessarily become weaker, but it should probably be changed. A Great Norwegian kneeling can quickly lay down like an unpleasantly damp hand over the actors who want to develop nourishment on the island group. Therefore, it was a good and proper act by the Minister of Industry to buy properties from the company rather than to inject more money into Great Norske. I also record that the committee has not registered that the Council of State has lifted the company from category 3 to category 4, so the company is more focused on a political message and a political purpose. It's also a proper grip, I mean. Nevertheless, it must be appropriate to point out the importance of the state being a good property manager up there. You have to give predictable frames and a push to those who want to develop nourishment there. You should not become a brake, as you can get the impression in some reports from the Svalbard post and in contact with both travel and financial actors on the island group. In this there are probably also comments from the Business Committee on the role of Great Norske in the future. Infrastructure is a prerequisite for all economic development, unless you have to pick cloudberries and don't even need buckets. All nutritional developments depend on it, so is Svalbard. There are many and good plans for the establishment of infrastructure. From an economic point of view, it is an important point of view. This must be infrastructure that facilitates many actors. It is natural to invest in berths, but with a large number of actors it is immediately more likely to see many plans for state-owned industrial buildings in relation to the berths. Here I believe the Svalbard community has a lot to do with actively facilitating diversity. The local debate on floating docks in or outside marinas is not going to get into, but it shows the need for the public to be crystal clear of public responsibility. Refusing a private operator to establish itself, on the grounds that this could distort the plans of the public to invest in the island group, is not a forward-looking local policy. Private operators also need to be facilitated when it comes to setting up the necessary infrastructure. This is an important prerequisite for sound economic development. We have many communities in Norway that have been in the same situation as Svalbard, with the need to transform business. We also have good public institutions with competence in conversion work. We have societies that can show that you have succeeded in conversion, and we have societies where you have succeeded to a lesser extent. One common feature of the successful societies is that they have made a clear transition to a changed, transformed and forward-looking business. By combining state action on infrastructure and knowledge, many societies have been able to establish a sustainable business. With the population you have on Svalbard, with the knowledge cluster you have there in terms of living and working there, I am absolutely sure that this method will also work on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1318	It is important to stress that through the treatment of this Communication, the Stortinget has gathered around the five overall objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy, including: the active management of Svalbard policy in line with the Svalbard Treaty and the continuity and predictability of Svalbard policy. One of the main objectives of Svalbard policy is the maintenance of Norwegian society on the island group. This goal has been achieved primarily by the Longyearbyen community. It is a society that has been constantly changing for many years, but now progresses faster, and the upheaval has become greater than foreseen in all previous Svalbard messages. In order to achieve our objectives for the Svalbard and Svalbard communities, further economic development will be one of the key elements. Therefore, as early as May 2015, the Workers' Group developed its own business strategy for Svalbard, and then we looked at the major challenges associated with coal operations that have long been the main pillar of the Svalbard community. In the strategy, we promoted proposals for new initiatives to ensure the growth of the economic development of the island group. Great Norwegian has been one of the carrying pillars and has contributed to stable full-year Norwegian activity and residence on Svalbard. Great Norwegians have had coal operations as their main activity. Now that this is undergoing major change mainly because of the challenges of profitability, it is important that the state ownership of the company is managed in the future in such a way that it supports the objective we have of Svalbard policy, while building on the Arctic competence accumulated on the island group. It is therefore important that the government starts a process with a background in the situation and returns to the Stortinget as soon as possible to clarify the role of Great Norwegian in Svalbard. In this context, it is important to clarify the direction and strategy of the company in the future in terms of mining, housing development, infrastructure and any new business areas. These clarifications should also illustrate how state ownership in Great Norwegian can contribute to the overall objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy. Further development of the port in Longyearbyen is important in order to increase business activity, but also in an emergency perspective. The follow-up to the KVU is therefore important in order to initiate the construction of a new and more appropriate port. The Stoltenberg government introduced a new port into its last adopted NTP. The Committee also stresses, as I would like to stress, the importance of a wide-ranging investigation by the government into the energy supply of the future. It must focus on a secure and stable energy supply that meets current needs, but must also facilitate further business activities. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of Svalbard in space. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that the development of space activities at Svalbard could contribute to strengthening the Norwegian high-tech space industry. In this context, I find it strange that the government can help to beat the Norwegian space industry in its proposal for a State budget by cutting off EEA voluntary programmes. It could also affect access to information related to the monitoring of the northern regions. We'll get back to that in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1335	There has always been a broad political consensus on Svalbard policy. In this context, the size has usually addressed an adjustment to the overall Svalbard policy through a Svalbard notification every 10 years. The last one was in 2009. When we're already dealing with a new one, there's a need to address the challenges in the cooling water of the crew at Great Norske, and that the government parties want to follow the development and conversion in Longyearbyen and Svalbard close in the future. It is necessary to assess continuously the need for conversion and industrial development measures that can support the objectives of what is our common Svalbard policy. Important grips have already been taken. I would like to commend the government for quickly taking corrective action to meet this situation as we have seen, including the following: in the case of major interventions such as ensuring the possibility of operating rest on Svea and Lunckeberg, the purchase of property in Great Norwegian, the proposal to strengthen airport security and EUR 2,5 million. kr to go to the artist's residence and workshop. In this way, a variety of measures contribute to a wider space of action, and this Communication also gives us an overall approach to the signals the Stortinget wants to provide for further development in a number of areas of this society. I also register that Health Nord strengthens the crew at the local hospital, which ensures the inhabitants more than before. It's important that we build a foundation for society on Svalbard, which stands over time, and which can make more legs stand on the whole. This will increase security and predictability, and it is also important that we respond well to the need for housing development in the community. The major and long-term issues, which also require rapid clarification, are linked to stable availability of clean energy and safe communications, including at sea. It is important that we work together to find good, not least forward-looking and sustainable solutions for this. As a member of the Education Committee, I would like to highlight in particular the focus on research and higher education. Here it is added to an overall strategy, and in addition, important steps have already been taken for New Ålesund, such as: will ensure and further develop a clear Norwegian hosting role. The State budget for 2017 proposes investments that reinforce this fact. We already have a strong presence with many environments that can build up under the research field, and a well-developed redundancy fiber cable makes satellite data and other large data transmissions possible and not least very reliable. This again opens up too many other exciting possibilities. In order to build up in different environments of competence, the relocation of State competence workplaces to, for example: The Longyearbyen is a positive tool that I believe is positive, and which I welcome as a very important signal from the government when it comes to important conversion and modernisation of state activities. In addition, it is important to build up under a potential growing tourism industry, which has more than one region of the world. Among other things, the KVU for the port infrastructure in Longyearbyen is very important and an important step forward to develop new opportunities that are now limited by the current port capacity. Here's a lot of opportunities, I think. In this context, it is important to develop a wide range of activities and experiences in society that contribute to building up the tourism industry, industrial activity and housing, thus well-organised to ensure that more people find it worth taking the trip to Longyearbyen. This will form the basis for growth within a number of other industries that we have not seen today. Another thing that I also find it fun to go forward is this with local and short-range food. The representative Bakke-Jensen said that it is possible to pick crumbs on Svalbard. Actually, I wasn't aware of that. But local and short-range food can be a very exciting niche product that, with a sustainable outlet, can be very interesting in the tourism industry – everything from swallowbardrein to fishing in Issfjorden, which many people have been in. In sum, my point is that we have the opportunity to build a modern society on Svalbard, with strong environments of expertise and, above all, interesting jobs, to develop exciting experiences for both the local population and for travellers and to build a still robust community that is attractive to families. In particular, I am in favour of the many possibilities that have emerged in the debate and in the input of this message, and I look forward to following further developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1358	Norway's sovereignty over Svalbard is undisputed and undisputed, and so it has been since 1920. The Norwegian law applies mainly, and the law is enforced equally across the island. The employee, as the government representative, has a very important role in the management of the interests of the state. The civil servant is both the state and the police officer. The work on social security and preparedness has been strengthened on Svalbard, as on the mainland, in recent years. The employee has two new helicopters with a completely different lifting capacity, which can hold 18 people and have an action radius of 240 nautical miles. They have advanced navigation equipment on board and modern search equipment. Increased maritime transport in the area, with a harsh climate and a vulnerable nature, has also led to an increased risk to the archipelago. These are challenges that the government is very aware of and that it has taken a number of measures to address. The ‘Polar employment’ service vessel of the employed person is new. Well, it's not new, because we, who grew up along the coast north, remember several editions of'sysla', as they say in polar struts. But this ‘polar job’ has helicopter decks and can interact with helicopters, which the former vessels have not been able to do. The ship is also equipped with an oil bilge on board and is able to maintain its oil bilge in a much better way than the previous vessels have been able to do. Several measures have been implemented to increase maritime safety in Svalbard. In fact, 2015 was the first year of compulsory unemployment on the island group, and there has been a state disembarkation service on Svalbard. In order to avoid oil spills and, in the worst case, oil disasters associated with the increased shipping around Svalbard, a requirement is now introduced that ships moving in the area cannot use heavy diesel fuel but must sail with light diesel oil. This is a very important preventive measure to avoid oil spills in the vulnerable nature up there. We have to remember that 80 pst. in fact, ship traffic in Arctic strips takes place in Norwegian waters. Finally, there is one thing that we may not think about, but Svalbard is actually Norway's largest police district. In times of police reform and contraction of districts, we have a very large police district up there that we may not hear very much from. But Svalbard Police District — let me use that term — has, in the same way as the continental police districts, been significantly strengthened in recent years. In 2014, three new posts were created, and in 2017, the State budget set aside funds for four new posts for enhanced control at Svalbard Airport. In sum, I have tried to draw a picture of a situation on Svalbard as the government follows very closely. Increased activity also creates an increased risk of adverse events. The government has put in place a number of measures and follows the situation closely and is prepared to address risk-reduction measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1374	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1379	In the examination of this matter, there has been good cooperation between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and the Economic and Social Committee, and I would like to start by thanking them for that cooperation. The issue we are dealing with today is very important and will have a major impact on the management and development of the country's Svalbard policy. As others have mentioned, one of the main objectives of this policy is to maintain a viable Norwegian society on the island, mainly through the Longyearbyen community, also in the future. Longyearbyen is facing new challenges today, and I am pleased that there is a great political commitment to finding solutions and to bet on the potentials that lie there. We in the nutrition committee were even at Svalbard earlier this fall, and we got to know and see the body what challenges and potentials exist on the island group. In view of the development of nutrition, there is a wide range of opportunities, including: within travel lives. With its wilderness areas and well-preserved high-arctic destinations, tourism has long been one of the basic industries of the region. Since the 1990s, there has been a gradual increase in the number of tourists. In 2014, the tourism industry employed 194 persons directly and contributed to 103 annual works in secondary activities. However, in increasing international competition, it is important that a strong political focus is placed on facilitating further growth in the industry. The Government shall shortly submit a travel life message. I hope Svalbard gets a place in that work, at least here in the house. Research and higher education will be one of the key pillars for the development of the future's business and work life, as well as at Svalbard. Research and development are of major importance for Norwegian activity in the region and an important platform for both Norwegian and foreign Arctic research. UNIS, the University Centre of Svalbard, is also crucial for Svalbard to be a knowledge society and attractive to other nations, for world-class researchers and research communities. As I mentioned at the outset, there are also challenges related to the development of that region's business. Coal production at Svalbard has contributed to jobs and stable activity for many years. However, the company that manages the operation has recently had to deal with falling coal prices. There is uncertainty about the coal operation on Svalbard, and therefore this debate also needs to highlight what to live on Svalbard after the coal. Therefore, the commitment to economic development is crucial. It is important that we, as politicians, do what we can to create good framework conditions for new industries to develop and create new jobs, including at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1394	I am pleased that they are firmly committed to the objectives of Svalbard policy, but it is also the case that one of the policies and instruments must take on board the changes that are taking place. There were issues related to the capital injection to Great Norwegian who gave an outrage in Stortinget when it came to getting a new Svalbard message. There is no doubt that the coal industry has ours and is important when we talk about Svalbard. It is said in the debate that the consequences are less than fear. Yes, but it has also cost to counteract the consequences of the fall in coal prices. In the case of a decision to wind up coal operations, the Central Party's line is that on the day it is due to take place, it shall be a result of a political decision, not a result of market conditions or business economic conditions in Great Norske. Possible termination is not a quick solution. It will have consequences for Svalbard policy. I would particularly like to pay tribute to the government at one point, and it is due to the way in which one handled it the last time it was a treaty property that was for sale – that one that followed the long-standing practice of securing state ownership, to Austre Adventfjord. It was important. The Economic and Social Committee, in its deliberations and in its opinions, has underlined and highlighted some points. One says that energy supply should facilitate future industrial development, not just addressing today's needs. It is said that we should build a larger and more appropriate port. It is said that one should clarify the future role of Great Norwegian, and I would say that Great Norwegian has competence in coal, but Great Norwegian also has competence in the Arctic – and one might call it Svalbard competence. It has to be built on. An extension where multiple government entities locate space independent workspaces on Svalbard may provide more possibilities for periods to build on Svalbard. When the Liaison Committee raised the question of veterinary preparedness, we probably had a broader perspective than what has emerged in this debate, which has been mainly directed towards pets and dogs. So let it also be clear. The future Svalbard policy must not make Svalbard a museum, but facilitate a living community. Then business policy is decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1413	It is good to note that there is a broad consensus on the Svalbard message and the Svalbard policy being pursued. There have been many good posts that have pointed to important areas. I'll point out someone. This issue of industrial policy has been a recurring one, and for my part, it is important to facilitate the existing industry in Svalbard, but also for new industries – to do so in a good way, and to ensure that Svalbard has a balanced business life, also towards the public sector. It has, among other things, with the well-being of Svalbard. Then I will be allowed to bring the local government and local democracy to Svalbard, which have an important role in this way, and which also facilitates the conditions for the inhabitants who are there. Many have mentioned the port. That's what I want to do. I am a supporter of the development of port capacity, of the expansion of port capacity, of the expansion of port capacity, and of the opportunity to take a step-by-step expansion of port capacity in order to adapt to what is coming. Search and rescue is an important contribution to Svalbard. Many have mentioned the SARINOR project. I will, too, because the vision for the SARINOR project has been to help make Norway the world leader in search and rescue in the northern regions. The safety of the sea is a crucial factor and a prerequisite for further value creation in the maritime industry and for the activity of the sea. The main focus of the SARINOR project has been the survival and rescue of persons in the event of accidents in arctic strata. A continuation, which consists of reducing the risk of environmental pollution and saving material values, is now underway at the start of the SARINOR 2 project, i.e. the next SARINOR project. Here it is important for the government to follow up on concrete measures to implement the necessary measures. Finally, I just want to say a little bit about the energy situation on Svalbard. I'm glad the government is going to start an investigation into what's going to be the future. I have – the last time I was at Svalbard – pointed to the possibility of electrifying Svalbard from the mainland. It's a great job, it's an interesting job, and it must also mean looking at the energy supply on the mainland, in order to electrify Svalbard – so that it doesn't turn into a light place, but dark somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1426	This year, the first cruise ship went through the Northwest Passage. It had its own reinforced ship, and they had a separate escort ship and two helicopters. There were relatively expensive cruise tickets, but it says something about what experiences people are willing to pay for. I think there's a lot of opportunities in Svalbard and travel, but it's important that we put the framework around that development in a good way. In the desert sands of Las Vegas there are probably also some who may have natural experiences in the desert, but the dream of building a casino town in Longyearbyen is a dramatic misunderstanding of the experiences that the Svalbard community can contribute to. I think the cruise tourists who paid a lot to get to drive the north-west pass are a slightly different segment, maybe the segment that lies in Svalbard's future. Then we've been criticized by the Justice Committee that we haven't discussed Coast Guard. Yes, it is because this message is only about the Svalbard archipelago. As soon as you get two meters out of the water, this message is no longer valid. For this reason, the Left has promoted that we should now get a separate north area message, precisely because there is so much that has happened since the previous north area message, and we need to see Svalbard in a slightly larger picture in the future. I just want to underline one thing that I didn't get in my first post, and that's the unique situation that Norwegian research environments at Svalbard are in, compared to, for example. Canada. If you sit on the map and look at Cambridge Bay, where Canada's great Arctic research base is, it's probably the same latitude as Trondheim. It says something about how incredibly far north Svalbard is, and what unique opportunities it offers for research. The last thing I want to point out is that the Svalbard community is going to make some big changes, and we have to define a new role for Great Norwegian in the future. Then it is important that local government be included in it. The fact that we have established a local democracy is a great strength in the transformation that we are now going to have. I hope that we get rid of local government in that development and discussion. It's not just that the government has to decide, but they also have to have a dialogue with the local government, so that there's an understanding in the Svalbard community of the changes you're about to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1439	I forgot a little earlier to thank the case rapporteur for the work done. I really do. So to some of the things that have come up in the debate: when the representative Rasmus Hansson does not find any direction in the message and immediately afterwards hammers the coal production and what has been said, it is a little strange. During this period, the representative first made a proposal for a representative to terminate immediately all coal operations at Svalbard. Then, for a while, we discussed a proposal for a representative in which we would ban the state pension fund abroad from investing in coal. Then the same representative was up on this pulpit and said that when it came to Svalbard, we couldn't do anything immediately, it was important that we provided a predictable framework for those who lived up there. So he would stay out of it. Now, the market and the prices of energy have led to a lot of this job being done by itself. Then it became important for the representative to come running after, press the button and say that now we must hurry, President, to ban this before it has settled itself. It doesn't show direction. So to another matter that has been raised: standby and jet aircraft. The thing is, it hasn't been jet planes on standby for Svalbard, but the health care companies put forward a plan where they evaluated it. There was a big debate in Finnmark, because you wanted to put a jet plane in Troms at the expense of a propeller plane in Finnmark. It was not possible to prove that this was an improvement in overall preparedness, and that is why the plans have been abandoned, as well as the plans that the jet plane on the Gardermoen has been prepared for the Svalbard community at the time it is needed. Then, too, the evaluation after the Svalbard accident did not point to the lack of transport as critical. They pointed to the lack of equipment and the lack of capacity, and it has now been filled up in Longyearbyen. I want us to be clear about it. What are the jobs of the future? Well, that's the hard part when we discuss these things. The jobs of the future are very often something we are not doing today. That is why my point in the field of industrial development is that it is important that we give clear signals on the framework in question, and here I am following the representative of Skei Grande: also for local politicians, who are going to take an active part in the development up there, it is important that we are clear what framework applies to the activity that can be undertaken up there. That is why I believe that the communication from the government, but also the discussion it has received in the committee, has been good, because it has highlighted the possibilities for development and pointed out the framework that should be put in place. And then it's very often that when you're going to have someone to start with nutrition, it also requires will, capital and someone who wants to do something. When I visit the Svalbard community, I find many of them up there who have both knowledge, will and desire to start something.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1454	I'm standing here with a look at today's address showing the last review of the area of ice-cream in the Arctic and Antarctica. It's a dramatic graph, which I'm going to encourage all the government representatives and government councils to go in and look at, because it shows so clearly how out there driving the world is. Over the past 37 years, when total marine and ice distribution in Antarctica and the Arctic have been measured, it has never been lower, and it is not only lower – it is dramatically lower than what we have seen in the past. That is why I think it is good that the rapporteur and the committee are in favour of looking at alternatives to the power supply we have on Svalbard, which is based on coal, and which, in my opinion, was too poorly mentioned in the Svalbard Communication. In fact, it should already be clearly stated today that the future energy supply on Svalbard cannot be based on coal or other forms of fossil power. The future solution of Svalbard must be zero emissions. To put it very simply, it becomes absurd that the part of Norway that notices climate change most strongly should be the one that has the most polluting power supply in the whole country. Therefore, our objective should be clear: Svalbard will be the first zero-emission zone in Norway. It's going to be the first place where we see how we can implement the green transition to provide zero-emission solutions, both in power generation and in how to operate the rest of society. It could be an arctic laboratory that would create interest, commitment, business opportunities and the possibility of green tourism in the time to come. That should be clear. I believe that the bulk of the population makes a mistake, and I believe that we keep the community too fooled by keeping it open so that the coal industry at Svalbard can continue. We can't look at the rest of the world and say – to India, China, Australia – that all of you have to end up with coal, but right here in Norway, we have so special reasons to continue with the coal that we can't put the mines down. Instead, we should say clearly from the outset: all the people working in the mining industry will have a large-scale conversion plan that can get us out of fossil society and into renewables, because nowhere do you notice those changes as clearly as on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1463	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1479	First, thank you to the Committee and the Department for Cooperation in the case. So it's going to apply to Prop. 150 L for 2015–2016, Act on Investigations of Accidents and Incidents in Defence, where the Government proposes a new law on a professional regime for investigating accidents and incidents in Defence to compensate for some of the out-of-date legislation in this area. In the defence, preventive security must be in the driver’s seat because the defence has a job portfolio that can sometimes provide a high damage potential, distinguishing the defence from many other agencies and activities in society. Accidents may be caused by human or technical faults or systems that are incorrect. Although it is impossible to fully guard against accidents and incidents, it is nevertheless important for the whole organisation to be able to draw lessons from events and prevent them from happening again. A prerequisite is a well-integrated and well-functioning system that creates the necessary security. When modernising and professionalising the survey work, it is partly to achieve better quality at work, but also to ensure greater access to information by promoting an open reporting culture. At the same time, a clearer interface is established with police investigations. The Proposition contains a number of instruments, including an obligation of explanation in conjunction with professional secrecy, protection against self-incrimination and against the subsequent use of information provided as a basis for penalties against the data subject. In order to professionalise the work, it is proposed to establish a permanent investigative authority to deal only with that type of case. The proposal ensures professional independence for the Authority. Work on the legislative process has been in progress since 2010, and the mandate mandate required the Ministry to assess the follow-up and proposals in the Committee on Inquiry’s position, NOU 2009:9. Furthermore, there has been close contact with representatives in the Defence Staff with specific experience of investigation work. Visits have been made to the Swedish and Dutch accident commission and have been consulted by the UK Aviation Investigation Authority. Proposal for a new law was sent out at broad consultation in May 2014. While the legislation in force does not contain criminal provisions, it is proposed to introduce a specific criminal provision into the new law, limited to offences of professional secrecy, the obligation to explain, the obligation not to remove wrecks and the prohibition of penalties by employers. This is done because these obligations are essential for the Authority to carry out its work. The proposition also addresses the interface between civil and military investigations. In order to ensure independence, inadequacy and at the same time proximity to the Defence Department, it is proposed that the investigating authority be subject to the Ministry of Defence Councils. The Committee gave a unanimous opinion on the matter, with the assent of the proposal. Given the importance of defence as an important social actor with a partly high potential for harm, the Committee considers it essential for the credibility of the defence both to place high emphasis on accident prevention and to have appropriate procedures for accident and incident investigation. Today's regulation is fragmentary and can provide room for interpretation. Modernisation and updating of the legislation have been in demand for a longer time. The Committee therefore supports the fact that the whole of the legislation is now being incorporated into a separate law. The Committee considers that the new law ensures improvement of the existing legislation relating to investigations into accidents and incidents in the defence. The legislative proposal is based on the need for a more transparent reporting culture and for professionalising the investigation work in defence. The Committee welcomes such an improvement and believes that transparency is an important prerequisite for learning and development and for preventing and averting future defence accidents. The Committee supports the proposal to impose an obligation of explanation on the Commission of Inquiry combined with a protection against the use of information provided under that obligation as evidence in a subsequent criminal proceedings against it or as a basis for penalties by the employer. This ensures the legal protection of employees, while ensuring that the investigatory authority has access to as much information as possible. A good safety culture must be the foundation of defence. The application of the obligation of explanation in combination with professional secrecy and other safeguards will form the basis for an open reporting culture, which in turn will lead to improved security. The fact that the defence as a professional actor takes security seriously, and that the defence has systems to ensure the security of the personnel is superfluous is important. This law facilitates a more professional and effective investigation work, ensuring that there is stability and professional independence through the administrative organisation of the Council of Ministers of the Ministry of Defence. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister of Defence deserves tribute for having completed the work on this important law – seven years after the Committee of Inquiry's suspension was presented, in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1511	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and, in particular, the rapporteur for a very thorough and good review of the main points of the law. Then one could perhaps say that a councillor did not have to take the word, but at the same time this is such an important matter that I believe it deserves attention. The defense is, as everyone knows, a great and important actor. We have a diverse and varied activity in the Defence, and a characteristic and something that separates the Defence from many other agencies and activities in society, is, of course, the temporally great damage potential of the activity that the Defence Agency carries out. It makes indebted security very important. In this safety work, we are totally dependent on being able to think about prevention, and we need to be able to learn from our own mistakes. Only in this way can security improve. Today’s Defence Investigation Act has focused particular attention on this last one. The purpose of the law is to professionalise and modernise the accident investigation work in the defence. This is done, among other things: by establishing a permanent and independent investigation authority responsible for investigating accidents and incidents occurring in the defence. As the rapporteur was in the case, the organisational suspension here is to be directly submitted to the Departmental Councils of the Ministry of Defence. The point is to ensure both the arm's length distance from the Defence Department and at the same time avoid being part of the Defence Ministry Line Organisation. That is why we have found this solution which we believe gives a good independence and which takes care of the investigative authority's tasks. In addition, the law places a great deal of emphasis on open reporting culture. It means, in short, that you should be able to tell us openly about your own mistakes. The aim is to facilitate an open sphere where important safety-related information is shared. Such concessions to the investigating authority shall not subsequently serve as a basis for penalties against him. The need for such a culture is related to the investigation of the underlying causes of an incident or an accident. Then transparency is important, and if the concerned fears that they will be met with criminal or labour law sanctions if they admit their own faults, there is a great opportunity for them to choose deafness rather than transparency to the investigating authority. This, in turn, may mean that in many cases you can't find out what actually went wrong. Uncertainty about causal factors makes it difficult to learn from past events and more difficult to work accident prevention. The idea is that all the facts should be on the table, because if the accident prevention work is to be real, the human errors must also be revealed. The principle of open reporting culture is based, inter alia, on: on a development of norms that has taken place in the civil transport sector. On this basis, the Defence Investigation Act sets up a set of instruments to ensure the necessary factual basis in the case. These instruments involve the imposition of an obligation of explanation to the investigating authority in conjunction with adapted rules on professional secrecy and protection against self-imcrimination. The protection against self-incrimination is ensured by a prohibition that information resulting from the obligation of explanation may subsequently be used as a basis for penalties against the data subject. The Defence Investigation Act aims to improve the security of defence through accident and incident investigation. The investigation is therefore clearly different from criminal investigation by not having a criminal character. Until now, the existing investigation work in the Defence Department has been aimed at looking for the underlying reasons and not at placing blame and responsibility. At the same time, the previous legislation has provided for a real mix between accident investigations and police investigations. In particular, the established practice of encouraging the police to participate in the investigation commissions has been demonstrated. The Defence Investigation Act amends this practice and now establishes clear gaps between accident investigations and police investigations. It is impossible to fully guard against accidents and incidents happening, but it is absolutely necessary to work accident prevention and constantly pay attention to the need to take lessons from the accidents, near-accidents and incidents that take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1536	This could have earned a bigger audience. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1554	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1563	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and thank you to the Left, who has put forward proposals on an important matter. We are increasingly aware of the importance of early efforts for the development of children. We also know that it's hardly as profitable for society as investing in our children, through good kindergartens, schools and SFOs. Nevertheless, I believe that the school leisure system is one of the most neglected parts of the school day. On weekdays, children in Norway spend most of the time in a kindergarten, school or SFO. All batches have realised that quality is crucial in kindergarten, competent adults and good pedagogical arrangements. All parties have now recognised the importance of early school efforts. The SFO has in no way received the same attention. On the contrary, in his speech to the National Council of the Right in our elected Prime Minister, hesitating with those who are concerned with things such as school food and school leisure, and then believing that the ‘most important road choice’ in Norwegian school was the choice between early work and school leisure/school food. This contrast is crazy, and it makes no sense to produce the school leisure scheme as a contrast to early intervention. A better SFO is an important part of doing more for children early, ensuring them more and better learning, supporting them during school education, and providing competent adults who follow their children through the day. Today, the school leisure system is largely the unused time — hour by hour after normal schooling, which in far too many cases could have been better and more targeted to support the goal of early interventions. There are many schools and municipalities that have made good arrangements, their own quality standards for what the SFO in their municipality should be. Oslo, with her commitment to activity school, is an example of that, and it's encouraging to see such examples, where they do good quality work. But it's happening to a great extent despite us in this room, at least it's done without any special drag help. In the Training Act, there is virtually no requirement for content and quality in the school leisure system. Differences between municipalities are large. There is a wide variation in the price the parents have to pay for a place in the school leisure scheme, there is a wide variation in quality, and there is a wide variation in the type of content and activities entered into the SFO period. SFO and activity school are part of the school with a large unused potential, and it's time we gave it more national attention. That is why the Labour Party is looking forward to a thorough national evaluation, and then a big message about the SFO. What's clear to us is that we have more expectations for a national evaluation than that there's going to be a compilation of facts about today's SFO. We have bigger expectations for a big message than that there's just going to be a flick on the status quo. A better SFO or activity school will be an important part of strengthening social cohesion, increasing parental participation in the labour market, improving integration and, most importantly, contributing to increased school implementation by giving all children better opportunities. That is why this issue deserves more political attention than it has now been, and we are looking forward to the further debate on SFOs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1584	As a member of the Education Committee, there is no doubt that the quality and content of school for me will always be the most important thing, which will always be the highest priority, but also the quality and content of the school leisure system is an important part of an overall policy for children’s growth and opportunities. It is therefore important that municipalities help to ensure that the school leisure system and the offer it represents not only become a pure place of storage but also contribute to the growth of children’s development, mastery and not least social skills. In this way, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for the fact that in the position we have today for treatment, there is a very wide majority in how we should follow the quality and content of the school leisure system, where we both point to the need for an evaluation, and where we ask the government – after the government reduced the children's family committee has given its position – to give a big message. One thing that is also important to have in the debate, especially when I now hear the rapporteur's mild hoarseness with Højre's leader Erna Solberg's speech to the national meeting, is the fact that we are going to lack access to qualified pedagogues in Norwegian elementary school in the future. And when you know that early work is especially important, that we have to have many qualified teachers into Norwegian school if we're going to be able to achieve the many goals, if we're going to reduce the proportion that lack basic skills after ten years of schooling, and if we're going to get down the dropout in high school, there's no doubt that we need to do the primary job, namely school policy, in a good way. I believe that it is not necessarily at all a contradiction in this matter, on the contrary. We see that the approach to learning skills and opportunities varies widely around Norway. It offers many opportunities for those with good school leave provision, but of course also presents some challenges. Over the years, we have seen a number of examples of how the SFO has developed from a public oversight system for the youngest students to become a variety of offers that meet the needs of parents and not least children. Activity school in Oslo is an example of this diversity that the sector has to offer, and which has not least contributed very positively. It's probably also related to that we see that as much as 65 pst. of the children from the 1st to the 4th stages now choose to use a school leisure scheme. Clearly, the more people who make use of such a system, the more demands are made for it to have good contents. The nature of the offer varies, of course, between different parts of the country and also often reflects the needs of the community and, not least, the opportunities to provide a variety of content. It is important to bear in mind that the Training Act requires a good learning environment — an environment that promotes health, well-being, participation and development for children, not least, and that this also applies to the SFO. However, there is little recent research or an overall evaluation of the offer, such as: also pointed out by FUG, the Parent Committee for Initial Training. Therefore, as I mentioned in the introduction, it is very good that we now agree to see the need for such an evaluation, and that we can follow up the quality and content of the SFO scheme in a more comprehensive way. Regardless of this work, I would like to stress that it is a particular responsibility for municipalities to work widely in order to follow-up early work in childhood, and to help children to acquire basic skills in the best possible way, and not least to prevent bullying in order to ensure a good learning environment. The shock story that we heard a few weeks ago from Alta, where children have been exposed to serious personality in the school leisure system, is totally unacceptable. I expect all municipalities to be active in ensuring a good growing-up environment, and not least that the county councillors follow up the municipalities and take care of this. I will end by saying that I look forward to the report from the Children's Family Committee that the government has reduced, and that includes. will review support schemes for families with children in general, but not least the school leisure scheme. In sum, an evaluation together with this report will provide a much better starting point for further follow-up to the operational requirements and how to set up the SFO for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1601	A Joint Committee considers that the school leisure scheme/activity school in Oslo is an important part of an overall policy for education, children and families, and that the content of the SFO is essential for the SFO not to become a mere storage place for the young, but to add something to the development and mastering of the children. It is also the party of progress. The use of SFOs has increased considerably since its introduction. In the years of the SFO, attention to the quality of school, testing and measuring the level of knowledge of Norwegian students compared to students in other countries has also increased considerably. We believe this in the Progress Party is positive, and the new reality should also be reflected in the SFO offer. SFO should be used for both learning and leisure activities. However, we in the Progress Party will stress that it is important to distinguish between school and leisure. Norway is a country with a tradition of a rich offer of leisure activities outside school time, such as sports teams, corps, speeds, etc. We believe it is important to hold on to this distinction and are opposed to a school model where leisure activities are put into the normal school day, as the followers of the all-day school want. However, we in the Progress Party see no contrast between this and having such leisure activities incorporated into the school leisure system where it is desirable from the school leisure system itself. Municipalities should have great freedom to organise the content of the offer in the school leisure system and, where appropriate, to cooperate with voluntary teams and organisations. It helps to give a diversity in the SFO offer. This should be the case, as diversity in Norway is high. Just the local and regional inequalities and the fact that people are different are some of the reasons that municipalities are responsible for the funding and structure of primary schools and are the school owners of most primary schools. They have great freedom to determine the content and extent of everyday school life in the legislation in force. The same applies to the school leisure and activity school system. We have different places and different needs. National guidelines for content have been very little. Therefore, there is also variation between municipalities in the offer given to students, and there are large differences in price. We believe that this is natural in the Progress Party. Too many national leaders on the SFO will violate the principle of local autonomy. However, as large as participation in the SFO has become among Norwegian children, it is natural that some leaders are placed at the centre, and today this is covered by the Training Act, which imposes general requirements on a good environment that promotes health, well-being and learning, as well as requirements for parental and child participation in matters relating to their working environment. This also applies to SFOs. When it comes to how the SFO is organised, we have confidence that local politicians and schools are able to take responsibility for it in a good way, in line with parents' demands and wishes. We note that the Parenting Committee for Primary Education has requested a national evaluation of the SFO. Given the importance and scale of this system, we in the Progress Party believe that it would be appropriate for such monitoring to be carried out, and we therefore agree with the Committee's wish: ‘The government is asked to carry out a national evaluation of the school leisure scheme and to follow it up with a call for proposals.’ [[SFO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1622	The school leisure system is a valuable offer for many. But you should not talk to very many parents until you understand that this is an offer that also varies a lot in both content and quality from place to place. In some places, the school leisure scheme is almost a bit influenced by being a custody facility, a kind of common babysitting scheme, and elsewhere, the system has been filled with content, cooperated with various actors in sports and volunteering, and made it something more than just a place where the children are supposed to be until the parents come from work. Some places have also tried to put some of the SFO time in as a break in the middle of school day and rather chose to finish school a little later. In that case, they have also introduced an offer of homework and exercise time within school hours. I think we need a debate on what SFO is going to be. I think we need a debate on what the purpose of the SFO is, what requirements we should set, how the level of ambition should be set, and also how much we need national rules and leadership for the school leisure system. Here I think there are a lot of different answers and solutions. Some might imagine a strengthening of the SFO offer as a first step on the way to a full-day school, others might think that it is the wrong way to go. So maybe it's a point that the free play still has to have a room in the school leisure system too. Much of the play that used to be in the street after school has now been moved to the schoolyard in the SFO period. The Christian People's Party believes that the SFO scheme should continue to be a voluntary offer, but we want to look at how we can increase the quality of the offer. It is important that children receive supervision and care when in the SFO and that their parents be able to be sure that their children are properly cared for. But I'm not sure – if we're going to give priority, and that's usually the policy – whether it's in the SFO offer the Christian People's Party is going to make the toughest demands on educational standards and teacher's density. It's the school that's primarily the learning arena. That's where we reach all the students, and that's where the Christian People's Party really wants to push in. I am much more concerned that we have too many unskilled teachers in school than that we have few teachers in the school leisure system. I'm not going to overshoot how the Christian People's Party will behave when the big message about the SFO offer comes, but I think more adults and more pedagogues in kindergartens and a national standard for teacher's density in school are more important than more pedagogues in the SFO scheme. But I would like to commend the proposers for the initiative. I think this is a debate that is good to promise, and I think it makes sense that the Committee is now gathering to ask for a national evaluation of the offer to be carried out before a big message is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1633	It is good that the Left proposes a review of today's SFO scheme in a big message. Nevertheless, the Centre Party believes that an evaluation of the scheme would be wise first. Although the Centre Party supports a comprehensive review of the SFO, it is evident that the parties have different objectives and priorities as a motivation to ask for such a big message. For the Center Party, it is not a goal that all students in 1–4. class shall be in a standardised school leisure scheme, or the proportion of adult-controlled and compulsory activity in the SFO period shall increase at the expense of free play, where the young are primarily given the opportunity to be young. Activity SFOs can be heard relatively positively. But where does the boundary between activity SFO and all-day school go? The representative proposal refers to single examples of young people participating in activities at SFOs related to topics they work on at school, i.e. school work, but in a different form. It is certainly affordable thinking, but then I believe we are talking more about full-time school than about a leisure system. The left means, among others: learning support shall be part of the SFO. This shall be work which shall: ‘enhance the academic competence of the students, but with a good angle of appeal, rooted in play and mastering’. We're going to stimulate the academic skills of students, yes, but it's very special that the practical skills and the practical skills are not mentioned as important to strengthen. At a time when many people have problems looking back and forth at a hammer, it might have been important. For the Centre Party, the SFO is expected to be a voluntary offer, with voluntary content organised by the individual school owner. The school leisure system was statutoryized with Reform 97, when primary school was extended and six-year-olds started school. There were heated discussions at the time about the school offer for the 6-year-olds. It was assured to the parents that there would be a lot of play and not an advance of first-class. Today we see that we have gone away from this. There is more emphasis on learning from day one. Then it's very important not to forget the importance of the game for learning – both the free play and the game that's crashed. Then we also hear today that many talks about SFO as ‘storage’. Yes, then there is reason to recall the background to this scheme, namely that the youngest students needed supervision in time after the end of school day and before the parents came home from work. The SFO should not be part of the school and should be filled with educational content. On the contrary, in the concept of ‘school leisure arrangements’ there is an expectation of leisure time in the sense of active play and exploration. Too few children get the opportunity to get bored today. Boredom means you have to think of something on your own, and that's actually good. Free play is very important for the development of children. I once had a boy at school who said he wouldn't go to the 2nd grade SFO. Asking why he didn't want to, he said, "No, because when we finally start playing, Mom comes and picks me up." He needed to be allowed to play with his friends, but the offer was too full of imposed activities, so the free play didn't start until Mother came and picked him up. In many places it is far from the neighbor. Then it's important that we get the kids to play with each other. I would also like to point out that the need for the number of hours in the SFO has fallen since the beginning, since the school day has expanded in several stages. This applies in particular to the youngest children. The centre party believes it is important to focus on the quality of the offer. A continued system of supervision of posted activities does not conflict with the need to ensure the quality of the scheme. Of course, we need to make sure that the young are in decent and adaptable rooms. Of course, there must be staff qualified to work with young people. However, this does not mean that the SFO should be snorted on a single template and with offers that make the scheme a mandatory offer that makes voluntary teams and organisations' activities superfluous. For me, it seems that the reason for the proposal is an exaggerated belief that it becomes “quality” only we put the most pedagogical approach and guided activities into the scheme, similar to the fact that the importance of play and self-directed activity has not been understood. That's what I think is doing the kids big wrong. Without prejudging the big message, I would like to add that the most important thing we can do to get a better SFO is to make sure that staff is required, i.e. the number of adults per student, and that the staff have child-care skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1662	The child ombudsman has mentioned the SFO offer in quite harsh order in the past. An article in the 2009 VG said that cage hens are better protected than SFO children. An article in the Evening Post said that ‘SFO is on its way to becoming a child storage facility’. Let me immediately stress that around this country we have a lot of good SFO offers. There are many kids who love themselves every day, learn something, and develop in the SFO they have. But what we see is that there are very wide variations around the country in what offer you get through the SFO, and how well it works. That's what's behind the Left's desire to raise this topic and get a big message on it. And then we see here just in the posts that have been before, that we have a little bit of different opinions about what the SFO is going to be, and how the best thing is going to develop. But in any case, through a big message, we get to light it, and we get to have a debate. That is why we are very pleased that we have brought the whole committee to the proposal, so that we actually both get an evaluation, and that we get a big message, so that there is one thing about the SFO scheme. The content of the SFO: I fully agree with the previous speaker who said it was about the employees. It's about having a sufficient number of employees and having employees with child-care skills. In the primary education information system, we can see that 12,000 of the employees are unqualified. It is absolutely right that today we have major challenges in school to get enough teachers to work there, and the challenge is no less if we also look at the employees' background in terms of SFO. But there can't be any reason why we shouldn't raise that issue, because it's clear that the hours the kids spend on the SFO are going to be good hours, it's going to be quality time, and then there's a difference between whether you have employees who have pediatric competence and whether they don't have it. It's not necessarily about filling all the time with forced play or content from A to Å, it means, of course, that there should be free play, but it's also about having employees with that competence, who see what the need for individuals is, and the development of the individual. I also believe that a good SFO offer is about price, and we see today that in the trials we have had where there has been free SFO, many – if not all – have chosen to use the offer, because it is a highly valued offer both among parents and young people. We have seen that in Trondheim there were 40 children who lost their offer in 2014 as a result of their parents not paying. Now it has nothing to say if it's Trondheim or another city, because this happens across the country when the parents can't pay – that the kids lose an offer that is highly valued and experienced as useful and fun for the kids. I believe it must also be part of that debate. I think it's a great potential for developing SFOs – even though not all SFOs should be the same, because there are differences in the country, and we have different things to play with. I think differences are basically good, because you can use different leisure activities you can take in, you can have homework – there are so many things you can do to develop the SFO, and everything doesn't have to be the same. But we need to have some overall plans for how we want to have the SFO, and that's what's behind the proposal. I want to link some comments to the government's work on this earlier. In the cooperation agreement that the Left and Christian People's Party entered into with the government at the beginning of this ageing period, one of the points is that we should work with a package of measures aimed at children in poor families, and differentiation of parental payment in kindergarten and SFO has been part of it. Then we've seen that in kindergartens we've delivered, but at the SFO, the Council of State came into this year's budget proposal, a model for how differentiation could happen, but the money was not there. The reason why I'm dealing with this now is that it turns out it's not useful just to decide that we're going to evaluate and then have a big message. It doesn't happen by itself. This is something we have to follow up and click on, and the left is not going to give up on this. The SFO offer is an important matter for us, it's something we're going to focus on in the future, so this is not something we can just assume that there's going to be a big message about, and then lean us back. We expect the Council of State to follow this actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1679	It is far too rare for the Stortinget to discuss the SFO scheme in depth. It was actually a scheme that came in response to the situation of the generation of government councils and signed, the key children of the 80s, who went to school at a time when the school day was simply not adapted to the new working day, where both mothers and fathers were increasingly working full time. It has also caused Norwegian politicians to have far too little discussion about what we want with all the time our kids are at school. We have an SFO offer with very large variations. I think it is important to stress what several others have said, that it is not that the SFO is evenly above a bad offer. There is a fantastic job on many SFOs around the country. But it is still that the quality is not always good enough, and that the prices vary so much that many of the children who might have had the greatest benefit of participating are not allowed. The price varies between different municipalities, ranging from 600 kroner per month to five times per month. The red-green government did a lot of right things both when it came to turning the content of the SFO into national policy, and when it came to starting trials with free core time. I think it is important in this debate to praise the Red-Green City Council in Oslo that has really taken hold of this, which sees how important the activity school in Oslo is for integration and for creating a social arena for many of the children who are missing it, and who have set in motion a wonderfully successful system of free core time in the ACS in those parts of Oslo where there are most children who need it, and where participation has been very low. However, I think it is important that, when we are now discussing the content of the SFO, we also discuss the balance between school and SFO. We have today a situation where very many of our little kids are at school from eight in the morning to once between four and five in the afternoon They spend a lot of time at school without it being school, and without us having a cumulative idea of what they're going to spend all the time for. SV's solution is to take some of the SFO time, put it into school day and make a more practical and varied school day – what we call all day school. This would mean extending the school day by two hours from the first to the fourth stage — a six-hour day for the smallest. It will provide an opportunity to make school more varied, a school where children can learn more, a school where we can revisit respect for practical learning, a school where there is room for food and physical activity, and a school where you can put homework into school day. There will also be an answer to many concerns related to the conditions of the free play – the unorganised leisure time. The big challenge for this today is not the SFO, but the homework, which means that our kids are first at school – some much closer to five o'clock – and then in the few hours they have left before bedtime, home and homework. With the full-day school – using the time the kids are already in school, in a better way – we will also be able to put homework into school and give the kids more leisure time, more room for free play when they get home. I think it's an important and good decision we're making here today. There is a need for a thorough evaluation of the SFO, not least to find out both what unites the offers offered around the country, what does not, where they do well, where they do less well, who can learn from each other, and then hopefully get a knowledge base that allows a new big message both to be a good message and to facilitate a good debate, where we develop solutions for the future SFO. SV wants more trials with free core time around the country, also outside Oslo. We have proposed money for that in our alternative budget. We want to take time from the SFO and go into school, but we also want it to be a school vacation scheme at the end of the school day, even when we've got a little longer and more varied school day. The importance of an offer with well-qualified adults, enough adults and meaningful content is very large in a school policy perspective, but also in creating a daily life that our kids can enjoy, and that makes families hang together better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1696	About 150,000 children spend time in the school leisure system each day. It's an important arena for friendship, for play and some places also for learning. Not only do all of these children deserve, but they should have a good offer where they can be safe and expand. We all agree on this, and it is worth remembering that the same rules on safety and framework in schools also apply in the school leisure system. The proposal points to many of the challenges and dilemmas of today’s SFO scheme in the proposal. One of them is that the Stortinget has decided to have a high degree of municipal freedom of action in the field of the school leisure system. It has the advantage that some municipalities will be extra offensive. For example, both the previous and the current Oslo City Council – the established activity schools in Oslo – did so, while others will prioritise other things locally. It's a strength, because it gives you a variety and more new ideas that can appear, but at the same time it leads to inequalities in the service provision. Clearly, municipalities make different choices about the school leisure scheme, and there may also be very different challenges in different municipalities. Let me give you some examples. Some municipalities have very low SFO prices and use them to attract families with children. Other municipalities have put great emphasis on the content of the SFO and thus seem to be able to defend a slightly higher price. Some municipalities have high participation in the SFO, despite relatively high prices, while others have very low participation in the SFO. It can be about different cultural or structural conditions, such as: the degree of employment or family patterns. The proposers point to news reports that the SFO scheme appears to be a clean storage in some places. There may be examples of some school leisure schemes being too low in quality, but there is no reason to believe that this is normal, at least given the criteria to which they relate. I would therefore refer to the 2015 Integrating Survey, where Divi, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, asked users about their satisfaction with the service offer, and there was only 4 pst. who replied that they were dissatisfied. But once again, there are variations. In some municipalities, emphasis has been placed on getting more learning support activities into the SFO. In other municipalities, the focus has been on the fact that SFO is just about to be the children's leisure arena. There should be a school leisure scheme — a place where they should be with friends, play and to a large extent choose activities themselves. It's not the same as SFO being clean storage. It can also be a conscious choice of value from local politicians. There is little recent research on the quality of the school leisure system. However, a sample has been set down, among others. shall assess the overall provision of services for children and young people and the school leave scheme is part of this context. It will be an important foundation for further policy development. At the same time, more people have asked for an evaluation of the SFO, i.e. more information and research on quality. An evaluation could provide us with a better basis for assessing whether municipalities are exploiting the space for action in today’s legislation and whether they are offering good school leisure arrangements or whether there is a need to make changes from national teams in the SFO scheme. I would therefore like to start work on such an evaluation, and then the outcome of such an evaluation will be presented to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. So I want to use that result and a possible recording from the Storting in the work on a big message, which will come after the evaluation and the Children's Family Committee's investigation are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1719	It is very good that we now have a debate on the school leisure scheme in the United Kingdom. I don't think I've heard the State Council talk about the school leisure scheme before, so it was good that he got the opportunity to do it now. I was not able to find the school leave scheme mentioned in the current High Level Programme. In the preliminary proposal for the right-hand roll-out programme, the SFO is scarcely mentioned, which is mentioned once, in the context of proposals to change the child's health. And the Health Declaration only mentions SFO when it comes to changing the parental payment. My first question to the Council of State is simply: how will the Council of State follow up the decision to receive a national evaluation and then a big message, and how quickly does he think it is possible to carry out such an evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1728	I always follow up the decisions made in Stortinget. How fast is it possible to do that? If you're going to do this in a good and thorough way, you're going to have to create a prospectus first to find out what you're going to order, and then you have to find a good supplier that can do it. So I dare not say anything about how fast it is possible to get it to. The Children's Family Committee comes – as far as I know – with its NOU in the next six months, then one milestone will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1735	The Children’s Family Committee – as I understand it – will focus on the financial support schemes for families with children, but it may also be relevant for the SFO, depending on what they come up with. Based on what we have heard today, we know that there are huge differences in the price of a place in the SFO between the municipalities. In some municipalities, parents pay well over NOK 3000 for one place. There are wide variations in quality and content, and that means that children, depending on where their parents live, get a different offer. They are not even guaranteed the same quality standard, because there is nothing about it in the Training Act. In Oslo, there is a separate model, where SFO, or AKS, as it is called in Oslo, are controlled by a framework plan with selected target areas, and there should be coherence between school and AKS, but there should be a difference between school and AKS. Could the Council of State have taken inspiration from the Oslo model, on which there has been a broad political consensus, when he is about to start work on an evaluation and then a big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1744	It could be. It's as binding as the representative Henriksen gets it. I believe, first of all, that a big message will be interesting not only because of the dilemmas, because it must also provide some answers and solutions. But there are some dilemmas here, and several of them have also been pointed out in the posts of the different parties. One dilemma is how much resources, weight and framework are put on what is the school leisure system, versus what is the school day. My main project – and that of majority parties – has been to strengthen school day and school content. The second is that I fully agree that Oslo is doing a lot of good with the activity school and has done it for a long time, but it is not always given that because one or more municipalities are doing something good, there must be national policies. There are also some dilemmas related to the right of municipalities to determine – different needs and different political constellations. The third is that I still haven't changed my position on the full-time school, so I'll probably be concerned that you're still going to have a distinction between the school and the school leisure system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1755	In these days, the cooperation parties and the negotiators with the government parties, and in the alternative budget of the Left, we have mentioned the SFO to a considerable extent, and one very concrete thing we are proposing is to have a probationary system in two municipalities. We suggest Skedsmo and Drammen, where we have prioritised money to have free SFOs for low income families, i.e. families that have a total income of less than 505,000 kroner, if I don't remember mistakes. You're going to get free SFO. We already know that income is a big barrier, especially for low-income families, when it comes to getting their children into the SFO. We have numbers that show that if you reduce the price or do it for free, it increases the participation. Does the Council of State think it is a good idea to have two such sample municipalities, and will the Council of State actively contribute to the setting up of the two municipalities as sample municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1762	I'm not going to say anything about whether I think that exactly Skedsmo and Drammen are supposed to be sample municipalities, but I'm generally very positive that you're just trying things out before you scale up. With regard to the proposal for grading the price of the SFO, my primary position has not been that we should have a national scheme on it. My primary position has been that there is a reason why the municipalities themselves can regulate this, and that there is a lot of reason in it. On the other hand, we have also presented different models of how this can be done in the budget, even if we did not find the room to prioritize money for it this year. So I guess it's not that it's going to be the budgetary crisis of the negotiations that's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1771	No, not the budget crisis, but I was a little surprised that the case-rapporteur Martin Henriksen mentioned that the Council of State has not been so concerned with the SFO, or at least not mentioned it in particular. But if it's true that you're a little bit busy with the SFO in the department, it won't be very good. I'm counting on the Council of State to be concerned about this. Can this in a long-term way help to play with young people being able to complete high school? Do you see that there's a whole loop here? We often talk about early work, and by making early efforts at school and facilitating more children to participate in the SFO – which is to be learning support activities – we need to have faith that it actually yields benefits, including learning outcomes. Teaching aid could be part of the organised SFO. All of this could contribute in a direction where fewer young people fall out. Do you see that good ideas also have to have political commitment from the Council of State to do so, or do you have to find solutions in a vacuum?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1778	It always helps to have an involvement in a matter. I am very concerned about all the issues that the representative mentions, differences in living conditions, differences in school outcomes, differences that are systematic, which say something about just who has the highest risk of falling from school – or not. I see that a good SFO can contribute to those issues. But I think anyway that the SFO will be less important than kindergarten, school, education and everything going on around it. What I'm concerned about is that, well, it's very wise that SFO has a setup for, for example. toy assistance, or at least to do the homework on the SFO. On the other hand, I think it's quite obvious that it's too long if the children are going to have first school and then a type of learning-supporting half-way school until late. four to five in the afternoon. In fact, some of the points of the SFO are also that the children are just allowed to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1785	I notice that the Council of State is against all-day school. It's not so surprising. But what I also see is that the Right Programme proposes new hourly extensions in primary school. This suggests that the real discussion ahead is not really going to be about whether or not the school day is going to expand somewhat, but with what. I think we've come to a limit on how many new hours of traditional education it's wise to go into school, while we need a more practical and varied day. That's not what I was really going to ask. The evaluation that Stortinget is now asking for becomes very important, and given the somewhat enjoyable experience we have with Councillor Røe Isaksen and evaluations, I thought I would ask him right away if he has a timetable for when that evaluation is to be started, and when we can expect that we will get such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1793	I also answered that in the first question. No, I don't have a specific timetable, but we're going to start with such an evaluation. That's a very clear message: all the parties on the Stortinget, including the government parties, are asking us to do this, and I also think it's a good idea to do that, but we don't have a concrete timetable. But I believe that if you are to have an evaluation, there must also be some thoroughness in it. We're not talking about a Questback study, and we have diffi numbers for parents. It has to be both to look at some general things – what do we know about competence, quality, price and that kind of thing – and perhaps also some deep dives into different experiences that different municipalities have. And so I think – as I think I hear from several parties in this room – that it is also a goal to make visible that there are some tensions and balances here in the discussion about SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1800	Clearly, there are some tensions, balances and dilemmas when it comes to prioritizing resources for school, kindergarten and SFO. But what we often hear, when there are now debates about SFO, is that it's in school that you need knowledge and learning work, that's where you need more teachers. Then there'll be an excuse not to continue to bet on SFO or activity school. Yes, the most important knowledge work is done in school, and that is also where the Workers' Party deploys more teachers, will have read, write and calculate guarantees and deploy large resources at an early stage. But we know that SFO also means something, and when so many tens of thousands of children spend many hours at SFO, we know that they are largely followed up by assistants. Some of them have professional letters, but very many are unskilled. We don't even have to talk about pedagogical staff and teaching aid with teachers, because it's very expensive, but will the Council of State at least work to get more with a professional letter also in the SFO, which is a group that's been left out of that work so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1807	That is the kind of thing that we must of course mention in a coming big message. But this is again, I mean, some of the same discussion, because it's a little bit about what the SFO is going to be. If SFO is going to contribute to learning – and it's good if SFO does – does that mean that the entire SFO time is going to do that? Does that mean that our goal is to have the same educational content requirements as you have in school, even if the scheme is not to be teaching? Everyone agrees. Does that mean that we should have national requirements for municipalities? If so, how should they be compensated for this? This is the kind of discussion and question where I think it's not obvious where we're going to land. First, we should get a good evaluation to see how the municipalities have managed the great freedom they have had, and then we'll see how we're going to move on with it, and what things we're going to deal with in a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1812	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1821	On my other question, which was about apostasy, the State Council said that SFO was less important than kindergarten and school. I think it was a little unfortunate grading of this. Possibly, when you look at the importance of SFO for children’s social education — both to make friends, gain self-confidence and gain self-esteem — and what importance it can have for success later in the school world. And not least: if you compare it to being in a very good SFO and because of the income in the family you cannot participate in the SFO, it goes without saying that it can of course have a big impact on the child's development further. In particular, it will not be good if you look at what activities are possible to get into the SFO, if you are able to organise this properly. Yesterday I was at the Parent's Committee for Primary Education, and they were very fascinated that this was now going to get a unanimous decision in Stortinget, so they greeted. It was very good for me, too, as the proposer, to see that the work we started in connection with the national meeting of the Left, which was in April, is now being unanimously approved. In connection with the national meeting, I visited Mortensrud School. If I am not mistaken, there was an SV in the government that had a trial project with this, where there was a share of less than 30 pst. who participated in the SFO – less than 30 pst. Then you did it for free, and the proportion went up to over 90 pst. It just shows that when you do this for free, there is a huge gain for those children who are not allowed to participate in the SFO or in the AKS in Oslo because of their income. What we also know is that it's just those with the lowest income that participate at least. It is also those with the highest income and other groups who do not participate, because it is, after all, voluntary. But if you look at what skills you can train in private, there would be a big difference between whether your parents have good finances or not. A well-organised SFO can include music, drama, dance, singing and sports training, and it can also have an equal opportunities promotion purpose. You could also have had cooking and – as I was in the past – homework. After all, not all parents can provide homework for their children. All in all, I am very pleased that this gets unanimous agreement from the committee. Ideally, I would also like to see in the big news that you are both trying out that municipalities get free SFO from income, and that you may have sample schemes where you can expand the SFO from 1 to 4 steps to apply from 1 to 7 steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1834	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1850	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1859	I would first of all like to thank the Cooperation Committee in this matter, which is a representative proposal made by representatives of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, to ensure that all pupils in primary school are entitled to training on their main objective through a change in the Training Act § 2-5 and other possible measures. An overall committee points to the overall objective of language policy to ensure the Norwegian language, book goals and new Norwegian, its position as a fully-fledged language of society in Norway. It is also an overall committee which emphasises that it is a political responsibility to ensure good framework conditions in school for new Norwegian, such as the least used writing language. Today's scheme means that when at least 10 students reach one of the class steps from 1 to 7. class in a municipality wishes to receive written training on a primary objective other than that adopted by the municipality as the primary objective of each school, they have the right to belong to a specific target group. That right applies as long as there are at least six students left in this group. It is this right that the proposers now want to expand, so that it applies to all classes in primary school. This may, for example: is done through the so-called Odda model, which has introduced its own neonormical classes and book-keeping classes at the youth level. The Minister of Knowledge has stated in his reply to the Committee that he will investigate the need and costs of introducing a national regime similar to the Odda model during the spring of 2017. I am pleased that there is a joint committee that is now concluding on this in a joint proposal. We know that there are many people who switch from nine Norse to bookmaking when they go from high school to high school. This is particularly true in what is called the edge zone of new Norse, and it helps to weaken the position of the newnorse. The position of newcomers in society and in school is under pressure, and this is due, among other things, to: that students meet a little newnorish in school everyday life and in education. I think securing all primary school students on their primary goal can be an important contribution to maintaining new-neurism and ensuring the position of this language. I am therefore pleased with the decision taken today by the Stortinget. With that, I would like to thank both the proposers, who have come together across many party boundaries, and the committee, who have gathered together in a desire to lift the nostrils and give all students a right to be taught their main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1874	Book targets and newcomers have today been legally anchored as equivalent and equivalent Norwegian writing languages, and they must be integrated into a language-shared national common culture, as it is called. It obliges us as legislators. School is one of the most important common institutions we have. The school has a major impact on students’ language development — future language providers. It is a prerequisite for a language to be able to stand for the future, for its use, and for a language to be used, it must also be possible and taught – one depends on the other. In this way, training at school is important. We have a law, on which the case rapporteur was involved, saying that students have the right to receive training in the form in which they belong. We also have a law that says that students can belong to a target group if they are many enough. And that's what this proposal for a representative is primarily about, because today this right only applies from 1st to 7th grade. In Norway, we have a ten-year comprehensive primary school with a common curriculum. The municipalities, who are the ones who choose the target form, are the school owners for all the ten years, but the rights when it comes to their own target form and being able to belong to a language group, change at the time of transition to secondary school – or put a little emphasis on: when you go over the hall, to high school. There's something weird about that. Students are allowed to choose their own target form from 8th grade, but even if you choose, for example, a neo-Norwegian target form, we know that the same students in language-shared areas are often taught book goals, and that the other arrangements are not good enough in some places. And then maybe the choice to change the target form in 8th grade is relatively simple, because what's actually the option? We know that this is extra topical in my and the state council's home state, Telemark, where the decline from the new Norse is greatest, where the proportion of neonorse liver fell by 8 pst. during primary school. When you experience not having good enough training in your own way, there is a danger that it can help you choose the most widely used language, and that should not be the case. It does not serve the linguistic diversity of Norway. The Workers’ Party therefore agrees with the proposal to seek an amendment to the Training Act which provides secondary school students with training in their primary objective and the right to belong to a language group. It is referred to the Odda model in the draft representative, and in comments. In Odda, it is also made own bookmaking and new Norwegian classes in secondary school. This is a good example of how to choose to organise training according to the language situation in the municipality, where both forms of education are well cared for. Our goal is to make all students safe users of languages, whether they have nynosic or book goals as their primary goal. The working party believes that students should be guaranteed good opportunities to maintain their target form throughout their initial training, as the draft representative calls for. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that is in favour of the proposal in the document. Hopefully that means a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1895	Our language is an important part of our identity. In the Nynorscordbook, the identity in this context is explained as ‘sum of elements that give an individual, a society and individuality; ‘eg-conscious’’. The concept of identity includes, inter alia: an important place both in sociology, in anthropology, in literature and, of course, in language science. It is also an overall objective of the Norwegian language policy to ensure the Norwegian writing languages, book goals and new Norwegian positions as fully-fledged social languages. The entire Church Education and Research Committee is, as has been said, committed to ensuring that even the least-used writing language has a good framework in primary school. The right to education on its own main objective is essential and is also enshrined in the Training Act § 2-5. At the same time, we see in practice that, in particular, the transition between childhood and youth is vulnerable and that many students change language forms here. This is the basis for the proposal for a decision to extend the right to belong to a specific target group throughout the primary school cycle for pupils wishing to receive training in a different target form from that adopted by the municipality as their primary objective at each school. It is shown, among others: to the good experience of Odda. I have noticed that the Minister of Knowledge in his reply to the Committee refers to the fact that the training law and curricula are well suited to meet both local conditions and the needs and needs of the students for training in their own way. He also indicates that it must be up to the individual municipality to decide on a scheme such as this. it in Odda may be applicable. At the same time, the Minister of Knowledge also points out that there will be extra costs for municipalities with the introduction of such a scheme. I am pleased that the Committee has now agreed on a proposal to ask the government to amend the Training Act § 2-5 and other possible measures that ensure that the students in secondary school are entitled to training on the main objective and the right to belong to a specific target form group. We in the Right believe it is important to get such an investigation in place in order to assess how best to care for these students, and we therefore support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1908	The proposal takes into account ‘possible measures to ensure that young people are entitled to training on the main objective and the right to be heard by their own target groups’ and calls on the government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. Over time, language struggle has been both bitter and divisive in Norway. That time is – fortunately, I get to say – over. But there are still sharp fronts between the main dimensions and the side dimensions. Many of these have probably historical causes, but many also have practical reasons. The Progress Party considers it positive that the Committee has avoided making this issue a political language dispute. The progress party will primarily have optional sidings in the school, and this side goal may be either new or book goals. We are for two equivalent target forms – new Norwegian and Bokmål – in the Norwegian school. We agree with what is stated in the language message, St.meld. No 35 for 2007–08, stressing that ensuring the Norwegian language is an overall objective of language policy, ensuring the position of both book goals and new Norwegian as full-time and community-based languages in Norway. We therefore have a great deal of understanding of the proposal in the case and of the so-called Odda model, where the municipality ensures that those who have been trained in early school in the Netherlands will continue to do so by having their own bookkeeping classes and their own neonormous classes. We must recognise that the results in Norwegian school have been discouraging for many years with regard to the literacy skills of students. An improvement in literacy requires offensive and professionally based policies. Here I would like to highlight the government’s language, reading and writing strategy, Language Loops, which will strengthen Norwegian children’s and students’ skills in language, reading and writing. All Norwegian kindergartens and schools will be able to attend in four years. The teaching arrangements in the strategy are designed in collaboration with researchers, kindergarten educators and teachers, and the Reading Centre at the University of Stavanger is responsible for driving the strategy. The writing centre at NTNU is also a central professional player. The goal is to achieve an overall boost for language, reading and writing in 2016–2019. Reaching the children and students who need extra help, as early as possible, is an important factor in the strategy. In addition, Language Loops shall enhance the ability of all children and students to understand languages and texts and shall enable teachers to identify and facilitate them with language, reading and writing difficulties. We in the Progress Party are pleased that the government has come on the track and is taking the problems at school seriously. A comprehensive and professional policy that ensures that as many students as possible are actually able to read and write is alpha and omega. If you cannot read, you cannot acquire knowledge in other disciplines. The target form chosen by the students does not matter. What is important, on the other hand, is that the students are taught and taught in line with the target form they have chosen. In this case, there is evidence from a report from Proba social analysis that clearly reveals the problem of both teachers and high school students in the context of the lack of education and distribution of material in the form they have chosen. Against this background, the Progress Party looks forward to further work on the matter, which can better ensure that students in secondary school are entitled to training on the main objective and the right to belong to a specific target form group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1925	Good language training goes down a long way in the list when young people are going to divide the elephants into new groups. It borders the newcomers in the parts of Norway with a mixture of languages. The center party thinks that the elephant should have the right to be trained in their own language for the entire base ball. Today, students are only entitled to training in their main goal for seven out of 13 years in the primary school, and it is the teaching staff and not the students who today decide the training goal in the youth school. Students in the youth school are entitled to no other than teaching material and exams in their own language and to do written work on the main goal. In practice, this means that in a mixture of languages, where neo-normian students are in a minority, students get a large part of their education in bookkeeping. Thus, Norwegian language training policy violates what is internationally regarded as a central language law, namely the right to training in own languages. Students are far from finished with language development when they're finished with the children's ball. Norwegian is important, but in order to be safe linguistically, a met goal form should be used in all disciplines. That language is added and enhanced by the use of that language. The language message says that it is an overarching goal in our language policy to secure the Norwegian language, book goals and new Norwegian, its position as a community language in Norway. In today's vote, there is a joint committee which stresses that it is an important political task to ensure that the least-used writing language is a good framework in the base sphere. A joint committee supports the proposal to ask the government to amend the training law § 2-5 and other possible measures to ensure that students in the youth school are entitled to training on their main goal, and to return to the Stortinget in their own way. To the committee and to the case-speaker, Tyvand – thank you for the vote. And to the parties behind the proposal – thank you for constructive cooperation. In fact, it was referred to the so-called Odda model. Odd municipalities have been practicing for hundreds of years to give elephants the right to language-shared classes throughout the globe. It also applied to the youth ball when it was introduced. Odda is a language-shared area. Odda model has a certain equivalency between book goals and new Norwegian. The students have been proud of the dialect and the form of their goal, whether they have had nynosic or book goals as their main goal. The Odda model has made sure you don't have a language contest in school, but now this is over. Odda model ended in Odda municipality in the fall. Because of a tight municipal budget, neither the councillor nor the local government saw any advice to continue with the so-called Odda model. Since this is not a statutory task with its own target form group in the youth sphere, there is no government funding to municipalities like Odda, who really want to continue with language-shared groups at the youth level. Language shifts in schools are one of the linguistic sociological phenomena that make it a little less and less of a kidney user. There is reason to conclude that individual language shifts from neo-Norwegian to book goals at the youth stage and in secondary schools are threatening the new Norwegian position, and that is in the linguistic mix of areas this problem is greatest. I was myself a newcomer who changed to bookmaking at the youth age, because bookkeeping had been the dominant language in the district where I grew up. The alternative for me was to be drawn out of Norwegian hours, but I wanted to be in my class in Norwegian hours, so I changed language. On further progress I switched back again. However, not having the right to join a specific target form group in the youth sphere can help to increase the non-return rate from a neo-Norwegian perspective. We see this happening in all the fringes of New Norse, especially in the counties of Hedmark, Oppland, Telemark, Agder County, Rogaland and Hordaland. When one in Telemark sees that the part of the newnorms live falls from 70 pst. to 9 pst. In the first place, there is such a strong disintegration that a political one is forced to do something about it. Now the government has been given a clear signal: the right to training in its main goal must apply to all the elephants in the entire base. In this way, a certain new Norway can place itself in the national common sphere of language-shared languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1942	Target form is something that creates a great deal of commitment and, in part, quite a big debate. In the last few months, at least we have experienced it in the West, when it has been negotiated a new Western region. The county rapporteur from Rogaland expressed that it is ‘unnatural’ for many from Rogaland to use neo-Norwegian as a target form and won with it in the negotiations. In retrospect, it has created a high level of commitment both in the media and in the social media, in which, in particular, the neo-Norwegian people have indicated that it is clear that the Western region must have a new sense of purpose. Now I'm not going to mean anything about what the Western region is going to have as official target form, but it shows an commitment. Because it's a lot more than just whether the websites of a region are to be written in new Norwegian or in bookbooks, or whether the letters are to be written in new Norwegian or in bookbooks. It's about identity, it's about something that describes who we are. Well, that's what's behind the big commitment, and that's probably what's behind the proposal, from proposers representing different parties. I don't want to prolong the debate. It's a unanimous big deal that's behind this, and that's said very well in the debate already. I would just like to stress that the Left is also among the proposers. The fact that students throughout primary school will be able to use their primary goal, get training on the main goal and belong to their own target group, we are pleased that the Stortinget is now asking the government to look at and come back in an appropriate way, because there are good reasons why you should be trained in their natural primary goal throughout primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1951	I am delighted to be able to support this proposal for a representative together with a number of other representatives from the West in Stortinget. I have to say I am pleased that it has received such a positive reception and the possibility of a further life – hopefully in the form of concrete proposals and decisions at the other end of the investigation that is now coming. A very important question about the future of the newnorm is our ability to stand up for a school where there will be a good place for those who have a nine-norm as their main goal, even outside the absolute core areas of the newnorm. For example, it will. say in many places in the state I represent, where we know that the new witch is under pressure in traditional neonormous areas. In a society where book goals are so dominant in the media and in the public conversation, we will only be able to counteract the trend we see towards early change of target form, if we create other, clear arenas where there is as good room for newnorm as for book goals. It's been the core of the Odda model. The representative Kjersti Toppe is quite right that Odda Municipality has now gone away from it. There is also a sad consequence of the problems of the municipalities in getting the ends to meet under the current government. But I believe that the Odda model can still be of inspiration to us. It's worked. It has had something to say about young people’s views on language, their attitudes towards their own goals, and their attitudes towards the new Norwegians. I think we have a lot to pick up both when it comes to changing rules, and when it comes to trying to change attitudes and a consciousness in the schools of the so-called edge zones about how important it is to create a larger room for the new nostrils, if we want to counteract the tendency to target shifts. I think we should. We have a responsibility to maintain the rights of the minority of the population who have a new Norse as their primary goal, to have room and acceptance for their goal form. There are strong linguistic and cultural reasons and arguments for us as a society to facilitate the development of new-neurism. It is precisely to ensure that young people who are from areas where the newnorm has traditionally been strong, can — and are encouraged to — keep their main objective of newnorm, and are given the opportunity to do so. This is a political question, so I hope that the government will take seriously the investigation they have promised, and not least follow it up with concrete proposals that can enable Odda municipalities and very many others to reintroduce the model that Odda has had good experience with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1964	Linguistic diversity is a cultural resource, and having two objectives is a enriching thing for society and for students. It's an important part of Norwegian history. It is also part of the school’s education and a requirement in the Norwegian curriculum to qualify students for education, work and community participation. This includes, inter alia: students shall have the joy and benefit of being able to read texts on both target forms. The curriculum and skills objectives are designed regardless of the main target form that students have, and students should learn to read and write on both book goals and new Norwegian. The representative proposal is based on what is called the Odda model, which adds language-shared classes to the youth. The law currently in force is that each municipality decides for itself which target should be the main objective of each school. The main objective shall be used in written training and in written work. Today, from 1 to 7 steps, students must use the main objective adopted by the municipality for the school, in the written work. However, when at least ten students in one of the first and seventh years of a municipality wish to receive written training in a primary objective other than that adopted by the municipality for the school, these students have the right to belong to a separate student group. From the eighth year onwards, the students themselves choose the main written target form they want to use. The proposers point out that in high school, many neo-Norwegian students go to groups where the training takes place in book goals. Followers of the Odda model point out that it is at the transition from schools with kindergartens where the main goal is neo-Norwegian to more centralised secondary schools where the main goal is book goals, most of the targets are shared. Many adapt, changing target form. The fact that book targets are the most widely used in Norway may also, of course, affect students’ choice of preferred target form. For a student, there must be both a lot of will and perhaps also courage to choose a different target form than most people use. Odda municipality has good experience with language-shared classes. It points to, among others: that this contributes to an increased awareness of the use of neuron, and that it also has educational advantages. Odda has for a long time – I’ve read: 100 years – arranged for students to be able to participate in language-shared classes in Norwegian as well as in youth. And there are other municipalities that do the same thing. I would like to make it clear that I think it is positive with such local initiatives that are based on the specificities and needs of the individual municipality, but I am in doubt, I have to admit, whether this should be a national scheme. There are many good measures taken within the local action room in the municipalities. I think it's both right and important that it is. It's not always what suits one municipality, it suits everyone. The Odda model has e.g. some economic aspects which allow municipalities to see differently how well this model fits. I believe that we need an even better decision-making basis, and I have already informed the Storting that I am going to make an assessment that highlights the economic and administrative consequences of such a system. I will also, as Stortinget asks, look at any other arrangements and devices. In this way, I will help to give us and any other municipalities a better basis for assessment in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1979	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1985	I listen to the article by the Council of State where he pointed out that the right to join a specific target group could be one of many different measures, and there may be different needs in different municipalities. In Odda they have quite many years of experience in this, and they also have a very good statistics on change of goals, that there is no change of goals, nor when they move to further education. When Odda unfortunately saw himself forced not to pass it on, it wasn't because they didn't think it was a good idea, but because they didn't have money. My question to the Council of State is, in fact, two brief: When will the Council of State bring a case to the Grand Government, will it happen before the summer? If it is not to become a right, does the Council of State see that one must at least be able to get the means of discretion to such a system as has been practiced in Odda?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1990	First, as far as time is concerned, I have said in my reply to the Stortinget that the study on the economic and administrative aspects of this scheme will be working with me and the Department during the spring of 2017, and we will come back to it appropriately. With regard to this point of economics, I do not know in detail the municipal economy in Odda, but in the municipal economy as a whole there have been no major fluctuations from the last red-green years to the years of this government. There has also been a good portion of free money for the municipalities, but as I said, I do not know the municipality budget in detail in Odda. When it comes to the assessment of a kind of beauties, I believe that when the Storting promises such a thing by such a large majority, it would be foolish to close some doors at this moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e1999	For Odda Municipality it has been a struggle for many years to make that promise. It hasn't happened just now, but it was now finally closed. But it shows that giving this right to the youth ball has some economic consequences for the municipalities. I don't think they're very big when you look at what the action can prevent, and language policy must also have some economic consequences out there. In this setting, Telemark, which is a state council, is shown where a large target change occurs. I do not see what the Council of State will do to prevent language change, except what has been debated today, because the Council of State is very concerned that what is happening out there is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2006	One of the reasons I like the approach angle in this case is that I think it goes to the heart of what you have to do to maintain two types of goals in Norway. I think the representative is quite right in saying that the most important issue is the exchange of views. We know that there are very few people who are switching the other way, from book goals to new ones. Regardless of the fact that you have tried for many, many decades, even longer than that, with cross-sectional education, there is almost no substitute. If you're going to be able to maintain your new nostrils, you're going to have to prevent your target shifting. As I said in my post, that's what Odda has done, good and a wise way to do it, and it works as well. And then there's another question whether that means that we're going to change the rules overall nationally. There will also be a question of, for example: the ability of municipalities to organise and have a certain freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2011	When national politicians are attached to being municipal, there is usually either fear of having to pay for it if it is to become national, or there must be a fundamental assessment that this is precisely a type of issue that is best suited to local decision-making. At that point, I would like to challenge the Council of State, which is a politician who is concerned with principles. What we're talking about here, to a large extent, are rights to what in many of these peripheral communities becomes a linguistic minority. If there is one thing that we often agree on that we need national rules, it is precisely to guarantee minority rights – knowing that it can be tempting for a municipality such as the Netherlands. have a book-keeping majority, not to give priority to a predatory system, for example. neo-Nurse classes at secondary school. Is there not a fundamental consideration that the Council of State should consider in greater detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2022	This is not at all a bad principle consideration from the representative Lysbakken. That is a reason why we have clear national leadership for language and language policy. So here's the question of whether we're going to take another step further in national leadership and say that it's going to apply also in high school, and that it's going to apply to everyone. It is a question which, in itself, the Stortinge asks in its decision, namely whether there are other ways of thinking that the exchange of targets is being prevented or combated. The reason why I am generally skeptical is that there are no parties – at least very few parties and politicians – who say they want to step by step to deprive the municipalities of more and more autonomy and more freedom. But we see that the pressure is there to say all things, and since I basically believe that Norway should be a country where in some important matters it is possible for municipalities to choose different solutions, I also use that argument in a case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2027	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2032	This case is an important milestone for newnorms and to promote a society where young people can use, learn and acquire knowledge in their own way. It is very positive that a single cluster supports the proposal to address changes to training laws and other measures. One should believe that it is quite obvious that novice students must have the same right to training in their main goal as bookwork was in practice today. Adolescence is a time for many changes in the lives of young people. These years provide an important basis for life, in youth and in adult life. Language is identity. Nynorsk is identity. And those who change from nynostic to bookmaking in the youth ball, as it has been said here, rarely go back again. They change their target form, and for many, too, maybe a little bit of their own identity. The fact that neonates have only been entitled to neo-Norwegian training for seven out of ten years has made them more vulnerable and have increased the pressure on students to change. In 2011, the current Prime Minister Solberg, in a VG interview before the national meeting, opens to the Right to remove written page targets even in the youth sphere. The proposal was supported by the current Minister of Culture Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, and the proposal was adopted. I hope that today's Minister of Knowledge, from the Right, through the work he has now promised to do, will show that the Right also has another side, that the Right will not only remove the new and the written side measure from both the youth school and the secondary school, but that he will also do a thorough, positive and good job for the new one. Arne Hjeltne's statement about the same national meeting that fighting for the news in Right was like fighting for the expanded time of the Christian People's Party. It was now, but I sincerely hope that the Right can also be involved in this matter, and not only when this proposal applies today, but also when a decision is to be taken that will actually make this reality. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, the new Norway is strong. But even there is, of course, the bookmaking press in place – in the media and in the public conversation. There are some people who think that neuron is too hard to learn. That's easy to say. At least the solution must not be to remove it. We're not removing third degree equations from mathematics, even if it's hard. We're spending more time on it, and we're teaching kids how to solve problems. I also believe that newcomers will improve the ability of young people to learn, overall. That must be the goal of the school – that young people should learn and become useful people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2051	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2067	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2078	The representative's proposal from Rasmus Hansson to turn a new campus for NTNU into a spearhead for sustainability solutions has been discussed in the committee, and as the case-law rapporteur, I would like to thank you for good cooperation. The proposal to make the new NTNU campus a spearhead for sustainability solutions has good intentions. An overall committee refers to the government’s decision in August 2015 on a common campus for NTNU on the Glaushaugen in Trondheim, which should be a so-called city campus. This is a major state building project that offers great opportunities to develop solutions for construction, transport and other infrastructure that can make important new contributions to a green transition. Following the merger with the universities of Ålesund, Gjøvik and Sørd-Trøndelag, NTNU is now Norway's largest university, and the university already has many excellent research environments that can help to develop new and more sustainable solutions for future buildings and areas. The fact that Trøndelag has a unique research environment in the field of the environment and technology is important in this context. NTNU, SINTEF and others are world-class in several technological research areas and have the will and ability to be both innovative and international. Here, in the Progress Party, we will also bring forward the ambitious project Hell Arena, which is now underway, where it is, among other things. shall be researched on the storage of ground solar and wind energy, the testing of intelligent driving systems with autonomous vehicles without driver, and research on road safety and new transport technologies. With such a cluster of technology and environmental expertise that Trondelag now has and will further develop, it is therefore natural to have environmental ambitions for Campus NTNU. As a representative of Trøndelag, I would like to point out that NTNU already has a clear environmental ambition for its activities, and the University has its own professional expertise in the field of the environment to be used to find the best and most sustainable solutions for the project Campus NTNU. The overall environmental objective for NTNU is as follows: ‘NTNU shall be a preparatory university using knowledge from research in its own practice to ensure a consistent environmental performance. This means that we will have a full overview of the environmental impact of the activities and make this visible to employees, students and the outside world. NTNU shall at all times have clear objectives for reducing the impact on the environment.» This is a good ambition that it is natural that NTNU has, and that I trust that they are serious about. In this context, the Progress Party will point out that Norway needs large and heavy research environments free of ties to different interest groups and industries. This is ensured by having universities that are truly free institutions with great freedom to distribute funds themselves, without too many political leaders. Just in this situation Norway is now, with an increasing need for change, innovation and future value creation, we believe that the most effective thing is to give researchers and academics maximum freedom to research and work independently. We also have confidence that NTNU itself is the best one to decide how to follow up their own overall environmental objective. The Progress Party believes that the expertise in the NTNU and in other disciplines has far greater competence and expertise than that in this Chamber, and believes that they themselves will be best able to determine how to develop and build efficient, rational and environmentally friendly construction and campus. Trøndelag will meet for an exciting time, where the development of NTNU's new campus will be a strategic tool to ensure NTNU's professional ambitions and further develop excellent education, research, innovation and dissemination for future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2100	The proposal promoted by the representative Rasmus Hansson is constructive. When we're going to develop a new campus for NTNU, there's not only questions about finding good building and economic solutions, there's also questions about how we make it a project that develops the country's largest university and our leading natural sciences environment. We just have to think that what benefits the NTNU environment will also benefit society in total. The NTNU campus must be a city campus, as it is called in the plans. It doesn't necessarily mean that there has to be a concentrated building mass with everything on the same site. NTNU must still be present in the city centre. However, the new university and higher education area should be an example of a building project that takes into account good internal infrastructure, good urban development that benefits the whole of Trondheim – not just the university and higher education community – and where both the building stock and the infrastructure meet high environmental requirements. I believe that the majority of the committee's proposals are in line with the intentions of the draft representative. The centre party is part of a majority that asks the government to facilitate the development of the new NTNU campus with ambitious environmental solutions. We assume that it's going to mean a building mass that produces more energy than it uses. Furthermore, we assume that it will be added to non-emission transport solutions and other infrastructures that stimulate both new research and new jobs. The trombone layer region has a lot to offer for the low-emission society. Our large natural areas become important in the green shift. In my understanding, the most important thing about the green shift is that we get a switch from fossil to renewable energy. We have large areas of wind power and high sea power potential, and not least we have large forest areas at our disposal for the development of renewable solutions, both as raw material for environmentally friendly transport and – not least – as environmentally friendly building materials. Earlier this year, the Stortinget discussed a central party proposal on the planning of a new government quarter. There we, together with the Workers' Party and SV, promoted a proposal in which we asked the government to consider how the construction of a new government quarter can be used to show and promote the use of wood. Norway has long traditions of wood processing, we have rich access to forests and high technical skills that give us a distinct advantage in the wood industry. Business opportunities related to the green shift and the bioeconomy are at an early stage, and we need large and innovative projects. The new campus on NTNU should become such a project. It must be developed with ambitious environmental solutions, where the use of wood as construction material must be one of the prerequisites. On the part of the Centre Party, we see the development of NTNU as a great opportunity to connect State Buildings, the architectural environments, the entrepreneurial environments and the research environments of NTNU together in research and development of new solutions for the use of wood to promote a more environmentally friendly building mass. This possibility must not be left to those responsible for the development of the new university campus in Trondheim. I'm, like, as a Southerner, happy that we're in front of the realization of a new campus on NTNU. It is important for the country's largest and – at least we think – the country's most important university and research environment. I am also, as I said at the outset, pleased with the proposal for a representative, which gives the Storting the opportunity to give good leadership on how to develop and how we can achieve impacts that affect the whole of society. New campus in Trondheim must become a development project for environmentally friendly building practices and urban development that benefits the whole country. It's a role that we throngers find it quite natural to assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2121	As the third southern runner in the committee, I can join in what has been said about this being an important matter, and that there is an enormous opportunity to develop a new and exciting campus. The Rasmus Hansson proposal is constructive and good. When such a large expansion is to be made in what becomes an exhibition window for knowledge and research, it is a brilliant idea to make it a spear for sustainability solutions. I hope that can also happen in collaboration with the research communities at the institution. We have some of the most excellent researchers in different fields that can be relevant for this construction project – not only on energy savings and that kind of thing, but also on material technology and much more. So I'm glad that a broad majority of the committee has joined. When creating such a new campus, there is also an excellent opportunity to create future solutions for education and research, so that, when we are going to raise this huge project, we think about how the future work will be – in a digital age where students may not sit in a lecture hall and listen to lecturers, but perhaps work in a completely different and more flexible way – closely related to environmental issues, transport, building mass, etc., but also to the educational base. It'll be a very important thing. It's also going to be a big promise to fund this campus. Finding good solutions between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Knowledge, for example: the disposal of the property held by NTNU becomes an important part of such a solution. I am pleased that we have gathered on this, and I would like to correct the previous speech, saying that it is not just us trotters who believe that NTNU is the country's foremost, they believe it at least both in Gjøvik and in Ålesund – so this is about to spread.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2134	NTNU has become our largest university after the merger process. A new construction project and a city campus on Glöshaugen will renew the entire NTNU and set a standard for decades to come. It will affect not only the university area, but the whole Trondheim, and it will also affect the rest of the country. A new campus will provide space and space for students, researchers and staff alike. It will link new disciplines and, in particular, a new campus could provide opportunities for interaction between universities and external actors. With the size of NTNU as a place of work and study, new buildings there will have an important signal effect. And with the natural science and technology profile NTNU has, it would seem to me to be inconceivable if this were not to be a campus where environment and sustainable solutions would be at the center. NTNU also aims to become an important supplier to the green shift on both the research and education sides. They themselves say that NTNU should be a preparatory university that uses knowledge from research in its own practice to ensure consistent environmental protection activities. This means that they want a full overview of the environmental impact of NTNU and that they will make it visible to employees, students and the outside world. And they will have clear targets for how to reduce the impact on the environment. That is why I very much expect NTNU, in cooperation with the Department, to ensure that they achieve their environmental objectives in terms of new campuses. The majority in the Committee have pointed out some objectives we believe it is important to focus on. The right supports the position of the majority in the case and asks the government to facilitate the development of the new NTNU campus with ambitious objectives, as recommended by the Committee. As a model, a minority in the Committee has pointed to the so-called ‘living labs’. Whether this model is the best solution, we believe in the Right must be decided on a professional basis and not politically. That is why we do not want to include in this decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2149	No matter where we are in the country, I think we all agree that, in addition to being Norway's largest university, NTNU is one of the most offensive and forward-looking educational and research environments in the country. We have a lot of construction projects around the whole country, but what makes the new NTNU campus a great opportunity that we can't let go of is that it's on NTNU. Just the big construction project that can then be realized so closely together with the research, the innovation and the development that is taking place at NTNU is what makes us now have a unique opportunity to put sustainability, environment and technology at the forefront when we are about to develop the new campus on NTNU. I want to express very clearly that this is not something that the government can do on its own, or that NTNU just should outsource like any construction project. The very point must be that one can link the competence that this institution already holds to the construction project, both because we then achieve sustainable, forward-looking and environmentally friendly solutions, and because the process to be implemented can be important for research purposes and for development and innovation purposes. Letting this chance go away would be very bad. That is why I am pleased that, although there are two proposals, we very much agree on the intention. In any case, the left wants to vote subsidiaryly in favour of the majority's proposal for a decision, if the proposal that we ourselves, together with the SV, stand behind, does not get a majority. At least I'm addressing the proposal from the Left and the SV now. I am pleased that the majority is so offensive, and look forward to us starting this process. We know it's going to cost money, we know it's a big project, but that NTNU is so clear and forward-looking on what they want to achieve with this, I think it's just positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2162	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2167	Thanks to the rapporteur and the committee, who have reached a good, unanimous decision to support the proposal to turn NTNU's new campus into a green spearhead to develop new green solutions. Nothing can be more obvious, it's on NTNU that should happen. For an old pre-NTNUs like me, it's very nice to agree to this decision. We are very pleased that the decision expresses very clear ambitions, and not least that the Storting is quite concrete and clear that the building mass that is now to be established is going to produce more energy than it uses. There is a lead that draws a lot with regard to development and innovation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Presidency of the municipality of Trondheim, which has given very clear support to this project, and the municipality of Trondheim, which has worked well to facilitate the development of this national institution. This isn't just an environmental label day, it's a research policy label day. To choose to make the site, the building mass and the campus – which will make future research and education in the entire NTNU professional spectrum – a laboratory itself, is a very useful decision and a very reasonable exploitation of the resources to be used in this project. This will provide a boost for NTNU, giving rise to the development of sustainable building solutions and site solutions in Norway. Of course, we are going to follow this case carefully – not least the fact that these types of ambitions also require willingness to invest. And it takes one more thing: developing sustainable building solutions is not just providing positive energy solutions and efficient energy solutions, it's a lot more. It is to ensure that both material production, construction process, organisation, reuse, alterations and repairs can take place in a way that not only reduces greenhouse gas emissions but eliminates waste and is based on recycling and efficient reuse. So it's the whole thing that's important, not just the carbons and the climate. Flexibility in the case of established standard requirements, which are partly the driver of old-fashioned and emission-intensive solutions, is an important keyword here. I hope that the authorities involved, with the research minister at the head, will be aware of the need to look at the underlying standard building requirements in order to obtain the necessary flexibility in this project. In our representative proposal, we highlighted the potential for ring-effects of this project and for workplaces in Norway by investing in the use of Norwegian materials and recyclable materials. We hope that this will be emphasised, because this is an opportunity to lift the Norwegian construction industry in all areas. Finally, as several have already recalled, this should also become a standard for the development of the government quarter, where it has been a little too heavy to bring the government on a level of ambition as difficult as the government quarter development is. Also there should be the same level of ambition as what we are now putting for NTNU. Also in the government quarter we have to make sure that the standard gets so high and so groundbreaking that it is a quarter and a building mass that will appear as modern and forward-looking also in 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2186	Iselin Nybø has actually presented well the joint proposal put forward by SV and Left, which goes further than the rest of the committee. But for the sake of order, I just thought I should report that SV will also vote subsidiaryly for the majority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2191	According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, buildings account for approx. 19 pst. of all global greenhouse gas emissions. To achieve the climate objectives, we therefore need to focus more on reducing the use of energy in buildings. New buildings for universities and colleges must be energy efficient. In addition, it is important to reduce the energy use of buildings used by institutions today. Energy-efficient construction is a priority area at NTNU, and the use of energy at the university is reduced by 17 pst. since 2010. It's a very positive development, given that the university has got more students and more employees in the same period. There are clear expectations that NTNU will continue its work and that the development of the campus will contribute to lower energy use overall. NTNU has great ambitions as an institution for its contribution to a green shift. In meeting the major societal challenges, the University takes advantage of its main technical and natural sciences profile, professional breadth and multidisciplinary competence. NTNU has the ambition to be a university of excellence using knowledge from research to ensure a consistent environmental performance. In the vision report ‘NTNU 2060 Visions for Campus Development’, the University has drawn up broad lines of environmental ambition. The vision is a building mass that is combined at zero energy level. The University develops knowledge that is essential for successful green migration through education and research. Study programmes and courses in, inter alia: energy and environment, environmental analysis, construction and environmental engineering, environmental chemistry, biology, urban design and planning contribute to basic knowledge of sustainable development. The University has internationally recognised research environments dealing with environmental and sustainability issues. NTNU is among others: hosting four eco-energy research centres and partners in a further ten. These are long-term research efforts at a high international level to address energy and climate challenges. Technological, social and humanistic disciplines interact through these centres to develop sustainable solutions. NTNU is in collaboration with the Ministry of Knowledge to plan for the realization of campus collections in the area around Glashaugen. NTNU will draw on the competence of its own professional environments in the planning process. No environmental objectives or requirements have been set for the project because planning is in an early stage. But NTNU has ambitions for a future-oriented and green campus. The university wants to move the knowledge front in Norway and use its own campus as the research arena, as more representatives have requested. NTNU will use the campus project to test solutions and use new knowledge in construction, energy and sustainability. The Ministry of Knowledge and the NTNU aim to ensure that campus development becomes a target area in the university's development agreement with the Ministry. That agreement will enter into force from 2017. The Ministry of Knowledge has clear requirements for the project in terms of efficient and flexible buildings. Flexible areas that can be adapted to changing needs over time will be an investment in reduced operating costs in the long term. A more flexible building stock, more efficient use and energy-efficient areas as well as other measures will be part of the environmental assessments made for the project. The collection of professional environments around Glashaugen is also, in itself, an environmental measure contributing to reduced CO 2 emissions through shorter distances and easier access to public transport. Zero-emission buildings or plus-houses require cost frameworks to facilitate this. Preliminary estimates show that environmental measures involving zero emissions can be 10-15 pst. in increased costs on the campus project cost framework. The planning of the NTNU campus is still at an early stage and, therefore, the focus on sustainable action needs to be assessed in a comprehensive way, in the context of the ambitions for climate change emissions, technological and environmental developments and socio-economic profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2228	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2237	I refer to Innst. 64 S for 2016-2017 on the proposal for a representative of the representatives of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Jenny Klinge and Kjersti Toppe to amend the rules on absenteeism in secondary school. I would first of all like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The proposers promote three concrete proposals: They ask the government to amend the regulation of the training law that regulates the amount of unjustified absence that students may have by giving the school owner the authority to exercise discretion on a case-by-case basis. They propose to amend the regulation to allow prospective and qualified students to submit their own notifications in case of sick leave and to apply as valid documentation. They propose that driving training which must take place at school should be defined as a valid absence. The discussion of a national legislation on absenteeism in secondary schools has been ongoing ever since the Council of State notified the introduction of such a legislation, as early as 2014. The proposal was sent to the hearing and a final proposal for a regulation was submitted by the Council of State. This regulation was further debated in Stortinget as a result of a proposal for a representative, Document 8:86 for 2015-2016, which resulted in regulatory adjustments, but at the same time concluded that a national limit of 10 pst was to be introduced. and with discretion up to 15 pst. in the individual subject. The Committee draws attention to the comments and proposals made in its opinion on the absence limit before summer. So this is not a new case, and there are well-known positions in the view of the outside border. The Committee nevertheless agrees that too high school leave is problematic for several reasons. There is a clear link between high absences and who completes high school. In addition, a high level of absence in each class will slow the progress of each subject because part of the teaching needs to be repeated. It is therefore very gratifying that the figures so far produced, both in the media and by the ministry itself, show that high school absences have fallen considerably since the introduction of national legislation. This is a clear indication that attendance requirements also allow more students to attend. The members of the Committee will certainly make a good account of their views on this matter, so I will now clarify what is the Right’s position on the proposals that are being promoted. First of all, regardless of the legal position at the outset, we believe it is right now to allow the legislation to function in school, rather than new fights and changes only a few months into the working time of the regulation. The good results in the case of falling absences are also a positive indication that the legislation should be effective. So there was a system of increased use of discretion, from 10 pst. to 15 pst. This is a discretion that individual schools can show. Finally, the question of self-notification: From the Right we see the 10 pst. limit as just time for self-notification. That's just over 10 pst. absence in each subject that students have to document why they have been away. The proposal to make driving training a valid absence is not correct – mainly because driving training has never been a valid absence. This would therefore also mean liberalisation compared to the previous legislation. Of course, taking a certificate is important for many students, but it is not important to consider it to be a valid absence. Taking a certificate is something you do once in a lifetime, it's very limited in time, and those who provide this service are private actors who also get paid well. Therefore, we believe that they should adapt driving training to before and after school time, as well as to any mid-hours and free minutes — possibly students can take driving training within the 10 hours limit they currently have. It's voluntary to go to high school. It's a right, but it's not an obligation. We use as a society a place between $100,000 and $200,000 per student. Teachers and school staff prepare and provide good free teaching to students, who have chosen to make use of the offer on a voluntary basis. In the view of the Right, it is also reasonable to require participation in the course of which you have voluntarily chosen to take advantage. The Ministry has announced that they will follow developments closely and make necessary adjustments. But another adjustment and rematch from Stortinget's side on a code that has been working for only a few months will, in our view, only cause confusion in school over the predictability the school itself has asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2287	The working party is for us to have clear rules against invalid absences, and for us to have expectations that the students will be at school. When, in June, the Stortinge examined a proposal for a representative to lift the ban on absenteeism, the majority clearly stated that the model that the government had presented was too rigid and feared that the consequence could be more non-response. The Minister of Knowledge was then given the task of talking to the sector and proposing a new regulatory framework. The working party believes that an absence limit, together with other measures, can be a proper tool to reduce unwanted absences. The assumption is that it is properly designed and addresses all absenteeism, along with other measures. The legislation that is now being practised in school is the government’s second attempt to establish a working absenteeism. For the Workers' Party, it is too early to conclude as far as the legislation is concerned, three months into the school year. It makes sense to let the prescription work for a while before finally concluding on how it has worked at school. However, we have noticed many of the clear feedback that has come. School leaders, teachers, students and county politicians have reported practical challenges with borders, such as the greater likelihood of getting ‘not assessed’ in small subjects such as gym, school and teacher workloads and increased pressure on permanent staff across the country. These are relationships that can improve, but which we absolutely have to take seriously. The Storting said in June that the absence limit should be accompanied by follow-up research and evaluated after three years. If we get more clear feedback and examples that this limit is difficult to practice in School-Norway and gives unfair results, the Workers' Party believes it makes sense to speed up an evaluation. A government does not have to wait three years for a review of such a regulation, especially if it turns out that more students have fallen away from the end of the school year. Many schools and counties now report lower absenteeism. If it is true, it is positive. At the same time, there are examples that in many states many alerts have been sent out. In Rogaland, more than 4000 notifications have been sent to students about ‘not rated’ in the subject. And we don't know yet if the final result is that more students are dropping out. If so, the answer may not be to wait another two years. It's up to the Council of State and the government to design and enforce the regulation. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge to follow the situation, to have dialogue with the sector and to make any necessary changes or adaptations to the regulation if necessary. This is why the Labour Party proposes in this case that ‘The government asks the government to assess changes to the rules on absence in secondary education in the light of experience with the absence limit so far’ – and there are several factors that we believe should be considered. I bring this to the attention of the Labour Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2306	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2312	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the thorough review and presentation of the matter. Regulation on the national border for undocumented absences was introduced from this school year onwards. The absence rule has been discussed for a long time and thoroughly. The outcome of the hearing on the case showed that of the 357 responses, 70 were received. support for the introduction of an absence limit. Among these hearing replies was great support from the teachers and schools who had sent direct hearing replies. Nearly nine out of ten teachers and seven out of ten schools that spoke out supported the introduction of an absence limit. This shows that there is a great deal of consensus that there was a need for clearer legislation than what was. Another example is what Norsk Lektorlag refers to on its websites. It is that relatively many professionals with the old legislation felt pressured to put positions on students even though they thought they did not have a good enough basis for doing so. By maintaining the new regulatory framework with the upper limit of undocumented absence, we avoid eroding legislation, and that there will be different treatment for students, as in the example I just mentioned, where teachers felt pressured to set grades without having any basis for doing so. The Progress Party believes that it is positive that the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Centre, together with the Progress Party, agreed that there were good reasons to introduce a national limit on absence. It is important that students learn that attendance is important. Students have an independent duty to do the best out of school, both for themselves, the class environment, the teacher and the parents and the rest of society. Students must learn to make reasonable choices and that choices have consequences. The rules of absence contribute to this, we believe. In recent years, absenteeism has increased in every secondary school in Oslo. On average, every student in Oslo school was gone for a whole month of the school year. The percentage of absenteeism has been over 10, but now we get a message from schools around the country that absence has fallen significantly since the introduction of the rules. We therefore look forward to evaluating the scheme when it has worked for some time. So far it seems that the rule works after the intention, and it's joyous. Sometimes it sounds like it's not allowed to be away from school. I just have to stress that there is undocumented absence on which it is turned down. Sickness, political work and a number of other things are still legal. The tightening of the rules of absence goes beyond those who cheat, it does not affect those who have documented absences. While stricter legislation is in place, alerting parents to absences if the student is not authoritative has also become a topical issue. The introduction of a clear threshold of absenteeism can also be an advantage for students who are struggling and having problems, by making the school more closer to the student. The absence threshold means that the school now needs to take students’ absences more seriously by early contacting students to find out why they are away from school and together find out what needs to be done to enable the student to complete his or her education. We in the Progress Party will also underline the importance of both clear rules and a certain judgement for the Vice-Chancellors regarding the practice of the absence rule. This is ensured in the regulations by the principal assessing whether the student should be assessed even if he/she has had 15 pst. absence. The absence limit will be followed up by research and evaluated after three years, in line with the Stortingen’s request. The Progress Party also has confidence that the government is closely monitoring both the ongoing development and the way schools practice the new legislation. Until a good evaluation has been carried out, we will be careful to deal too much with the regulations introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2335	In the autumn, we have been able to read on several issues in the media that the figures suggest that the new rules of absence in high school have led to better attendance and lower absenteeism. That in itself is obviously positive. But we've also read a lot of things in the media about regulars who have to spend a lot of their time documenting the absence of students, instead of helping people who actually need medical help. We have read about nurses who experience that time is eaten up by students who need documentation about their absence. And we've read about the Minister of Knowledge, who says that's not the way it should be, while at the same time he's insisting on maintaining the border of absence. We've also read about the government's reasoning that you don't have to document your absence from the first hour, because that's a limit of 10 pst. It's about that. But I have to say that I have a great deal of understanding that the students feel the need to document their absence from the first minute, when the threat of losing their judgment and character in the subject is hanging over them. We have also read about all the letters of alert that have now been sent out, and about teachers who had to write 'not rating' on the first students many weeks ago, although the teacher might have had the basis to assess the student's competence. It would not surprise me much if we could soon also read about the students who have chosen to drop out and quit school because they lost their right to assessment in one or more subjects, and thus also the motivation to continue attending school. Then the consequences of the absence limit are no longer positive, but on the contrary negative. The Christian People's Party wants an absence code in school. We believe that when we give young people a right to secondary education, we should also expect them to be present and present at the time of schooling. But we don't want a regulation where the teacher doesn't have the ability to give students the assessment and character of the subject if the absence exceeds a certain limit. It becomes too rigid, and it can work against its purpose. There are so many different reasons why some students have a high level of absence during periods, and we have to try to motivate the students to come to school and be present, not frighten them to it. As the representative from the Change Factory said during the hearing, we have to make sure that the school becomes a place where it is safe to be, not a place where it is scary to be away from. Then the Christian People's Party acknowledges that there is a majority in the Storting to maintain the rules of absence that are now in force. However, I would like to thank the proposers for making some proposals in the document that can contribute to some more flexibility in this legislation. Christian People's Party will support two of these proposals, but proposal No. 3, which deals with the approval of driving training as a reason for absence, we will not support it. Driving training has never been part of advanced training and is not at present. However, for professionals who need a certificate when learning, we believe that it should also be possible to accept this type of absence when choosing to exercise discretion in assessing whether or not the student should be assessed on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2350	Should the representative address the proposals No. 2 and 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2355	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2360	Then the representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the proposals No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2368	The introduction of a national border of absence this autumn has created uncertainty, additional work and different practices among pupils, school owners, medical clinics and parents. Examples from many schools and large attendances at fixed doctors show that the absence limit as established by the government has had unintended and unfortunate consequences. That is why we have promoted this proposal. During the harvest, students have streamed to their prescribers to obtain a medical certificate for disease that does not require treatment. This means that valuable time for doctors is not spent on patients who really need it. It is natural for students to think that they want evidence of absence from day one, in case something unexpected should occur later during the year. It's called being the leader was. Being the leader was also the intent of the Centre Party with this proposal. We want to correct obvious errors in the legislation the government has introduced, now that we already see them. That's why it's wise to deal with the code. The centre lot records that the absence has been reported to have fallen after the entry into force of the new legislation. Of course it does. But it can't be used as a phase that the system works according to purpose, because it wasn't the government's intention that students go to school with fever when they obviously don't have anything to do at school, for reasons of sea and their surroundings. Nor was it the government's intention that similar cases be treated differently and recorded differently, according to the practice of schools and decision-makers. Some are given a statement and others are referred to the district attorney, for example: in its own municipality far away. That's how I could still have. The centre party believes that it is natural that absenteeism rules should be applied as closely as possible to the rules of the labour market. This means that we believe that self-reporting must be acceptable when, for example: are not ill enough for medical treatment, but have influenza, migraines, etc. Then we think it makes sense to give qualified students the right to self-announce, and, for unauthorised ones, to give parents the right to document the reason for their youth's absence. The superiors are the officials of these young people. It's funny not to authorize them, as the legislation now lays down. After the government of Stortinget was asked to adjust the rules, the government has given a very narrow opening for the principal's discretion in the case from 10 to 15 p.m. absence. This means that the government is enough, and an absolute limit. On the other hand, the centre party considers that it must be for the school owner to exercise discretion in addition to this in individual cases, and also have the opportunity to set characters if absence exceeds this during a semester. There may be cases where this 15 pst rule does not apply. For example, in the hearing with the Committee, the Blue Cross showed examples of pupils who, through their help, can manage to complete high school with results. But this must be done with strong support, involvement, understanding and faith in the students, even though the absence of ordinary hours may be high. A rigid boundary must not help some students to choose ways that are undesirable for students, parents and society at large. If it stands between school and school, school is absolutely preferable. In addition, the Centre Party believes that it must be up to the school owner to include parts of the driving training into the category of valid absence. This applies in particular to professionals who in many cases will need driving licences when they become apprentices, but it may also apply to students who are resident in the districts where driving training takes place on the basis of the school. We believe that the documented absence must be linked to that in the driving training that is to be considered mandatory. Training hours must be out of school. The centre party would have preferred that we had not needed a national legislation on absence, but we have nevertheless chosen to go in to try this out and evaluate it after three years. However, we believe that the undesirable effects we are already experiencing need to be changed now and not later. It can be of great importance to the students. Then we can't go shopping. In this setting, you can refer to the column where a number of alarm messages have already been sent. In Rogaland, which has been mentioned earlier, 3,000 letters of alert have been sent to students who are at risk of losing half-yearly peer-review in higher education. If the enforcement of a national absenteeism regulation is too strict, we are at risk of contributing to more non-response than we have today. That's not desirable, so we have to be flexible and ready to make changes quickly when we see that it turns out unlucky. In the setting SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting two proposals together with the Center Party. Since the Workers' Party promotes a similar proposal, but asks the government to ‘estimate changes’, I expect – at least hope – that the Workers' Party can support the proposals No. 2 and No 3, from these batches, so that there are actually changes in judgement, and that it is allowed to deliver self-declaration. If there is a majority in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, it means, in principle, that we follow the government's recipe, and that changes do not come until the government finds it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2391	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2396	Yes, I do. I'm addressing proposal No. Four from the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2401	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2406	I believe that the rules of absence must be the political matter that occupies students in high school most of the day. I have been on several school visits lately and prepared to talk about the principle of power distribution and complicated questions about cabinet issues, etc., but all it boils down to is the issue of the absence regulation. We've seen some positive consequences of this regulation, it's not to stick under the chair. That students actually meet up to hours is good for the class, which is then the same class every hour, but not least it's good for the teachers, who then stand there and feel they can go on because they don't have to repeat everything because people weren't there in the last hour, etc. So it's clear that there's been a marked change. At the same time, there are some negative consequences that we can't put under the chair either. We know that many alerts have been sent out, and that many are in danger of not getting an assessment. Of course, it worries the students themselves, but not least the schools and the school owners. What I'm most concerned about, and the left is most concerned about, are – not these who cheat, or who are constantly at the limit of whether they can get an assessment or not – those who struggle to get to school. They're the ones that have challenges, and they're the ones we're seeing now, they're the ones that we're not sure how to get through high school. We'll get an answer to that when we get an evaluation, but what really concerns me is whether this limit of absence helps the most resource-intensive students, but fails the weakest. I'll be honest to say that worries me. With regard to the questions and feedback I have received when I have been on school visits, it has been about the fact that the legislation in itself could probably live with it, but they experience it as a violent rigour. They experience it as both inappropriate and not least expensive to go to the doctor each time they are ill. As they say, if you're lying and spitting, you can't go to school, but it's not very tempting to go to the doctor that day. You'd rather just let it go over and go to school once you've recovered. Then we could say yes, yes, but it could be 10 pst. undocumented absence, and the intention is to use the 10 pst. To just such things, but I have a great understanding of this, because I would have done the exact same thing myself. They feel like they have to have the 10 pst. in the back, in the event of unforeseen events, for which they cannot receive a medical certificate – you cannot have a social illness over two gymnastics hours and then sleep the third time. So they feel under pressure that they need to secure evidence of everything they can prove, in case something should happen that they can't prove, in the future. We can say that that's not how it was supposed to be, but I have a lot of understanding that that's how it feels out there. Driving training is also something that has been discussed. I fully agree with the representative Tingelstad Wøien, not least because for many of those who go to high school today, having the certificate is an essential part of getting a job afterwards. In many professions this is absolutely necessary. It is perceived as unfair or at least very rigid that you cannot also view that part as part of the training, as it is so necessary for them to have a certificate. We have also received feedback from some municipalities. Both Rogaland and Sogn and Fjordane are quite clear that they want this to be part of the grounds for exemption, because they feel that their students have difficulty adapting to driving training exclusively during leisure time. It is associated with large distances, but it is also related to a life where the car and the holding of the certificate are necessary and natural. I do not feel that this matter is a rematch. I feel that this is about adapting a code that is perceived to be too rigid. We often compare it with working life, but this is considerably more rigid than what most of us have experienced — and will experience — in business and the rest of the world. There is the possibility of self-communication. That's what the students are asking for. They're asking for a little bit more flexibility. I hope we get a majority for our proposals, which we have with the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. If not, we shall vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2425	We need a round of rules of absence now, because after a heated debate both in society, in schools and here in the United Kingdom this summer, we are beginning to see some effects. And let me be the first to say that we see both what seems to be positive effects, and what seems to be negative effects. Then the big question is, how can we take forward what are some good trends in attendance at hours, and do something about the things that there is reason to worry about? What has caused a lot of unrest in many schools is increased bureaucracy, which many teachers raise. There is a lot of frustration in the health care system, especially in the firm doctors, related to the impression that students have received and that it is not strange that they have received, nor is it strange that many people feel the need to document their absence from the first hour. So there's one side to this that we also have to take seriously, that relates to the increasing amount of pressure and stress on our young people. It is relevant, I think, to look at how the rules of absence have also been lifted by several experts in the autumn debate on how we can create a daily life that is increasingly countering mental stress and pressure among young people. At the same time, many reports from schools suggest an increased presence in the classroom. It is too early to conclude whether there will be a long-term trend, but increased attendance is itself positive. The big unknown that we still know little about is the effect of non-response. I said in connection with the absence rule being introduced, that I figured it would be effective against scabbardness, but that the reason for SV's skepticism was just a fear that we could still get an increase in non-compliance, because the absence rules when they are practiced in a rigorous manner mean that schools are in practice required to give up students, when they should actually be told clearly to follow up students. That is why I believe that the large number of alerts, 3 000 only in Rogaland, for example, many in some of the major vocational schools around the country, is a concern. If this does not happen, there will be a strong argument against the legislation that has been introduced. But there is every reason not to draw any conclusions in advance either. Nothing will be better than if it turns out that that concern is unfounded. It is important to take this discussion into account that the rules of absence became less rigid after the treatment Stortingen had this summer. I believe that what has happened afterwards has shown that it was a completely necessary direction to go in. So I still think in some respects the rules are still so rigid that even those who are hot trailers of a national border should be involved in making some decorations. There's more room for discretion in each school, and it's about the perfectly reasonable requirement that we're making to promote here, about a certain room for self-telling. I believe that it will help to reduce the pressure on health care, the danger of ill students in the classroom and the great stress that is now about an hour of undocumented absence in school. So SV is involved in promoting the proposals No. Two and three. I would like to repeat the request made by Mr Tingelstad Wøien to the Workers' Party on those proposals, because it is only by voting in favour of the proposal No. 2 and 3 that we can make sure that something happens. This is, I believe, reasonable decorations also for parties that have been for the limit of absence. SV will vote against proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I do not think it is reasonable that we should have a general opening because driving training is a valid absence from education. I don't think that's good enough reason for that, but I think, like the Christian People's Party, that there should be an access to it in special cases, such as that. the possession of a certificate is necessary in order to obtain a place of learning or an advantage in order to obtain a place of learning. But I see the proposal from the Central Party and the Left as too far, and that is why we will vote against it. Then SV will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Workers' Party, if our proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2448	There is no doubt that the border of absenteeism has created a major debate. It's also very good and very natural, because this is something that intervenes directly into the lives of many students. But I also have to mention many who are often forgotten in the discussion: those who work at school, that is, many teachers. It is good that it creates debate. When we discussed this matter in June, Stortinget asked me to draw up a new legislation on absenteeism, in dialogue with the sector. I followed that up. The parties to the sector were positive to more local discretion, as the Stortinget asked, but with the awareness and recognition that more local discretion also means that more discrimination can be allowed. It's a real balance. At the same time, the organisations considered that there had to be an upper limit to undocumented absences, and that is also in line with the signals we received when the proposal to impose an absence limit was at public consultation. The hearing bodies were then divided into the question whether an absence limit should allow for an exemption based on an individual discretionary assessment. The majority stated that they wanted a defined limit with clear exceptions. The hearing bodies pointed out that such a device is the easiest to enforce, it is predictable, and it ensures equal treatment, at least more equal treatment, of the students. The proposers say that many schools have found that the absence limit has led to uncertainty and different practices. I believe this can happen in an entry period. Keep in mind that this is a whole new regulatory framework. But we've done everything we can, both from the department and from the directorate, and also in cooperation with the organizations at school, to get information about this. On the Directorate-General for Education’s websites, we have asked questions and answers such as: The student organisation has been involved and influenced the content, although of course they do not agree that we should have an absence limit. The Health Directorate and the Education Directorate also work together to look at issues related to the very relationship between health care and school. So it's not like I'm in the department with closed blinds and closed doors and I don't want to follow what's going on out there. Rather, on the contrary, I have been very busy getting recordings, getting feedback, getting the experience from the counties, from the schools, and from the teachers on how this works and turns out in practice. It's a little bit of shared experience, but when we're in contact with the teacher's organisations, with the counties and with the heads of state education, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that the absence limit works as intended, i.e. that absence goes down. But it's quite right, as the representative Lightbaking says, we don't know if it will be a long-lasting effect, if it will last for years. And I also think that is a reason why, after just a few months, you should not make major changes to the legislation. That being said, it is not that I, as the Council of State, am married to every letter of the legislation as it is today, so adjustments may be relevant. But back to the feedback we get. The Education Association, which is the second-largest teacher organisation, has asked its chief trustees how the absence limit has worked, and they report positive change in the form of increased presence. Hedmark reports a decrease in the absence of 30 p.m. Hordaland reports less absence and that fewer than before are at risk of not getting rating with character – an interesting feedback from Hordaland! From Finnmark, feedback is that it is easier to implement planned education and to follow up students. Both More and Romesdal and Nord-Trøndelag believe that the rule has worked as intended, and that the absence has gone down a lot. This is when we ask the line path, as it's called, but they tend not to be afraid to give feedback there either. In the media, as several have mentioned, there have been many reports that the presence is increasing, and that absence is falling, and that is very good. All in all, there's reason to think that some of the situation has calmed down, that the rule is starting to become better known. We have been quick to try to correct the misinterpretation of the legislation. We've been concerned that the Education Directorate should provide good and quick information, both where there are clear rules and where there is discretion. However, I will continue to follow developments closely and continue to have close dialogue with the sector and with the teacher organisations, but also with other organisations, for example. the student organisations, and also assess, where necessary, minor regulatory adjustments, but within the principle of having a national absence limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2465	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2470	This is the major evaluation and investigation day of the Church, Education and Research Committee. It is important to listen to the experience of the schools in the field of absenteeism. What you can see is that for some students, little absence can have quite significant consequences, for example. in small subjects such as gym. A small absence that can quickly lead to a lack of judgment. In Rogaland, it is said to have been sent up to 4,000 alerts to students. What you're saying is that the schools and the counties have little chance of bringing in students who now, when you look at more schools, are over 10 pst. There is now no possibility of providing additional education, for example: in gym. There's little flexibility in retrieving students that there might be a full basis for giving them a rating. Such an option could quickly bring down the non-response statistics if this turned out to be a problem. The question is: when the Council of State says that it may be appropriate to consider changes, it will consider such a change and provide flexibility to the states, for example: to give extra hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2477	I'm not quite sure if I understood the last question. But let me comment on the problem a little bit anyway. The reason why the absenteeism limit applies in each subject, and thus is lower in the small subjects, is that then there are fewer hours, and then a logical consequence is that it is all the more important to be present in the hours that are. I think – this is an assumption – that e.g. gymnastics is one of the subjects which has gained a significantly higher presence with the new rule of absence. Then there's a misunderstanding I've noticed, and that's precisely because the students also get a half-yearly assessment and there can't be evaluated if they have over 10 pst. absence during the first half of the year is such that the absence limit as such applies to the whole year. So there's a balance. On the one hand, it is good that students receive early warning. There was something the Stortinget was concerned about – one should be able to adjust during the year. On the other hand, it can also help some students feel that they are closer to losing a character than they really are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2487	My next question is really about the small subjects, but only to clarify the previous questions for the Council of State: In some schools there are a good number of students who are already above the 10 pst. limit and are not getting an evaluation. For example, in gym, which is a small subject, it won't take much until you cross that border. If schools had had some kind of flexibility, tools and tools to be able to pick up students again by, for example, providing additional education in particular in the small subjects, such as gyms, there would be some form of discretion and flexibility that would prevent students who otherwise were fully capable of being assessed, lost their character and ended up in a case of non-compliance. The question is, when does the Council say that adjustments may be helpful — may such changes be relevant? How long, if any, do you have to wait? When may it be appropriate for the Council of State to make changes to the absence regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2494	As far as time is concerned, I think the representative Henriksen had a good reason, namely that this is a new regulation. Now you have to see how it works. We're collecting all of these recordings. I am a little skeptical about the assessment, or the proposal, made by Mr Henriksen. I haven't heard it before. The reason why that is that I think it's a little bit important for the students to know in advance what they're dealing with, that they have a yearly metal, and that it's 10 pst. or 15 pst, if applicable. of it. Then it is very important to stress that even if you were not to be judged for Christmas, that doesn't mean that you have necessarily exceeded the limit of absence. The absence limit applies to the whole year. It is also the case that students have the opportunity and the right to document absences until the end of the book, i.e. before taking a stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2501	I just want to stress that this is not a rematch for the Center Party, because we were actually one of the parties that was on a note where we said we wanted to try out national rules. What we want is that if we're going to have national rules, they need to be adapted so that they work, otherwise we can risk next time that we don't have national rules, and that we go back. So our intention is to adapt the rules in a good way. The councils were concerned to say that he had been in close cooperation with the sector and interrogated with them. I believe that. What I did not hear the Council of State mention is the extra work that this has done for the medical profession. I know that after the introduction of the absence rule, the Council of State has been in contact with the medical profession. I have to ask the Council of State: does he think it's going to be that way that it's okay that we apply an increased bureaucracy to the doctor, because we're actually doing that, as it is today? I wonder why we can't change this now, when we already see that it has to be reasonable with, for example. self-announcements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2508	As I mentioned in my article, the Education Directorate and the Health Directorate have sat together to look at some of the issues that have emerged around, for example. the stipulations. So it's also important to say that neither do we have fixed numbers there. But as I understand it, the Medical Association is going to try to get something a little bit more firm on the table. We can't base an evaluation or review just on the fact that somewhere it's lookup. In the same way – I admit – I have to say that in connection with all the positive statements that come, we also have to have ice cream in our stomachs and say that it is not the final fasit. We need to see what progress is being made, even though there is a lot of evidence that this works as intended, in the sense that it becomes more presence. In the case of self-communications, it is one of the things that the teacher organisations that support an absence limit have been very sceptical about. I'll share it. This is due, inter alia, to: Two things. First of all, there's a lot of powerful high school students. Secondly, it becomes easy for the burden, or assessment of this message, to remain on the individual teacher or school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2517	I think it might be a little funny, I have to admit it. If there's a lot of eligible students in a school, they're over 18, and then they're pretty much in their last year at school. In fact, in the first two years, we have to trust that the parents are legitimate people and can decide this and write a message on behalf of their child. That's not what I was going to ask about, but I just had to comment on it. What's the challenge is especially about the doctors, and I'm glad that the council wants to go into it more closely and look at what kind of stress doctors have gotten. I know that in some places the doctors say that you don't need a doctor's statement, because you can have a 10 pst absence. In other places, one says that one has to go to his place of work, and when the student lives on the furniture, he may have to spend a whole day getting a doctor's statement. I have to ask the Council of State the following question: Does he think that the parents are not good enough officials for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2526	I absolutely believe that parents are good enough authorities for their children, but I believe that when we are going to make an absence code in high school, we must first take into account all the students who are there, including the different ages. The second is that I think it's a neat regulation to have a distinction between documented and undocumented absences, and that you have a kind of third-party documenting in most cases. The third is: the centre party also does not suggest that you have full self-announcement. You suggest some self-announcement days, and I'm very afraid that it will make the system even more difficult to understand for some students. The fourth is, as was also mentioned in the debate here, that the 10 p.m. border – I don't want to say that it's like self-communication days – is there precisely because there may be good reasons why you're away from school, without necessarily being able to prove it, or that you have to document it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2537	I support the assessment by the Council of State regarding the proposal to allow driving training to be an approved reason for absence. At the same time, part of those required to learn as apprentices are expected to have a certificate. It's necessary for some of them to be able to do the job they're supposed to do as apprentices. Then my question becomes to the Council of State, now that there is a room for discretion in the absence regulation: Does the Council of State believe that approving absences related to driving training for these students who are to be taught later should be acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2544	Firstly, I am pleased that Stortinget does not believe that driving training in general should be a valid reason for absence. Many teacher organisations are also very concerned about it, and I think they have a very good point in saying something about how to prioritize school compared to other things – although it's natural, of course, to want the patch as soon as possible when you get 18 years old. With regard to the specific question, I perceive that it is in the principal's discretion: would driving training be acceptable as a reason for some particular students? I have to say that I have some difficulty answering it on the standing foot. I think it's going to be beyond what is described in the law as the margin of discretion, that it's going to have something to do with the situation of life. I may have to come back to Mr Tyvand's representative about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2551	The representative Martin Henriksen was in on it instead, and the Council of State has suggested that he would be able to look at it, whether assessments should be made, etc. My question is: When could the Council of State possibly think of something like that? It is said on the one hand that it will be an evaluation after three years, and then I expect a proper and large adjustment, etc. But the Council of State sees that he, for example, have made any changes to this legislation in February or April or June or before the next school year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2558	That was a very open question. But that doesn't mean that after three years, after a round of evaluation and research and that, you'll be able to make adjustments. The big question after three years will be whether we should have a rule of absence at all. And I've said that if the experiences are really bad -- there's nothing to suggest now -- then of course there's something we have to consider. I'm not able to set any time for it, because it depends on what kind of information we get in, and discussions with the parties. I also look at what the parties at Stortinget are concerned about, and the issues they raise. But it is not possible for me to set any date for it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2566	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2573	All of us agree and are committed to reducing undocumented absences in high school, just to get rid of them. But then there was this difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. I will not claim that we are there, but I would like to stress the importance of the Workers' Party's proposal on the great responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge to follow the situation. I can give the Minister of Knowledge a description of reality along the way. As the mother of two young people in high school, I can describe many different things that need to be solved, and especially for us who have to send our kids to sleep when they're 16. The representative Nybø described very well the situation of social illness. My son, who goes to school in Trondheim, just got it. Without that I shall go in detail, just like her: He lay of course with his head in a bucket a few days. As the representative Nybø was also involved – early in the year, this would be ensured and documented. Then it's like at the doctor's office, at least you don't let in without being much closer to death than to social illness. And when the settler is 30 miles away, what do you do? In addition, when my grandchildren went to the nursery and got social sickness, they were told not to show up in the nursery until 48 hours had passed after the last time they had vomited. So here's two slightly different worlds anyway. I'm a lot more concerned about those kids who are struggling with the psyche. At this age, it's not the easiest thing to talk about. Often they are afraid to be stigmatized. So telling you that you're going to a psychiatrist or a psychologist, too many people are completely out of date. So I know that of course there is something you can prove, that it can be approved, but the fear is so great that it will come out that you go to that kind of treatment, that they hardly dare to provide such a documentation at the school. Remember, we're talking about young people at a very vulnerable age. So if you have a rigid code that risks young people not going to be treated for mental challenges, we've at least cut off our chins and more than that. Again – I have a lot of understanding about the importance of taking the crooks, but you don't have to treat everyone as if all they want is not being at school. It is at least the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge to follow closely the situation. And remember, while the Council of State is waiting for this to work, it's actually young people going to high school now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2588	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2604	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2613	I refer to the setting of Document 8:3 S for 2016-2017, on a national code that ensures that the faces of students, students and teachers are fully visible in schools, universities and colleges, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with this matter. The proposal was tabled by representatives of the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposers promote this proposal because they want a common regulatory framework for all our educational institutions. They also stress in their explanatory memorandum that this is not a general national ban on the lucky face of society as such, but to clarify that in a teaching situation it is possible to see each other’s face a crucial part of the necessary communication. The debate on what rules we are going to have for the use of lucky facial garments has been going on for a while. In addition to the proposal we are discussing today, the Progress Party has made a similar proposal, in the debate on the throne 4-5. October. As a result of the social debate that has taken place, as well as the proposals that have been promoted in the Grand Duchy, the Minister of Knowledge has announced that he will present a proposal for national legislation on the use of successful facial garments on educational institutions. The Committee is grouped in the view that clothing covering the face should not be used in a educational situation. Furthermore, the Committee refers to current legislation, which states that it is up to the individual municipality, county or educational institution to introduce a possible prohibition on the use of lucky face garments. It appears from the observations in the case that there is a political disagreement about the approach to this issue. In particular, there is disagreement as to whether it is necessary to introduce national legislation or whether it is best managed locally. Regardless of the main positions of the various parties, the large majority of the Committee is aware that this is a complex matter which deserves to be properly addressed and where broad access is given to the education sector and other social actors to comment on whether or not such a legislation should look like. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State has indicated that national legislation will trigger the need for a legislative change, which will involve consultation on legislative changes. Against this background, the majority of the Committee is clear that we want to await the government's legislative proposals and the subsequent consultation before concluding on the matter. We therefore recommend that the minutes be attached to the draft representative. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, are clear that we want legislation that ensures that the face is fully visible in educational situations. Furthermore, it is clear from an overall committee that the government's legislative proposals are presented and sent to consultation in line with the timeline that the Council itself outlines in its reply letter to the Committee, i.e. early in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2634	The majority of the Committee advocates a ban on facial coverage at schools, universities and higher education institutions. This is something the Progress Party has been fighting for for for several years, and we are therefore very pleased that the majority in the Committee concludes as it does, even though we have both similar and different reasons for doing so. This problem area has been debated extensively both nationally and internationally for several years, and we therefore have a clear expectation that the Council of State will present legislation in this area during this enlargement period. In particular, the Progress Party would like to see a national ban on the use of protruding facial garments in public spaces. To adopt a national law in line with the proposal in the case, I see it as a step in the right direction. I would like to stress that this is a ban on facial coverage, whether it be burka, Finnish heat or nicotine. So it's not a restriction of religious freedom. This issue is about ensuring good communication and dissemination in school contexts, which is essential in educational contexts. In addition, open faces improve integration; it is easier to get acquainted with fellow students when one does not hide his face. Although this proposal is about rules against face-covering in general and not in religious terms, I would dwell a little on the political-religious symbol Nicab. Using Nicab can be a political choice, where the signal is that you're an outsider who won't belong to Norwegian society. Furthermore, there is an external signal that certain political positions are being taken, including: that homosexuals do not have the right to life, and that jihad in Syria and Iraq is a duty for judicial Muslim youth in the West. And even though using nikab for many women is a free choice, it is at the same time a strong signal to the public that women are second-class citizens, who cannot show their faces among men. Extreme political and religious forces are active all over the world, as are those in Norway. It may be worth recalling that the controversial organisation Islam Net has over a thousand visitors to what is probably Norway’s largest Muslim event, an annual ‘peace conference’. As a result of a number of terrorist attacks in Europe, there is now a debate on the prohibition of the use of successful facial garments in public settings in several countries in Europe. In France and Belgium, bans have been introduced in public space. So it is not just in Norway that this is a topical issue. I would also like to refer to an article in the newspaper The Reviewer that was printed on 13 February 2013, where the case concerns the prohibition of face-to-face clothing in adult training. A Muslim student says the following: "I believe in individual freedom, and as a Muslim, there is no law against showing the face as a woman. Niqab is about culture, not religion.» I would like to add that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has concluded that the use of Nicab can be banned in the Horten Adult Education classroom. For the Progress Party, this is also a battle of values, and we should not tolerate intolerance. If, as a large community, we bow to the wishes of the extremists, we also make sure that liberal forces among the immigrant population are getting more and more difficult. Actually, it happens that we get feedback about that kind of thing, for example. in the case of swimming training – Muslim parents who allow their children to participate in normal swimming lessons are not good Muslims. This cannot be part of the Progress Party. Although Norway is a free and independent nation, which itself determines which laws and regulations are to apply, I think it is worth noting that the European Court of Human Rights approved the French ban on masking in public places. In other words, the proposal by the majority of the Norwegian population does not conflict with the position of the European Court of Human Rights. The Progress Party therefore expects the Stortinget to have a case on national legislation which states that there should be visible faces in educational contexts before the Stortinget splits for the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2663	The Green Party supports this proposal because we believe it is appropriate to have a clarification and a public debate on how to deal with face-to-face clothing at school and in other contexts, and because we believe that there is a lot of talk that it might be appropriate to have a regulatory framework based on where it is desirable to demand that there should be no use of nicotine or other succulent clothing in the school and education situation. I stress that the Greens do not agree with any desire for a statutory ban on either nicotine or any other clothing in Norway. What we want is an aid and an assessment of how it can be designed appropriate for cases where we need it. What we don't need is a code and a debate that stigmatizes people on the basis of religion or ethnicity, or that makes it more difficult for those who are part of a culture where Nicab is used. At the same time, we would like to stress that as a party, we have very little left over for the way of dealing with, covering and controlling women on whom Nicab is a symbol and an instrument for. It is a debate that we want to be the driving force for, but it is a debate to be taken into consideration in public. We are pleased that the Minister of Knowledge announces that he will draw up legislative proposals, and we support the majority of the Committee's proposals to draw up such legislation. But we also support Left’s clarification – that there is no reason to establish a regulatory framework that makes it impossible for each schoolleader to act flexibly in situations where he or she believes that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2674	The rapporteur well explained how there is full agreement in the Committee that it is not desirable for anyone to cover the face of a teaching situation, and that this is not the great political distance. But just a short time: the case rapporteur also said that there were different opinions in the committee about what kind of solution is right – whether it is a national ban or a local ban. I think it is also appropriate to stress that some of the parties have not taken a final decision on how this should be done. So that doesn't mean that all parties that aren't in the majority comment that say you want a national ban are necessarily against it. We believe from SV's point of view that it is very neat and very good that the government has initiated a thorough discussion of this matter by means of a consultation and a process that can not least provide us with a good insight into how the legislation we have had worked. Therefore, we will simply wait to take a final position until the government has submitted its case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2681	I thank you for the words from the Lighthouse. It's probably an exaggeration to say that the government has taken the initiative, but we're here now. [[Huming in the hall]] Just a few introductory comments: I think it is good that it is very much in favour of a national assembly to adopt a regulation of clothing. We already have a regulation of clothing – for example. you can't cover up in demonstrations and that kind of thing – but here's the other situation. That's because in a free, liberal society, the way you dress is also – as I think the representative Bente Thorsen also got out – a way of expressing himself. In other words, there is something that it should be a long time to regulate. On the other hand, there is a very specific regulation in a specific situation here, and this is not unknown to Stortinget. We already have rules that say that you can have local bans, and there are several – I'm going to get into it – who have introduced that kind of ban. The reason is that one sees that a teaching situation is a special situation that is quite different from many other situations. I also want to say that showing your face, being open, is an important value in our society. When you actually go into educational situations here, it's just because maybe especially then, when you're in a kindergarten, at a university or at school, it's a value, not least to be able to have good teaching and to be able to interact with each other. It's also worth saying that even though most people think of garments like burka and nikab, there are other issues as well. Finland's heat was mentioned here, it's also a lucky face. A prerequisite is that the ban is neutral and necessary and that it is justified in substance. For the very reasons I have now had, some county councils have adopted local bans. Oslo schools have in the regulations, Buskerud, Østfold and Akershus have bans on clothing that covers the face, in secondary schools, and some colleges have it as well. Then it must also be said that it is not a very common problem today that you cover your face. Nevertheless, I would like to look at how national rules on the use of clothing covering the face, in these institutions, should be designed to ensure that there is a level playing field across the country. Moreover, with a possible national ban – it says ‘if appropriate’ in the proposal – it will avoid shifting the problem to local decision-makers, which is an important argument. We have started to work on how to design a national ban on lucky facial features in kindergartens, schools, colleges and universities, and aim to send a bill at a public hearing early in 2017. It must be a ban that is neutral and non-discriminatory. In other words, it must apply to all garments covering the face. It may include children, students and employees in kindergartens and educational institutions, and there will also be fundamental and legal aspects to this. I agree with the majority in the committee that it is a complex issue, which should be discussed and examined in depth, and I also believe it is important that we take the time to consult properly, so that all interested parties are given the opportunity to make their views known. It is a prerequisite that a national ban on lucky facial garments does not conflict with Norway’s obligations under international law. It's also one of the themes that the government is now investigating. We will look at the experience of bans in other countries and possible effects on integration for the individual and the wider community and, of course, on possible practical issues that may arise. For example: This applies to educational situations, but when does a teaching situation end? We have discussed the School Leisure Scheme. The minutes off, the school route – there are some practical things that also need to be clarified. Then there is no concealment that a national ban will lead to people who, at their own discretion, cover themselves – or in and of themselves, those who do not do so on their own initiative – not being allowed to do so. I understand that for some, it can be difficult – basically against covering to the face, especially for political and religious reasons, which I am. Even with such a ban, it is important to have a good dialogue at local level, where you will find ways of facilitating the appearance of the face, but at the same time taking into account those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2702	I think the Council of State had reasonable discussions on this issue. In a liberal society, it's a freedom to dress as much as you like. You can mean what you want, and if the suit is an opinion, there's also something a liberal society needs to have a high ceiling. Although a certain garment should go hand in hand with political views we in the Stortinget, or some parties, should not be alike, it is also part of such a free society. At the same time, in the past, we have had heated discussions on whether it is entirely possible to impose different requirements on people who have chosen to attend a Norwegian educational institution. Demands for presence have been discussed for months, maybe several years, so here we have a requirement for presence also on the face. It is right that the Council of State says – this is not a new matter. The Council of State asked about this on 19 November 2014 in this room, and he concluded that this was something that would be determined locally. The initiative for the matter to come up again was at a selection under the Agenda, with representatives from the Left, Christian People's Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, who suggested that we have such a ban in school. The representative Jan Bøhler asked a written question to Sylvi Listhaug on 7 September this year and received an answer on 13 September. It was a little surprising, maybe, that it wasn't relevant for the government with such a national code. Now a broad majority of the committee decides that such legislation is to be desired. It is quite right that this is not the biggest social problem we have in Norway, but perhaps precisely because there are few people who currently use nikab in educational situations, it is easier to introduce such legislation. I look forward to the government's work on getting this done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2718	The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 12-14 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2757	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 12-14. After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2772	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–5, from Bård Vegar Solhell on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–5, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the publication of reasons for refusal and acceptance of licence applications to countries outside NATO.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Code for the Export of Defence Equipment in such a way that it is in line with the intention not to allow the sale of strategic products to countries where the authorities commit serious human rights violations and systematic repression of their own population.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law/regulation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests that re-port clauses become practice in all exports of military material, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2816	I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2821	I did the opposite, so it's actually going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2826	Then the result is correct. 92 representatives voted against and 9 voted in favour of the proposals from the Left and the Left. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of further developing today’s retail declaration system for exports of strategic goods be explored by the government, for example by allowing random checks to be carried out on specific end-user documentation after a period of time.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2900	During the debate, Mr Vegar Solhjell put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the participation of the Government in any negotiations on a legally binding framework aimed at banning nuclear weapons, as enshrined in Resolution L41, to which a majority of the 1st Committee of the United Nations General Assembly has joined.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e2949	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a coordinated closure of coal operations on Svalbard and to step up its efforts towards other economic development.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan to replace existing coal power with new emission-free energy supply.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3294	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3304	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3374	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left parties. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, through the tendering criteria, to ensure close interaction with the NTNU research environment, as well as to facilitate the development of the new NTNU campus with ambitious environmental solutions, including building mass producing more energy than the user, emission-free transport solutions and other infrastructure that can stimulate both new research and new jobs.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3423	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to amend the training law so that documented absences due to driving training that must take place during school hours can give entitlement to absence without prejudice to the assessment basis.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3454	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the training law so that the school owner is given the authority to exercise discretion in individual cases of absence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to amend the training law so that self-announcement by parents/constituters, or qualified students, is recognised as valid evidence of absence in case of illness and other welfare grounds for up to three days.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3478	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider changes in the rules on absence in secondary education in the light of experience with the absence limit so far. In particular, greater discretion should be considered for the school owner, self-announcement for parents/constituted or qualified students in the event of illness or other welfare grounds and that driving training which must take place during school hours may give entitlement to absence without prejudice to the assessment basis.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3529	Case No. 12, 13 and 14 are the second reading of legislative acts and relate to Acts 5, 6 and 7. There are no proposals for comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-22.ana.ud547e3561	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
