ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e53	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representatives of Hege Haukeland Liadal and Anette Trettebergstuen from 8 February to 10 February – both in order to take part in UN consultations under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union, in New York by the representative Abid Q. Raja on leave, as head of the Freedom of Religion Group of the Stortinge, from 9 February to 12 February in order to attend London and from 16 February to 19 February in order to take part in the Freedom of Religion Conference in Taiwan Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershus, Siri Engesetth, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 9 February to 11 February under the permission of Mr Abid Q. Raja for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For Akershus County: Erik Lundeby 9.-11. ==References====External links== February For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen 9-10. February For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 9-10. February
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e106	Terje Aasland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e109	On behalf of the big business representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Per Rune Henriksen, Åsmund Aukrust, Eirik Sivertsen, Magne Rommetveit and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we go to case no. 1, the President will draw attention to the fact that we shall vote in case No. 1 before we go to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e128	The President shall request a proposal for a new alternate to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e131	I propose Solveig Sundbø the Abrahamsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e136	Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen has been proposed as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e158	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e185	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of up to five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e192	I would first like to thank the Committee for an excellent cooperation on the notification of medicinal products. The Committee's proceedings have been flexible and the Committee's position appears to be a single long comment on the matter. If there is a disagreement about the pharmaceutical policy, there are few places to look in this setting. It is very gratifying that the Stortinget is so cohesive when we now set out the course of pharmaceutical policy in Norway. Business operators, patient organisations and not least trade unions shall also be very grateful for their input into the work on the notification of medicinal products. The response after the committee setting has been good, suggesting that many are satisfied. Voltaire said: Doctors prescribe drugs they know little about, to treat disease they know less about, in people they know nothing about. Norwegian health professionals prove this every day, although many challenges remain in the field of medicinal products. The goal must be to shame Voltaire's words once and for all. Medical technological development is progressing. Treatment opportunities increase, expectations increase and expenditure increases. The pressure on public health coverage is increasing, but the health sector, like all other sectors, cannot rise above the economic framework established by the Storting and the overall resources of society. The patient should be at the centre of our health policy. Better and more accurate medicines not only help people get better, they also make it easier for those who can't get better, to live with the disease. New and more gentle methods not only improve treatment, but also reduce the burden on those who live with disease over time. The correct use of medicinal products and good information on their use are important. The Government proposes the following medicinal policy objectives: ensuring good quality in the treatment of medicinal products shall have the lowest possible price equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products facilitating research and innovation; A single committee endorses these objectives and points out that the four objectives need to be considered in the context of the implementation of the policy on medicinal products. When a person discusses drugs, the price quickly becomes a theme. That will of course be the case in the future, too, especially in the case of expensive new medicines. Several measures have already been taken by the government to reduce the processing time and to ensure that methodological assessments are carried out as quickly as possible. This, together with the raising of the de minimis threshold, is important measures to ensure rapid access to effective medicinal products for the general public. Only last year we got 14 new medicines faster on blue prescription because of the increased de minimis limit. A new aim of pharmaceutical policy is to facilitate research and innovation. There are several reasons why this is important. Clinical studies give Norwegian patients faster access to new medicinal products, provide Norwegian workplaces and strengthen the Norwegian professional environment. Not least, it contributes to strengthening the pharmaceutical industry in Norway. Today, we agree that public procurement schemes for medicinal products should contribute to promoting innovation. The Committee acknowledges the need for Norway to contribute to the development of new medicinal products. At the same time, we have a high potential for further development of the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry and research. In the coming years, it is important that we maintain a well-functioning and sustainable market for generics, also called copy drugs. We assume that the Ministry of Health and Welfare will consider good proposals for changes that strengthen security of supply and serviceability also in the generic market in the investigation work carried out by the Swedish Medical Products Agency. Proper use may be made of medicinal products to prevent and treat disease and to improve the quality of life of individuals. However, it has been proven that pharmaceutical-related challenges exist in all parts of healthcare. The patient safety campaign showed that 12 pst. the patient injury is caused by the misuse of medicinal products. Examples of misuse are that the patient uses too many medicines, gets too high or too low doses, or uses bad combinations of medicines. The patient’s own follow-up of efficacy and adverse reactions, training in the use of medicinal products and self-control of disease are also key elements in ensuring the use of medicinal products. As we have seen in the newsprint this week, there is also a major challenge with increasing use of antidepressants among young people. We have also made good comments on this in the medical notification, and I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister of Health has been very clear that drug-free treatment should be a priority in healthcare. Misuse of medicinal products can have serious consequences for individual patients, such as adverse reactions or deaths. It is estimated that between 1000 and 2000 people in Norway die each year from adverse reactions and adverse drug use. In Norway, therefore, ten times as many people die each year of misuse of medicines as they do in traffic. It's serious. First and foremost for individuals and their family and friends, but also for society, misuse of drugs leads to poor use of resources and significant additional costs related to, for example, the use of drugs. sick leave and hospitalisation. For treatment to work, the doctor must make the right diagnosis and choose the right treatment. We know that a thorough medical investigation, drug reviews, up-to-date medical lists and good follow-up of patients with multiple diseases will reduce the extent of adverse reactions and other drug-related problems. The message of the medicinal product bears the hallmark of this, and the correct use is a review tone in the message. In addition, we take into account that knowledge-based update visits, ‘Academic Detailing’, also show good results, and in the message we point out several places that this can be an important contribution to ensuring good prescribing and medical investigation of patients when they visit the doctor. If medicinal products are to be effective, the patient must comply with the prescribed treatment. There is evidence that this survival is lower than one has been aware of. WHO figures show that about 50 pst. patients with chronic illness do not follow the recommended treatment. It is a high number and can have many explanations, ranging from lack of knowledge to forgetfulness, fear of side effects, denial of own disease or practical challenges. Furthermore, the patient role has changed from being submissive to being questionable. Several patients need to be involved in their own treatment, which I consider positive. We want a health service that evolves in this direction, with more power for the patient. Both in Norway and internationally, patients are increasingly required to participate in decisions on their own health and disease. As we know about the causes of misuse, it appears that good information and decision support are important tools for improving the quality of treatment and increasing patient safety. One challenge is that the health professionals’ overview of the actual use of the medicinal product by the patient is often very poor. It is also a problem that the interaction between specialist health services and caregivers is not always so good, and it is also shown in Norwegian studies that there is not always a match between what is in the journal systems of the nursing homes, and what the doctor actually believes the patient is going on. We meet this in the message with several measures, including: the measure in use, which will provide doctors with an overview of the overall patient list of medicinal products. It'll be a little difficult to be a doctor and prescribe new medication or remove medication when you don't have an overview of what is the starting point. Another challenge is that today's systems are not user-friendly. Health professionals lack access to relevant pharmaceutical information in their working tools. Available information is also somewhat adapted to the public, with the consequence that the patient does not understand information intended for them. In the notification of medicinal products, the means of ensuring good quality of treatment with medicinal products and the means of ensuring patient safety are a priority. At the same time, we are committed to giving patients better opportunity to master their own drug use. In this context, we point to more and better pharmaceutical services, drug reviews, start-up talks and better and more adapted pharmaceutical information. We are now waiting for the results of the Medisinstart study, which will show us whether this is the way to go when it comes to up-to-date medical information for patients from pharmacies. We agree that we need to allow modern communication platforms to provide patients with the best possible access to information. Unfortunately, too many cryptic leaflets are the only information channel for most patients on their own medications, and the truth is that most people throw the package leaflet as soon as they open the medicine package. Information not available. The regulatory framework for advertising of medicinal products has been harmonised in the EEA area. Nevertheless, there are considerable differences in practice in different countries. The difference is mainly due to different interpretations or differences in the follow-up of pharmaceutical advertising. In order to achieve proper use, we believe that the specific product knowledge of the pharmaceutical industry on its own medicinal products can be exploited more patient-orientedly. It is gratifying that a broad majority supports this assessment. We want to improve funding and access to tried and tested treatment. In order to provide tried and tested treatment under conditions that ensure safe and good services, there are principles in place to provide trial treatment primarily to patients through clinical research studies. The drug notification contains a number of instruments to increase the number and quality of clinical studies. We will improve patients’ access to clinical studies and facilitate the necessary infrastructure to support the conduct of more and more clinical studies. It is important that this be followed up in the specialist healthcare service, and that one ensures the best possible interaction between the specialist healthcare service, the Norwegian research environment and the industry that is actually developing new medicines. Indeed, if the pharmaceutical industry is not there, no one else is ready to develop new medicines in the future. Equivalence and rapid access to medicinal products require an effective and fair reimbursement system for medicinal products. Only in this way will everyone have equal access to medicines, regardless of their economy. A well-developed pharmacy and efficient wholesale activities are the supports of the distribution of medicinal products. The pharmaceutical policy must ensure the functioning of distribution, including changes in communications and trading platforms. We see the need to define more detailed criteria for the distribution of financial responsibilities for medicinal products between public and health businesses as well as for the funding scheme for vaccines. Vaccines have been referred to as a medical sacrament equivalent to baptism. Now we're not going that far, but in the fight against infectious diseases, offensive vaccination policies and your two high levels of vaccination are essential. It is important to note that a medicinal product may be ineffective or even harmful if it is used incorrectly. Medicinal products can cure as well as cause suffering. The message’s heading is Proper use – better health. This means that all healthcare and supply chain actors must work together to prescribe, distribute, deliver and give the patient the right amount at the right time. I will end with Paracelsus: ‘Everything is married and nothing is married; only the dose determines whether something is a poison.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e267	The grandma is dealing with two things today. One is Meld St. 28 for 2014–2015, The Medical Products Communication: Proper use – better health, as the case-rapporteur just mentioned. The second is the proposal for a representative Document 8:125 S for 2014-2015 from the deposit representatives Kjersti Toppe and Per Olaf Lundtägen, on measures against over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicinal products. I refer this matter to the Committee's recommendation and to a total of four minority proposals promoted by two different minorities. I will come back to it toward the end of my post. The development of medicines is our common history of human progress, of better and longer lives. Medicinal products are the most common form of medical treatment in our common healthcare system. In one year, two thirds of the Norwegian population receive prescription drugs. Drug treatment plays an important role in preventing and reducing morbidity and mortality, but may also cause adverse reactions and other drug-related problems. Technological progress and the development of ever-new medicines provide us with great opportunities to cure disease. New drugs give people a better, longer and simpler life. At the same time, developments bring us into difficult discussions on priorities and resource use on new and unsafe treatments. In such a landscape, a forward-looking pharmaceutical policy is essential. The notification is very good and the Workers' Party will contribute to the follow-up of good intentions in the field of medicines through practical action. It is a strength for our common health service that the pharmaceutical policy is as united as the Committee's position. Norway is a small country and a small pharmaceutical market. In an international context, we have low prices and limited pharmaceutical production at home. Ten years have passed since the last notification of the medicinal product, and the Workers' Party is pleased that the government has followed up the Stortingen's request decision of spring 2013 to prepare a notification of the medicinal product. We think it is good that we deal with a communication that conducts an overall review of the pharmaceutical policy. The working party is committed to the four main objectives of medicinal policy, which are a further development of the old objectives. In our common healthcare system, good quality treatment with medicinal products should be ensured. Medicinal products shall have the lowest price possible. Access to effective medicinal products shall be equivalent and rapid. In addition, we need the ability to facilitate research and innovation. Misuse of medicinal products is one of the most frequent causes of poor quality and damage to our health. That is why we were waiting for action in the new communication. We are therefore very positive about the proposal in the medical report that local authorities are required to systematically review the use of medicines in their homes. So we see that an average spacer uses seven medications at the same time, which can be very unfortunate without careful evaluation. This has been a practice in the municipality of Trondheim for a long time, and we see good results from such actions. The working party also wants pharmacists to play a central role in healthcare. Several pharmacists entering the municipal health service may be a proper and good measure. We believe that user-friendliness is central to promoting the safe use of medicines. It is therefore appropriate to further simplify and improve the system so that patients and health professionals can understand and benefit from the existing systems. There is a great need for more information and knowledge, and here all parties must cooperate. Here, we must encourage the use of all platforms, the use of new technologies and the provision of good information for patients out there. The healthcare professionals working there must be able to share and transfer their competences seamlessly. Here I must also mention the guidance service in pharmacy. We eagerly await the Ministry's response to standardised guidance services for asthma and carbon spaces that go beyond today's information obligation. The Working Party, together with the majority of the Committee, also believes that the pharmaceutical industry must be actively involved in the information work. As I have said, is very good! But as we read the message, it may be a little cautious, much needs to be investigated and evaluated further. Governments asked for a new and more offensive anti-drug policy, and we believe he could show even more force in action in the position. Fortunately, the Committee's discussion shows that there is a great deal of will in the Grand Duchy to go further. I am glad that the Committee has adopted the tab on Norway’s contribution to the development of new medicinal products. An overall committee points to a large potential for further development of Norwegian industry and research. Norwegian patients may benefit from participating in trial treatment. We know that. The working party is very pleased that an overall committee will focus on Norway’s comparative advantage based on very good quality biobanks and health records. Biobanks and health records are becoming important for the development of tomorrow’s personalised medicine. Norway’s opportunities to redeem more research, innovation and industrial development based on Norwegian biobanks and health registers need to be explored further. The Labour Party has promoted a proposal for a representative to lift Norwegian biobanks, and we look forward to dealing with it by Stortinget. Former Minister of Health of the Workers' Party Jonas Gahr Støre commissioned regional health companies in 2013 to conduct an investigation into personalised medicine in our common healthcare service. The report was completed in 2014, but the government has so far made little of it. The investigation concludes that new technologies for rapid and comprehensive biological analysis have provided personalised medicine with a new and more precise foundation in recent years. The study estimates that personalised medicine will have a positive effect on public health and that the sum of more patient-adapted diagnostics, treatment and prevention at individual level will result in several good years of life for so many people that it will be measurable in terms of reduced morbidity and mortality at public health level. It facilitates a large and coordinated effort on personalised medicine also in Norway. The Labour Party proposed this last year, asking the government to present a national strategy and funding plan for personalised medicine in Norway and to grant funds to build up national competences on this. With regard to the objective of correct price and equivalent and rapid access to medicinal products, I would just like to underline the consensus of the Committee. The working party awaits the government's overall review of the pharmacy industry and the step-by-step pricing system. Any changes here must be linked to the other policy objectives. The red-green government and then Minister of Health Gahr Støre described the need for a national system for introducing new methods of health care. The broad lines were described in the national health and care plan 2011–2015 and Report. St. 10 for 2012–2013, Good quality — safe services. The system allows us to better grasp and control which medicines are being used. It is necessary in a healthcare service that is constantly under pressure from priorities and balances between different considerations. We believe that the scheme is initially good, but it needs adjustments to work optimally. We believe that transparency does not necessarily require public opinion and the media to participate directly in all decision-making forums where individual decisions are taken, but that there should be full transparency about the reasons. This is also in line with what the Norheim Committee, known as the Priority Committee, says. The duration of treatment is also felt to be too long, the flow of information needs to be improved, and strict transparency requirements should be imposed. The reasons for the use of a medicinal product should be publicly available. We are positive that there should now be a professional opinion before consideration in the Priority Committee. I would like to stress in particular that vaccines are an important part of national pharmaceutical policy. Vaccines save countless lives every year. In poor developing countries, parents are begging for vaccines to be given to their young, while in rich developed countries there are interest groups and individuals working against all vaccinations. The vaccine skeptics take heavy responsibility for their own and other children’s health. Without solidarity vaccination, dangerous diseases such as measles, polio, diphtheria and chick cough could spread to the population. In a future of increased migration, national vaccination programmes are becoming even more important tools for national health authorities. In Norway, we have a high uptake of the paediatric vaccination programme and selected target groups that are considered at risk. There's too little systematized effort beyond that, we totally agree with that. We think it is good that the government looks at this, possibly a vaccine programme for adults, and we are also positive for a better system for the introduction of vaccines. The first test for the government's pharmaceutical policy is in the budgets. This is where it has to be delivered. We promise full support in Stortinget. In the proposal for a representative on over-use of prescription-free medicines, we support an information campaign aimed at young people. Knowledge of the use of non-prescription medicinal products is important to establish early. The working party believes that healthcare is well-burdened with good self-care and responsible use of prescription-free medicines for minor disorders. Good accessibility and good information are important. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating, in both cases – and I repeat what I think is important: a unified pharmaceutical policy is important for our common healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e303	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e306	Let me first of all thank the committee's rapporteur, the representative of Stensland, for very good work on a great message that is important to many, and also a joint committee for very good contributions to the process we have been through. It is a joyous day for the Progress Party when a new report on medicinal products is finally debated and adopted in this Chamber. The Progress Party has called for such a message, precisely because we believe it is an important contribution in looking ahead and thinking about the long term in the area of medicines. Let me go back to November 2012. The Progress Party then promoted a proposal for a proposal for a future pharmaceutical policy. In the proposal, we outlined the desire to improve Norwegian pharmaceutical policy – specifically through a number of measures. At the time, we thought — as now — that the misuse of drugs is a challenge. The message we are dealing with today is that misuse and adverse reactions of medicinal products are a problem which, in the worst case, can lead to fatal outcomes. One of the main challenges of achieving the correct use of medicinal products is that healthcare professionals and patients do not have a good enough overview of the medicinal products used by the patient. The problem is particularly serious for those who use many medicines at the same time and for those who switch between different levels of care. A single committee believes that the notification of medicinal products points to a number of measures that may improve the situation in this area, including: by providing a better overview of the use of medicinal products by patients to prevent both adverse combinations of medicinal products, misuses and adverse reactions. We must bear in mind that changes in the picture of the disease and demographic development will greatly increase the need for further innovation in this area in the future. For us politicians, it is very essential that the pharmaceutical policy objectives we set ourselves result in practical action. We believed in 2012 that the de minimis threshold had to be changed. It had then remained silent since it was introduced in 2003. Only now, under today's government, is the limit changed – and actually fivefold – from 5 to 25 million. kr. The Progress Party believes that this will help us to speed up the process of getting new, effective medicines. The raising of the de minimis limit is also important in order to advance the use of medicines that are to be used under the bladder prescription system. The Progress Party is pleased that 14 more medicines have been included in the prescription scheme lately, and that we have had and still have a review of the food supplement code. The changes in the regulation created major debates and engaged thousands of individuals. We must never forget that, especially in the area of health and care, it is precisely those who are involved: individuals. The party of progress has always put individual people in front of the system, and we will continue to do that. The party is very pleased that exciting things are happening in the field of medicines, and that much of our previous opposition policy is being adopted and implemented, among others. the issue of the introduction of online pharmacy, which will help to simplify people's everyday lives. Former Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre did not decide whether a number of the challenges we pointed to and proposed would be part of a new drug notification. So they're going to be here today. I'm not saying we're in the target, we still have to be focused on innovation, research and clinical studies in a large and comprehensive field. We need a strong and competent pharmaceutical industry, it is important that we ensure proper medicines at the right price, and that even small Norway must contribute to the development of new medicines. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that is committed to the four main objectives of the Pharmacovigilance Communication: that there is good quality in the treatment of medicinal products, that medicinal products should have the lowest possible price, that there should be equivalent and rapid access to medicinal products, and not least that it should be facilitated for research and innovation. So a few words about the representative proposal from the two representatives of the Central Party Kjersti Toppe and Per Olaf Lundtigen. I have to say that I am a little surprised at the very proposal of the representatives, which is about over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicines. Firstly, they are asking for measures against over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicinal products. Secondly, the four different proposals, several of which are already included in the notification of medicinal products. And although there is now a escalation plan in the drug field, the proposal for a representative calls for overdose monitoring related to the use of analgesics. The Public Health Institute reports a decline in the sale of analgesics such as paracetamol and ibuprofen, while the Centre Party draws up an action plan for non-existent increases. An important detail is that these non-prescription medicines are used against light everyday plagues for an otherwise quite healthy population. I think it is unnecessary for the proposers to dramatize an over-consumption when they do not say anything about what is to be regarded as normal consumption. Non-prescription medicines are a good supplement and are usually important self-care for ordinary people who get something as daily and harmless as moderate fever and headaches are most often. It is the sale of prescribed paracetamol that has been shown to increase, not the non-prescription variant. I must therefore be surprised to say that the Senterpartie actually wants measures in the area where there is just a decline in use and sales. But back to the pharmaceutical notification at the very end. I conclude as I started: this is a joyous day for the Advancement Party, and it is also a joyous day for Norwegian pharmaceutical policy. This notification of medicinal products is a major step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e342	The Christian People's Party will stand in the line of those who thank the case rapporteurs on both issues that we are now discussing. There has been good cooperation in the committee, seems the Christian People's Party. I want to go to the medical report first, but I want to discuss this with both cases in the back of my mind. The vision in the notification of medicinal products is that the pharmaceutical policy should ‘contribute to better public health’ – neither more nor less. It is based on four objectives: quality, price, equivalent access and research and innovation. Good quality has many sides, and use and overconsumption are part of quality. It can be about over-consumption of antibiotics. The Committee asks the government to consider new guidelines for the use of antidepressants, analgesics and addictives by young people in particular, for quality is also always about how we use drugs. The Christian People's Party would also wish that, in a public health perspective, which is part of the vision, we had assessed the possibility of getting drugs for smoking withdrawal on blue prescription. We think it's an important and correct way of working with regard to the public health perspective. There is a need for those who need it the most, and who may have the least wallet. Unfortunately, the majority wouldn't do that. The Christian People's Party is also involved in the many medicines with high availability, which have become very common, and which are used most of the freshest part of the population on a daily basis, which thus need knowledge that it can also provide an over-use and abuse, which in turn has public health consequences. That is why we agree with many of the proposals made by the Central Party. It is also true that many of the serious incidents in the specialist healthcare system deal with drug use failures. We see the same thing in Norwegian nursing homes and in home care. Special measures must therefore be taken against home care and Norwegian nursing homes. We know that on average, patients in Norwegian nursing homes have six to seven disorders. This means that they also have a high drug consumption, and therefore the risk of side effects is also high. We ask the government to assess its own action plan aimed at this very thing, because it costs patients in Norwegian hospitals a lot, but it costs the most. Therefore, it would have been important to have a high level of medical staff in Norwegian hospitals to ensure the quality of drug use. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government will prescribe an obligation for municipalities to provide systematic medical reviews. The Christian People's Party would go further and actually legislate this, because we believe it is such an important quality indicator for the municipalities to govern in order to ensure the quality of patients and also to secure the costs of our society. The use of pharmaceutical products in both the municipality and hospitals is good. The information that they can provide is often beyond what the doctor and nurse can provide. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the notification of medicinal products in its entirety, and I take up the proposal that we are included in the presentation of the medicinal product notification, and the proposals that we are included in the presentation of Document 8:125 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e363	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e366	The drug is a very important input into health services, both for prevention and for treatment, and I think it is very good that the government has provided this medical message, which contains many good measures. First of all, the objective of medicinal policy: there is a strong political consensus on the four objectives set, namely ensuring good quality, the lowest possible price of medicinal products, the availability of equivalent and rapid access, and facilitating research and innovation. The centre party is on its own about a comment in the setting where we point out that, in addition, we believe that the proper use of medicinal products should be an independent objective of the pharmaceutical policy, as it was in the past. We must respect the fact that proper use of medicinal products can also be no use. Antibiotic use and development of resistance are examples of just that. I'm glad one in the message is clear that we should have 30 pst. a reduction in just antibiotics use and an action plan is in place to achieve that. What we are missing in the message is that the right priority of the medicinal product has been pushed out to the priority message. It is that today there is an unfair distribution of medicinal products between patient groups, at least we may be concerned about it. The cancer drugs are getting a lot of attention, and it's understandable, but the Center Party is also concerned about, for example, drug addicts with hepatitis C infection, bone-driving elderly women who do not get the drugs they need for osteoporosis prevention, etc., but we look forward to this debate in the context of the prioritisation message. I want to highlight this with personalised medicine. It's a very important area that allows precise diagnostics and customization of treatment, and this is the future. We look forward to the national strategy that is coming, and to a regional centre of excellence in this area. The training of pharmacists is also described in the message. We are somewhat concerned about the educational capacity, and we have in a note asked the government to secure the pharmacy study in Bergen, which is now created uncertain about. Misuse of medicinal products is a serious problem in the healthcare system and represents 5-10 pst. of hospitalisations. Public health surveillance has also shown a lack in this area in the municipal health services, in hospitals and in open care. The medicinal product notification contains many concrete measures in this area, and we are pleased with this: common lists of medicinal products, electronic basket, nuclear records and not least the need for a regulatory obligation to carry out a systematic review of medicinal products. We also believe that we need to ensure this in the fixed medical system – it is already regulated today, but it is not being used to the extent that we think is necessary – that one should make better use of the pharmacies' competences, and that one should get a better development in the use of municipal pharmaceuticals. There's already an inhalation guide, and that's good, and the Medisinstart project is very positive to the Center Party. These are good actions mentioned in the message. We're sceptical about opening up advertising for prescription-free drugs. I would like to address this in my speech on the proposal for a representative that we have put forward. The central party supports the government, unlike the Right and the Advance Party, that one should not open up for information material from industry, which is distributed to patients by prescription, to be no longer considered as advertising. 6,000 die in Norway every year because of smoking. Smoking costs society 3.5 billion. kr per year. We are making a proposal today to amend § 14-14 of the prescription so that anti-nicotin dependence medicinal products can be evaluated for reimbursement. We shall also vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the left, if the same thing, where they ask the government to evaluate this. We also have a proposal asking the government to come back to the Storting with a supply and security plan for medicines. With this, I make my suggestions to the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e389	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e392	I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. There is, of course, too much in the position and also a large majority who are not in the whole committee. On the day of cancer, I choose to start my article talking about access to medicines. We are witnessing a rapid development in new cancer drugs. Although significant progress has been made in recent years, Norway is lagging behind in accessing the latest and most innovative carcinogens. This also applies to new combinations of treatments of drugs, such as stem cell therapy and personalised medicine for people with rare disorders. The left is concerned about a development that can reinforce a class-based healthcare system, where those who can afford pay their medicine and their treatment themselves, while others have to wait because of economics. We don't want this kind of development. The Cancer Association wants a fund model as one of several responses to a more systematic and faster phase-in and mid-financing of new drugs, based on a model previously proposed by the Health Directorate. Such a fund has positive elements in it that allow patient organisations and private individuals to raise money. It can help reduce the price of patients who are willing to try out medications, and it allows some patients to dare to take a greater risk than others — on behalf of themselves, of course, but also on behalf of the community. So we also know that there are challenges with a fund model that both Denmark, Germany and England have tried. The left is positive in discussing a fund model to finance access to new drugs and treatments for the sickest patients, but believes that the fund should be universal and not just for cancer medicine — and not just medicine. There is rapid technological development. We also believe that we should look at possible Nordic cooperation. We also want a strategy for public procurement in the field of medicines based on future treatment needs and reflecting pharmaceutical policy objectives. Transparency and transparency are important in this area in order to ensure both patient safety and democratic legitimacy. We want to go looking for a Norwegian fund model and have received a lot of input during the processing of this message, which we want to look into and include in the discussion about the prioritisation when it comes. The Ebola outbreak in several African countries gave Norway the opportunity to show both ourselves and the world what we can contribute. With the population growth we see in the world now, there will be many opportunities to contribute in many ways, but we need both ability and would seize some opportunities. There will be a great need for the combination of fresh water, medicines, vaccines, medical treatment and, above all, medical competence in the future. We have a strong aid sector in Norway. If we want to connect it with industrial competence to the pharmaceutical industry, chemistry and other process industries, we have a good basis for building a new pharmaceutical industry in Norway and increasing the export of Norwegian health and assistance skills. Australia has health as its largest export article. Here lies a blue-green sector waiting for us — and the two most recent examples of the establishment of drug production in Norway are found in Elverum and in the Ferenes, domestically and in relatively small places in Norway. Stable labour and stable social infrastructure are identified as Norwegian priority. In addition, if we link innovation to public health and primary health services in municipalities, this can be a win-win situation in many ways, not least for preparedness. We are in some areas at a minimum of national drug preparedness in Norway and therefore need to discuss more self-production in Norway to ensure it. With a so-called moral paragraph in pharmaceutical legislation, it has also been suggested that there should be a debate on whether we should continue to adhere to a raised index of pharmaceutical policy. The development of recent years has shown that the closest possible is possible. Even I have been asked to wind up the entire moral paragraph, justified in public health. As many people have been involved, we need to look at end-of-smokers and especially at carbon atoms. When we are now offering them more systematic rehabilitation, they should also be offered smoke extinguishers. In what way do we have to discuss it in more detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e414	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e417	That's right. I would like to address the proposal on which the Left stands alone, and on which we stand with others. We will also vote in favour of today's informed proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e424	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e427	I can then first inform you that SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 to 6 in the case of the notification of medicinal products, and for proposals Nos 1 to 6 in the case of the notification of medicinal products. 1, 2 and 4 of the draft representative. Medicine is a great asset, and it has revolutionized the world. Now we survive diseases and injuries that you didn't die of very long ago, so it's a great revolution and a great good. Therefore, it is important that Norway provides good medicines early, and that there may be a little more ahead than what has now been available to use new treatments. In particular, we've seen it related to cancer, but also to some other drugs. That being said, SV, like the Centre Party said, is very concerned with the proper use of medicinal products. The debate on antibiotic resistance is an important issue there. We've discussed it related to animal health, but also against public health, and it's clear that if such an important medicine doesn't work because what it's supposed to work against, has been made resistant, it's very serious. I have been in debates with the Minister of Health, who has said that this is the biggest health policy challenge we have, and that treatment that to date has saved lives can actually become ineffective. So that's one of the most important things that we have to take care of. Therefore, the SV is critical that proper drug use has been taken out as one of the main objectives and priority areas of the notification. In the past, I have had interpellation with the Council of State on the side effects of medications, including therapeutic doses of common medicines – i.e. not over-use, not intoxication – because there are many side effects here that make people seriously ill, and that are again diagnosed as a new disease where you are being medicated, with subsequent side effects. The Minister of Labour should be very concerned about this, because there are a lot of those who are getting out of work and going in that round dance, who have this problem. And it's not people who seek drugs; it's people who have been treated, and who get far too long and too massive treatment for hurt, sorrow or pain. It's part of this that we have to discuss with much greater seriousness about the use of drugs, not only in terms of antibiotics, but also in terms of the use of other drugs, because society no longer has time to mourn. The community no longer has time to allow people to take the time they need to recover. You have to put in a lot of drugs and you have to get up and be as gentle from day three. That's not a good thing. It creates a lot of new disease and side effects, so it's very important that we are concerned about. The report also mentions women and LARs — those who become pregnant when on LAR treatment. SV is very concerned that we can go through that area properly, and now get rules and not least offer of long-term prevention, free prevention, which you cannot end yourself, because this hurts children very much. There has also been a lot of discussion about overdose deaths and the use of methadone. It's a matter of our own which we have to come back to, but here I believe that medical policy is too much influenced by moralism and too little characterized by realism and by saving lives. The last point I'm going to pick up is related to nursing homes and sick patients, especially the dents. There are a lot of demented patients who get a lot of medications, and they get a lot of medications to calm down, but sometimes it's disease and damage, that creates pain and anxiety, that gets untreated in these patients. Therefore, it is extremely important that we increase the medical density associated with both home care and nursing homes, and that you get more staff otherwise by professional staff, which we will discuss in the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e444	Today we are discussing the notification of medicinal products. This Communication is about how pharmaceutical policy can contribute to better public health. Medicinal products are used in all parts of the healthcare system, and pharmaceutical policy is therefore directed at both municipal and specialist health services. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their work on the communication and for their attitude to the broad support for the pharmaceutical policy put forward by the government. All actors in the field of medicinal products have been involved in the process of wholesale notification. We have received clear feedback on what are the main challenges: lack of overview of patients’ drug use, low user-friendly pharmaceutical information and lack of compliance with treatment. We need greater interaction across sectors and levels to achieve the goal of more and better clinical studies. This challenge picture is widely agreed on. The medicinal product notification is one of several government messages in the last year and all messages must be seen in the context. It is the public health notification, the annual quality notification, the primary health notification, the national health and hospital plan, the escalating plan for the drug field, the forthcoming prioritisation message and the government action plan for healthcare2l. The government’s vision of the pharmaceutical policy is that it should contribute to better public health. Medicinal products help improve health and improve the quality of life of many patients. Medicinal products are important in both disease prevention and treatment. We propose updating the policy objectives. The changes proposed in the notification are based on four key medicinal policy objectives. These are: ensuring good quality in the treatment of medicinal products to have the lowest possible price of medicinal products to have equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products to facilitate research and innovation; For all use of medicinal products, patient safety shall be ensured and patients shall not be unnecessarily injured. There shall be good quality at all stages – from development and production to delivery and use. Because we lack an overview of patients’ drug use, we propose to work out a common list of medicines. The Common List of Medicinal Products shall take account of the need to have an in-service overview of medicinal products, but will also be central to the further development of the current Register of Medicinal Products. This shall be seen in the context of the long-term work of realising the vision of ‘one citizen — one journal’. Old people in hospitals often receive too many medicines and unlucky combinations of medicines. Defective medication may lead to adverse side effects, worsening of the disease, failure to function and, in the worst case, death. We therefore propose to require all municipalities to provide a systematic review of medicinal products for all elderly people in hospitals. This is knowledge that we've had over a long time. The consequences have been known for a long time, but there is still too much difference between municipalities in using this tool. That's why we rarely do something: use a rule to oblige the municipalities to do this. A number of measures are proposed to improve information on medicinal products for healthcare professionals and patients. This will help to increase quality and patient safety. We are dedicated to taking all the good forces into use in this work. The pharmacists have full medical competence for which patients can benefit, and this profession should therefore play a role in patient treatment. With increased attention to patient safety, clinical pharmacy has been introduced in several hospitals and municipalities employ municipal pharmacists. Apothecary is a low-threshold provision for healthcare, which has good prerequisites for informing patients about the proper use of medicines. This is a statutory and important task for pharmacies. It's already allocated five million. kr to a testing scheme with standardised guidance services from pharmacists to patients with asthma or charcoal. Stakeholders are now well in the process of planning this service. All of these are examples of instruments that can improve treatment by preventing misuse of medicinal products and providing better enforcement of treatment. We want to keep the goal that medicines should have the lowest possible price – this to ensure low costs for the public as well as low costs for the patient. Key instruments for achieving this objective are the maximum price and step-by-step pricing system. We see, however, that there may be room for improvement, and have therefore commissioned the Swedish Medicines Agency to review and assess the step-by-step pricing scheme and the margins of pharmacies during 2016. New medicinal products are introduced into the market at disproportionate prices. There is a need to strengthen the possibility to negotiate discounts on medicinal products financed by public security. We have recently consulted a proposal for changes to the law to facilitate that type of price rebate. Equivalence and rapid access to effective medicinal products are aimed at ensuring that medicinal products are available on the Norwegian market and to ensure access to medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay. Today there are more than 800 pharmacies in Norway – a very good coverage. It also facilitates the establishment of retapothecs. Network pharmacy combined with electronic prescription solutions will provide the public with even better access to safe and effective medicines. Raising the de minimis threshold has been one of the main measures of the government to ensure equivalent and rapid access to effective blue prescription medicinal products and 14 medicinal products have been reimbursed due to the increased de minimis level. It is important that we have good systems for financing, implementing vaccination and monitoring vaccines. We have proposed to explore a more robust system to assess the introduction of new vaccines in the public domain. Furthermore, we propose to explore the need for a vaccination programme for adults, similar to the paediatric vaccination programme. The government's objective is to strengthen health research. We have proposed that the pharmaceutical policy should facilitate research and innovation. We will give several patients access to trial treatment through clinical studies. We set up a joint clinical treatment research programme in the specialist healthcare service from 2016 onwards, and we have established a website on Healthnorge.no that provides patients with information on which clinical studies it is possible to participate in. We will strengthen the research infrastructure and testing units in hospitals, so that clinical studies can be carried out more quickly. Better provision shall be made for early phase studies and for cooperation with industry through NorCRIN, which is an established network of clinical studies. National, Nordic and international cooperation on clinical studies will be strengthened and we will assess whether participation in clinical studies will be part of the funding system for research in health regions. The aim is to provide even stronger incentives for conducting clinical studies. The communication on the policy of medicinal products shows a direction for overall development, to which I hope – and see – that the Storting will join. A proposal for a representative on measures against over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicinal products is also being debated today. The system of sales of non-pharmacologic medicinal products, the LUA system, was introduced in 2003. The scheme allows some prescription-free medicinal products to be sold in e.g.: grocery stores. Medicinal products without prescription are mainly used in moderate conditions, such as pain and fever, of the otherwise healthy part of the population. The LUA mechanism prevents these users from visiting a doctor or pharmacist to purchase paracetamol or ibuprofen. The sale of receptor-free paracetamol has been stable. The sale of prescribed paracetamol has increased at the expense of other more potent analgesics. It is important to prevent over-use and misuse, especially among children and young people. Sales of LUA medicinal products are at 18 years of age. The primary source of painkillers for 15- to 16-year-olds is drugs available at home. Misuse of analgesics was a problem even before the LUA system. A ban on the sale of non-pharmacist paracetamol would have to result in the prohibition of other analgesics. Such an intervention in the availability of painkillers by people will largely invalidate the purpose of the LUA scheme. Advertising for prescription-free medicinal products reaches Norwegian viewers via foreign TV channels and via all other media platforms, including online TV. The ban that has now been lifted has affected only those channels that send from Norway and are subject to Norwegian legislation. Strict guidelines for the design of such advertising are in place. The negative effects of such advertising being also legal for consignments from Norway are estimated to be very limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e525	Antibiotic resistance is currently a limited problem in Norway, but the threat is imminent. It can be seen that antibiotic use is increasing at a higher rate than the extent of infectious diseases should be indicated. It tells us that it is important to work on this issue, and it is important to work across sectors. The government has presented an action plan. The drug notification also describes the tracks that national health authorities should work for. But this is a global problem. So my question to the Council of State is: what does the government do to prevent this internationally, and what initiatives have been taken in this effort to strengthen efforts globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e532	Norway participates in and has taken initiatives in a number of areas related to the international fight against antibiotic resistance. I fully agree that here we must act both nationally and globally. I have often used images from the climate challenges. I believe that antibiotic resistance is the climate challenge of healthcare, as a consequence if we don't do anything, because much of what we know from modern medicine will not be active, but also because it requires cross-sectoral efforts, international efforts and local efforts. We must act both locally and globally. We are working on this through Nordic cooperation, but not least through EU Ministerial Cooperation. This is also part of the US-initiated work Global Health Security Agenda, in which we are also actively involved. I'm going to attend a summit on this in Amsterdam next week, so this is one of the things that I give the highest priority to international work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e539	I want to focus on children and young people, both in terms of the use of — what they themselves say is the use of — non-prescription drugs for their own purposes, and in terms of the use of antidepressants by health care. We know that 57 pst. increasing antidepressants in the last 15 years is one of the main challenges, especially for children and young people. I want to ask the Council of State what he thinks about this growing use, and what he will do to reduce the use, both of antidepressants and of non-prescription drugs. Because that's not the solution to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e544	I'm convinced that we have to get better in this area. As I said in the Questionnaire yesterday, using the psychopharmaceutical should not be the first solution in the meeting with children and young people with mental health challenges. We see an alarming development in which from 2005 to 2014 a significant increase in the number of people aged 15 to 19 who use antidepressants has been observed, according to the RESEP index. The Agency and the European Medicines Agency warned in 2003 against the use of antidepressants in young people. After that, we saw a reduction in the use of antidepressants among children and adolescents at 17 pst. from 2004 to 2005. The Health Directorate will now cooperate with the Institute for Public Health to assess new information on users and to prescribe anti-depressants. The Health Directorate also wants to order a mission for a knowledge base on better treatment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e551	In the pharmaceutical notification, the government is going to remove points (a) and (d) of the prescription § 14-14, so that new drugs against drug dependence and erectile dysfunction can be granted a pre-authorised refund – there may be good enough reason for these drugs to do so. But when it comes to drugs against the quit, the government in the medical report explains that these people have to pay for these drugs themselves, because they will tend so much not to smoke. Just like that, I found it very difficult to understand, because he can also apply to e.g. the addicts. Will the Council of State again explain what is really the argument that smoking cessation drugs should still be included in the paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e561	It's a matter of priority. Giving these types of medicines to the prescription scheme means, of course, using resources to provide medical treatment to a group that currently spends a lot of money buying tobacco — where a person can save a lot of money by using this treatment. That's what's behind the priorities behind this. That is why we have now chosen to change the regulation as a matter of priority in areas which are in a completely different situation that we find difficult to defend, and which I am also pleased that the Storting joins. It concerns drug dependence, and is associated with erectile dysfunction, which are important areas. And I think most people see that addicts will often be in a completely different situation than smokers in terms of the ability to pay for this kind of help yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e568	I want to go to the small package leaflet that comes with medicines and has very small writing. There's a lot of facts-based information there, and that's good. Now, Stortinget goes a little further and says that in this area, we can open up new technologies, apps and other educational tools to bring the information about proper drug use to the patient and also, for example, to the patient. combine it with nutrition and nutrition councils. My question is: why does the Council of State not want to do what our neighbouring countries would initially do: open up to use these educational tools a little more in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e575	I have nothing against using new tools to obtain the right information about medicines. What is important is that the information is based on information provided by the authorities and does not appear to be an advertisement for the use of the medicinal products. Taking on new educational tools is a trick, and we will follow up on that as well. It is also now working to provide better and more comprehensible information to those who use the drugs, but it is also important that this information is provided in different ways, and that the information is also provided by the doctor, among others. in connection with prescription, because it is clear that for many of us a package leaflet as it is designed today will appear quite confusing and sometimes quite daunting. When a reads the list of adverse reactions, almost one may be afraid to use the medicinal product instead of being encouraged to use it. I think a lot of people have experienced that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e580	When we know how serious antibiotic resistance will be, when we know that there are a lot of side effects of medication else, it's very strange that the government has taken out the proper drug use of the main drug policy objectives. We need a good explanation for that, and also an explanation of why it's not done anymore. One is to guide doctors and health professionals who are already in work – of course it is important. But what about education in the various health professions, which puts more emphasis on the new knowledge of side effects and antibiotic resistance in education? And does the Council of State plan to make its own research efforts in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e585	Ensuring good quality in the treatment of medicinal products is the proper use of medicinal products. That's a very clear goal with the whole message. There is reason to say that many of the tools in the notification that are in progress really show that there is something that this government is doing, is taking this issue seriously. We have been in a situation where we have agreed, for example. with regard to the review of medicinal products – which has been up and down again, everyone has agreed that this is very important, everyone has agreed on the good results this provides for the individual, yes, many have also agreed that municipalities actually save money on this, as we see – but at the same time it has not been implemented. That is why we have included in this report. Considered that much of what has now been discussed up and down for many years is actually being implemented and implemented nationally, and not least in the action plan on antibiotic resistance that is now being developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e592	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e595	In November 2012, I was involved in promoting a proposal for a future pharmaceutical policy. The result of this proposal for a representative was in February 2013 a proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party that the ‘Size asks the Government to draw up a report on medicinal products’ with a new, comprehensive review of the entire pharmaceutical policy. The left supported this proposal. Today we are dealing with such a review. The message ‘Real use — better health’ has been very well received and today also has a broad political base. Medicinal products are so much more than the usual thinking, and several have been in different aspects of the message. I'm going to focus on all the sides of the medication itself, because it's a theme that I've encountered in many different sentences. Many years ago, because of illness, I had to start taking medication every day. I remember that my doctor sat and looked back and forth – back and forth – in his medical catalogue. And I remember wondering if it was safe. The medicine I finally ended up with, seemed very good, actually so good that I wondered if I could have been cured. That's why I stopped taking my medicine. It wasn't a trick. No one had explained to me how serious it could be not to take their medications. Today, most patients have a greater chance of acquiring knowledge, at both good and bad. The data world has given us new opportunities, which Aschehoug and Gyldendal's Great Norwegian encyclopaedia didn't give me. The health service has a completely different focus on information and mastering. Much has become better, and it should be better. Medicine is an important part of people's lives. Some doctors make a survivor, others make life better, but doctors also destroy life. In Norway, there are several times as many misuses of medicines as in traffic. The World Health Organisation estimates that between 30 and 50 pst. patients treated for chronic disease do not follow recommended treatment. The drug notification points to a number of measures aimed at improving the situation. But medicines also cause side effects. That's why I'm proud that the so-called de minimis limit, which stood still for eight red-green years, is now fivefold. That means we're still getting new medications out to patients quickly. These are often medicines that produce both better effects and fewer side effects than the previous ones. We know that mismedication is taking place to a greater or lesser extent through the course of treatment. Improper use of drugs stands for 12 pst. of the patient injuries, and the misuse of medications kills. Many hospitalisations can be traced back to the misuse of medicinal products. The consequences are poor use of resources and increased sick leave. The costs for both patients and society are significant. That is why we are taking this seriously. A review of medicinal products among older people with complex disorders in general, but not least in hospitals, is an important and appropriate measure. It's at the hospital the craziest people live in, and we know they get too many drugs. They get too many medications and unfortunately also wrong medications. An overall committee asks the government to assess the guidelines on the use of antidepressants, analgesics and addictives among young people and to consider measures to limit their prescription. There is now also an overall committee supporting the requirement for regional health establishments to put in place drug-free treatment facilities. I've met too many young people and their relatives who can tell us about a use that works out of control. The young people in the Change Factory have also been very clear about this. It's too easy to print a prescription, they say. A new study from the Swedish Institute of Public Health and the Hedmark High School shows that 34 000 girls and boys under the age of 18 are now on drugs for mental illness. In particular, the use of psychopharmacies has increased sharply in girls aged 14-17 years. The mother and father of Silje Benedicte have worked a lot and a long time for a tightening up, and they are very pleased with the committee, which is now so clear and in agreement with this very thing. I have great faith in the update visits, which the committee learned about in Australia, and that all the therapists who a patient is in, actually have the right information about the drugs the patient is on, as well as start-up talks, to mention something. The doctors must focus on better follow-up to patients’ drug use. We are going to use the pharmaceuticals, and we are going to strengthen the training of health professionals in medicines and in their handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e629	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e632	The centre batch has proposed measures to combat over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicinal products. We are concerned about the increased use of such medicines, which cannot be explained by an increase in disease. We suggest that measures should be reviewed to ensure proper use and prevent over-consumption of prescription-free drugs. We believe that there is a lack of up-to-date knowledge to know how the LUA system works. In Sweden it has now been decided to stop the sale of paracetamol tablets outside pharmacies because there has been a sharp increase in the number of poisoning cases in paracetamol use. We think we have to give the poison information in Norway in order to map serious paracetamol poisonings, because there we don't have an up-to-date knowledge base. Studies on the use of the non-prescription medicinal product in adolescents show a worrying use. We believe that there is a need for a staggering effort to disseminate knowledge about the proper use of medicines. We look at national information campaigns, for example. aimed at youth schools and the scholastic services. We are concerned that the government will now allow TV advertising for non-prescription medicines. So we are making proposals against this. Today's proposals don't get any plurals. We have to accept that, but I don't accept that the representative Wold is almost laughing at the whole issue. The best treatment will in many cases be drug-free treatment. It applies to prescription-free medicinal products as well as to prescription-only medicinal products. When we assume that as many as 1 pst. of Norway’s population, 30–40,000, has been known to cause headaches, i.e. chronic headaches because a user is overly analgesic, indicating the extent of the problem addressed by the Central Party. In the debate today, many have been concerned about the misuse of medicinal products. I think it's a paradox that the interest falls in cash when we talk about prescription-free medicine – but there's as much medicine there. We know from studies among young people that 15- to 16-year-olds in Norway are taking painkillers every day or every week. One of three young people reports using paracetamol prophylaxis, 40 pst. by the girls that they use the parasite to be able to go to school and work, and one of the three girls always have the paracetamol on them. Figures from the Institute of Public Health show that only the last four years of use have increased by 15 pst. in Norway. From 1990 to 2006, use among children under the age of 12 has increased by 60 pst. This is a problem. I note that the Stortinget does not want to debate it, but in any case, we present the proposals on the part of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e654	I take the word for the medical report. I am pleased to see that a unanimous committee points out that the government should work towards the swift ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medicinal Products and Similar Acts, the so-called Medicrime Convention. It is about improving patient safety, and it is about combating organised crime. I want to focus on the issue of justice policy in this article. I believe that the Committee, with that comment, has made an important contribution to just standing united against the emergence of financial crime. Economy is the driving force behind organised crime. The organized crime is spreading. It gets better organized. The sums involved in this activity have become colossal. Unfortunately, we see that economic downturns are a growth impulse for organised crime, for illicit production and sales of prescriptions and medicines are a cynical field of action for these environments. It is therefore important that the Committee and the European Parliament thus give a clear signal that Norway should both participate in and contribute to the fight against organised crime, including those on medicines and prescriptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e664	The medicinal product notification is an incredibly important message. It is good to see that there is such a large and broad consensus around the message, and that there are really little things there is disagreement about today. That's very good. I feel a bit like the centre party is knocking open doors in what you want in the representative proposal about this. It is said that there are differences between patient groups, and that is what you really want to get in the pharmaceutical notification, but there will be a prioritisation message. It will be an important part of it, and then also the debate that the Central Party is asking for today will come in a good way, I think. No one is likely to be very surprised that I have intended to talk a little about the elderly and the medical report. I'm very proud to be part of the political majority that's now taking it seriously, because there's been a lot of media postings over several years. It's also important to note that the report actually says that the average resident in a nursing home gets seven medications, and a third of those living in a nursing home get at least one drug they don't really need. This is both about costs and not least about being medicated without needing it – and it is serious. We get a number of enquiries from relatives who claim that when they arrive, they experience that Mom and Dad are immersed in the nursing home. It's serious, and it's something that needs to be addressed. That is why I am very pleased with what is now in the pharmaceutical notification and its follow-up. I also think you should look more generally at medicines in the care of the elderly, and especially in our institutions, because I think it's much better to see if there's anything else that's important, and that can contribute in a positive way, such as. pediatric visits, music, physical activity, perhaps the smell of a good meal – that it is much more important than necessarily to use drugs to calm patients down and keep them calm. If they get the wrong medicines and the combination of them gets wrong, serious side effects may occur. The fact that we propose to oblige all municipalities to provide systematic reviews of the medicinal products of all the elderly in nursing homes is a victory for the residents and the concerned relatives. In the State budget, an overall committee supported the establishment of an obligation for municipalities to provide systematic medical reviews for patients in hospitals for which they are responsible. That's very good. The ongoing work of the Health Directorate to develop quality indicators for municipal health and care services, where medicinal products are a priority area, is very important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e677	First of all, a clarification on proposal No of the Centre Party. 5: That proposal will subsidiaryly support the Left and Christian People's Party. So until what the representative, Bård Hoksrud, was inside, was the medication of the elderly, especially in the nursing home, but more and more in the home. Here the municipalities have very different practices in registering medicines digitally, they have very different systems, and it will take a lot of years before we get a platform that is quite common, so that different parts of the healthcare system can communicate. And there's a minority here that want us to establish a common digital drug list in a transitional phase. The pharmacy association is a leading player in the field of ICT in the health sector and has a high degree of implementation. Such a common digital list of medicinal products can be used nationally across different sectors and will provide greater security. So to the proposal of the Central Party to ban television advertising for non-prescription medicinal products. For the Left, this is a matter of principle. We also want television advertising for politics. That's the one. We see no fundamental difference between it and medicines, and as the Council of State said, medicines are advertised to Norwegian TV viewers on a large scale today. I saw it at the latest one night at National Geographic, it's being sent from abroad, and to a greater extent also on online platforms. So to discriminate against Norwegian broadcast television advertising, we consider it unreasonable. Then we can discuss how to reduce the use of non-prescription medicines, but there will be another debate. Then I'll as far as I can deal with this with drugs like waste, which no one else has brought up here. The notification mentions a recent campaign, the ‘Redbox’ return scheme, such as: The Pharmacy Association, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and Norwegian Water Agency have been involved. It is important for the individual consumer, but also for the hospital sector, which is a major player here. Green hospitals have done something in this area, but we also need to look at regulation and legislation here, so that they can more effectively be imposed on the proper management of medicines, so that they do not get lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e688	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e691	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, who is dealing with waste management. I totally agree that there is a very important point that has to be addressed in the medical report, and that one has to follow up. I also thank you for being at the center when it's about drugs for the quit, it's also good. But the reason I took the floor was that I got a little bad conscience because of myself in my previous post, where I said that the Storting would not debate what we are dealing with in our representative proposal. There I was a little unfairly against the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV who, after all, support – to a little different degree – the proposals that we have made. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e698	What made me take the floor now was the Hoksruds representative's way of saying that the Center Party is actually knocking open doors into a case that can cost, and that costs, many young people major challenges. I mean it's digging your head in the sand. Misuse of medication has side effects whether you are young or old. Wrong doses are misuse, whether you are young or old. If we are to be able to prevent, we need to focus on the young first, so that they do not develop disease and use drugs incorrectly, which will cost young people, and not least health care, a lot. Just as we focus on incorrect use and over-consumption in Norwegian hospitals and hospitals, I think it is right and reasonable to focus on this. Today's youth, such as use paracetamol prevention and thus get the damage they actually get is a major challenge also for Norwegian working life, because people are home from work because of injury in their head. It's not a little matter the Center Party focuses on, it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e705	I want to support what the representative Bollestad was just up here and talking about. That is why SV is now working on a separate proposal to address the side effect issue in a slightly wider context, dealing with both the training of health professionals, research in this area and how it is actually and practically handled at all levels of healthcare. Then we also have to, of course, discuss side effects and injuries associated with prescription-free medications. Because there's no doubt, to say it like that, that there's no candy you put in, that's what you can actually get sick of. But there are also things that are very helpful when you're using it the right way. I've sometimes eaten and said that I think there might be as many people in Norway who get sick too much as too little medicine. I think that's an underestimated, big social problem. It destroys the lives of some people without them realizing what's going on, and without it looking like the doctor understands what's going on. The second is that there are also large social costs associated with the side effects that put people out of play altogether. It's not just the body, but also the head, which sometimes stops completely, and which makes you actually not working. It happens when you take something you thought you'd be good at, and it's a big paradox. In Sweden and Denmark, the large research environment is linked to this. When we discuss this in Norway, we always have a discussion about drug policy, but this is not about drugs, it's about side effects of very common drug use, and it's not necessarily about over-use. Bodys are different, they react differently, and some get serious side effects even at therapeutic doses of what is considered quite common. I just want to inform you that SV will come back to this, so we can discuss it and see if there are systematic deficiencies in our work on side effects that it is possible to correct. It also applies on the research page, where there is a need to know more about this, so that people get healthy, not sick, of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e716	The important thing is at least that people get better from drugs – that's why they get drugs, not because they're going to get sick or bad, so there I fully agree with Andersen's representative. But I wonder if the representatives Andersen and Bollestad actually heard what I was concerned about. When I talked about the proposal for the Central Party, it was precisely this that the representative Toppe was concerned about, around the distribution of bias and prioritisation. The prioritisation message came, and it was in connection with the one I said you would open the doors. Of course, I fully agree with both the representative of Bollestad and the representative of Andersen that mis-medication, misuse and the development of the side effects and consequences of the use of drugs are extremely important, and I also believe that there is something that you are concerned about, something that the Minister of Health is concerned about, and something that those who are involved with medicines are dedicated to informing about: the consequences and the side effects. I think that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos actually said it quite well. She said how important it is actually to know the consequences of not using drugs, and the consequences of using drugs, and the side effects of them. So this is a very important work, and I fully agree with that. But that was not my comment. It was concerned with the priorities of types of medicinal products and different patient groups — the priorities that lie there was the whole purpose of the article. I mean, yes, it's very important that older people get medication right, and it's very important that young people get good information, so you're aware that there's some consequences to using drugs. It's also something that's individual to each one. I think it's been a good debate, and it shows that we're quite broadly in agreement, and the things we're discussing are a very small part of the huge and important thing that the drug notification is. In fact, I also feel that both the industry and the organisations are very satisfied with the pharmaceutical notification that has been submitted and with the decisions that are being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e729	A fifth objective of medicinal policy was called for: proper use. The first objective is to ensure good quality in the treatment of medicines, and for me it is the right use. I would also like to remind you that the title of the whole message is ‘Real use — better health’, and the whole message is soaked by it. But enough about it. There has been talk of priority and open doors and such. To put it that way: there are plenty of doors to access in the health sector, including in the field of medical policy, and I would like people to open doors – both open and closed. But I do not feel that someone has turned in a single door that did not have to be pointed at here today. There are important areas of pharmaceutical policy that have been discussed today. Although I do not vote for all the proposals, I would not say that they are wrong, or that they are entirely on the ground or something like that, but we do not agree with everything that has been promoted. As far as priority is concerned, an important argument for us in the Right is when we stand behind the priority system we have today, with the decision-making forum and the way things are taken on reimbursement, is that it is precisely a priority step to ensure that it is not the strongest right, to ensure that the weak groups too are heard. We're talking about major public diseases, we're talking about large disease groups that are always on the front page when we're talking about disease. But who's talking about the little diseases? We're talking about cancers that are big, but no one's talking about the small cancers. Therefore, it is important that we have strong professional environments that help us when these decisions are taken. It is suggested in the debate that the government has allowed pressure to be exerted on industrial information and industry to participate in the end-user information work. What the committee has done, as I experience it, is to clarify what comes from the government, namely that industry should be invited into tripartite cooperation. We then point out that it must also be possible for them to inform the end-user, and to participate in the information work with the information they have. As Harald T. Nesvik said in a debate, it's like selling an F-16 without permission to send with an instruction book when the industry is not allowed to inform about their most complex drugs. That's what we think of this. So to TV advertising: To me, it's not a fundamental question, but I think it's strange when TV advertising for drugs is legal on foreign channels and on television, and with the big changes we see in television distribution – it's quite topical this week – that only the few people who send from Norway are going to have that ban. This is a ban that will affect TV2 and TVNorway – for those who currently have TVNorway – and it is strange that it should be where the border is going. To the discussion about over-consumption: I dare to remember that it is a goal that the consumption is turned from strong painkillers to paracetamol, and that the increase in the sale of paracetamol occurs in medical prescriptions, not in prescription-free sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e746	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e760	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of up to five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the insertion of a member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e767	The Committee has examined the SV’s draft representative on time use and staffing in the care of elderly people in Norway. The background to the proposal is that in Norway, the proportion of people who become ill and need care will increase in the future. The Health and Welfare Committee is concerned with Norwegian care for the elderly, and shows in this case and many other matters we are dealing with that the entire Committee has a warm and important commitment for better health care for the nursing and sick elderly. This is a good starting point for important discussions, but also for the development, innovation and improvement of this important area in the years to come. The Right Party and the Advance Party are, in very good cooperation with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, in the process of bringing about great, important increases in the care of the elderly, among others. by legislating rights to the care and care of the lucky day and to work on a safety standard for nursing homes. And finally, fortunately, there are many dedicated and competent employees in municipal health and care services, but they lack a tool to ensure good quality and professional practice. We probably don't need too many more laws and regulations, but a better system to comply with the law we already have. Safety standards shall be a concrete tool for employees to operate the legal requirements and standards we have for the quality of nursing homes. There is no majority in the Committee to ask the government to issue a national standard for nursing homes. In the Right, we believe that the quality of services is not just about several hands, but that we ensure that municipalities work systematically and with a focus on raising their skills and quality. For this reason, the government has placed a high level of competence on the agenda, both through initial, continuing and continuing training of health professionals and through management training in municipal care. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure adequate and competent staff meeting the needs of residents, including a central part of the work on health care standards for nursing homes. An overall committee shares the basic view that all people need freedom to make their own choices and to decide on their own everyday lives, and that this also applies to caring elderly people. On the other hand, there is no majority in the Committee to introduce what SV calls 'cut cards' in the home service. For the Right, freedom of choice in the care of the elderly is a crucial issue of value. Today, the individual caregiver needs to adapt to the system, rather than the system adapting to the needs of the caregiver. In the right, we believe how we organise services in the future, and in what way we involve users and relatives to a greater extent, will be decisive for whether older people achieve real freedom of choice. Such freedom of choice is difficult to realize in a system where the municipalities grant assistance by decision and where the user has little influence on who performs the tasks. In the Right, therefore, we believe that future care for the elderly will have to be influenced by much more real patient and dependant power than is the case today. We believe that the future primary health service of the future shows how new ways of organising work can contribute to more continuity, greater patient involvement and better health care for older people in municipalities – a growth report and a policy choice in the care of the elderly, which was widely endorsed here in Stortinget. As I know SV's ideology, they're concerned with fair distribution. Then it puzzles me that the party uses a term such as ‘stopper care’ in Norwegian care for the elderly and attacks important management parameters such as time use, forms and standards. In the Right, we believe that transparency about quality and results in Norwegian care for elderly people is important and crucial both for good decision-making in municipalities and for the need for transparency in the population, a transparency that will ensure that resources are distributed fairly, and that we are able to take better care of those who need it most. Then we need a set of tools to measure where and how the money is spent in health and care services, and what the result is. But at the same time, there is a great deal of room – and certainly an improvement potential – to use good professional judgement in the meeting between patients and caregivers. The most important work we do in this context is to strengthen the competence of the sector. Today, about 35,000 of those who work in nursing care are completely without health education. They're guaranteed to make a great effort. At the same time, it is vital that we increase our competence to ensure good quality and correct decisions in care situations. Here, the government has launched a series of actions through Competence Commitment 2020 and by now introducing competence requirements into the Health and Welfare Services Act. Strengthening competence is a prerequisite for the exercise of good professional judgement by employees in municipal health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e795	We need a broad national effort to give equal and good care to all older people who need it, with services tailored to individual needs. This means that we need better manning, broader and more competence and clearer quality of care. It was the government of Stoltenberg II that launched the Competence Plan 2015, which, over the eight-year period, helped to increase the number of annual jobs in the care sector by over 22,000, of which 80 pst. had relevant health and social education. Despite such growth, we know that in the years to come we will need even more competent people in the sector – not least in order to provide care for an increasing number of older people. Many of the oldest will probably also be affected by dementia. In this proposal for a representative, the proposers argue that rigid stopwatch care dominates too many municipalities, and that municipalities should have more confidence that older people, together with competent staff, can assess the kind of help each individual needs. The Workers' Party shares the vision of more trust in the care of the elderly and aims to enable people receiving care to decide on the elements of the services received, within defined frameworks. If we are to succeed in doing so, we must red tape the care of the elderly and give greater responsibility and trust to the staff. The Workers' Party, like the proposers, would therefore like to try out a trust reform in the care of the elderly, which means placing far greater emphasis on the professional competence and assessment of the staff in the services. Greater confidence in the professional perspective and less control are important keywords here. There are good experiences in several countries with such a way of thinking. Among other things, since 2012, one has had such a project in Copenhagen, and it is a bet that has inspired more. There are now attempts in red-green run cities with a type of trust reform in care and care. This applies, for example: Oslo and Tromsø, and I know that red-green municipal parties in many cities are planning to get rid of both order-executor models and not least say no to poor and expensive privatisation solutions for the care of the elderly. New ideas in the elderly policy need to emphasise that experience and activity need to be much more an integral part of care for the elderly — which is also linked to the previous debate we had here, not least with drug use and over-use of drugs in the care of the elderly. Cultural offers, such as: offered through the Cultural Spa, helping to make everyday life richer for many older people throughout the country. Therefore, the Labour Party in our budgetary priorities – unlike the government – has focused on strengthening and continuing this scheme. Non-governmental organisations are also important, which, in interaction with municipalities, can contribute to the participation of older people in different types of activities. This is also underlined in the big message presented on the Red-Green Guard, called Tomorrow's Care, which provides for an even closer cooperation between the municipality, volunteering, relatives and the community to give older people an active and good old age. The proposers are called upon to legislate a quantitative recruitment standard applicable in all hospitals and municipalities. The working party believes that sufficient and professionally competent staff is fully capable of providing good quality services. However, because the needs are very individual and thus very different institutions and municipalities between them, we want to develop a quality standard that meets concrete and broadly defined quality objectives, based on the needs and assessments of the individual user. Such a standard must be able to be linked to new and more accurate ways of financing, where services are measured against the described quality, with room for local road choices. The Labour Party supports the proposal that the government should invite municipalities to participate in attempts to cooperate on a trust reform in home services and that the design of the individual trials be carried out in consultation with the test municipalities. Then I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting together with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e816	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e819	I am glad that SV finally find the care of the elderly worth a suggestion. At the same time, I was a little surprised, because they voted in their time in majority rule down the proposals of the Progress Party on something similar – let me mention the standard of staffing, medical coverage in hospitals and state funding of care services. These are proposals for good solutions that the Progress Party believes can best be realised with state funding of care services – such as care for the elderly. I'm very excited about deciding a norm, as SV suggests. SV has now assumed responsibility for this in the largest municipality in Norway, Oslo, where the emphasis does not seem to be on either staffing or more time for patients – rather on the contrary. One wants the privatisation to life and chooses to add these areas to the municipality. Had the proposal been credible, I would have wholeheartedly supported it, because we agree that the elderly deserve both time and care. SV admits that there is varying quality in the care of elderly people around the country. Nevertheless, the ideology is that the municipalities themselves should operate, stronger than the need and desire of the inhabitants and the relatives. The otherwise strong driving force of the State as a steering factor is totally absent from SV in the case of care for the elderly. If they had meant what they were proposing, they could support state funding for care services, for which there was a majority in the State budget. Even the Workers' Party supported Model B, which is a designation of more money for municipalities. Ideology was in front of the interest in caring about the individual – again. Suddenly, they believe that the elderly need to be more able to help and control the help they receive. They will vote it down when the government budget is to be given priority. They don't want free user choice. It is so easy to propose a number of expenditures a few months after the budget has been adopted. There is no provision for anyone to choose anything, other than that the municipality and the state should own or operate – just not the care of the elderly. It is sad that one can powder such a good intention as better manning and more time for the inhabitants without being able to show it when the decisions are taken, namely in the relatively recently adopted state budget. The trust reforms they refer to, affect many older people who call me weekly and complain that the service is weakened after just SV took over power. Because both power and ideology are more important than respect and the security of the individual, you can see that it goes against those who really need it, namely care and care spaces around the country. Just to take a few examples: I have experienced that SV was to have more hospitals, but after they got the City Council in Oslo, the city council was on an excursion and visited both the one and the other districts and found out that they wanted fewer institutions, such as hospitals, and more at home. Providing adequate institutional facilities for the elderly in this country is a major challenge. Or to go to Haugesund, another municipality where the red-greens took over after the election: they wanted to move 90 people into double rooms that in many cases were really single rooms. It is the old-age care of red-green politicians who lead around the country, and it is at least an old-age care that the Progress Party does not want. That's exactly why we're promoting a proposal, and I'm glad that we've got with the government and the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left to test out an attempt to fund state care services. And then we'll see if that's not the good solution. We believe at least that it will be the good solution when you get to test this out in some of the municipalities of the country and we'll see the results. Then the state will ensure that if you need a place and you meet the criteria and the requirements for a place, you will have it, regardless of the municipality's financial situation. It is a good solution for care for the elderly. I think that if we are to succeed in solving the challenges in the care of the elderly, we must ensure that responsibility is added to the state, that it is our responsibility, and that local politicians cannot choose to deprioritize if they do not want to give priority to care for the elderly, for the elderly who need a place, should have that place when they need it, and not depend on whether the municipality has good or bad finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e836	This representative proposal from the SV’s representatives is a very important and, unfortunately, very timely proposal. I'll do my best for the Centre Party's position on the various proposals. We are quite a few in that it should and must be a goal that people who receive care services should be able to determine their own parts of the service – that the service must be flexible. It does not get one without one capable of emphasising the competences and assessment capabilities of those adding more than is the case in today's service provision. It is therefore necessary to remove unnecessary red tape and it is necessary to authorise them to place the necessary decisions on the order without having to do so with written applications, other case handlers and, where appropriate, a waiting period of several weeks, as stated in the proposal. I can confirm that it can also be spoken in months. We therefore support the SV's proposal to invite municipalities to cooperate on a trust reform in the home services. There are interesting attempts that are now being made in some municipalities. That gives hope. To the proposal for a government support scheme for municipalities that will try to determine themselves, so-called cut cards: we are quite a few in the idea, or the proposal itself, of a cut card: that the recipient must be able to dispose of the services itself – within a frame – for which help is to be used. What we are opposed to is a system of support for this. We believe that this must enable the municipalities to implement economic and self-government on their own initiative, and we have great faith in that can be done. In the debate I noticed that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen was very concerned with raising his skills, and I agree with that. At the same time, very serious human rights violations have been detected in Norwegian care for the elderly, and we are well aware that lack of adequate staffing poses a risk to quality and patient safety. We refer to what is also stated in the proposal, the report by the Welfare Research Institute, NOVA, from 2014, which tells – from the point of view of reality – that adding a lot of time pressure to the services, they experience daily or weekly that the time for each patient does not go by. The report also points to a very strong correlation between the work environment and experienced quality for patients and to the relationship between staffing in hospitals at different times – i.e. the number of nurses per patient – and experienced quality of services. We're going to talk a lot about skills enhancement and quality, but we don't have to underestimate what manning actually means. Difor is the proposal for a crew norm very, very understandable. When the Center Party still doesn't vote for it, it's not because we're not busy increasing the crew, there's more ratios. One is that I record that the Council of State itself, in response to the Committee, is ineffective – at least for me – in terms of what the government actually plans to come with. Shall they bring a mandatory standard, or shall they provide a manning and quality guide? We have experience that a manning and quality guide combined with financial arrangements can also lead to a lifting of the crew. With a mandatory norm, the danger is that there will be a minimum standard, and that the norm may be so low that it has no great value. Will the norms that come, perhaps, be the same practice in many municipalities today? For example, at night it is very common to have one health professional per 16 patients and one nurse per 32. It's an absolute minimum, and I've seen for myself that there can be quite a lot of situations. Especially for the fragile elderly, there is a crew that I think should be raised. We're waiting for what the government is actually coming with. The central party will be very clear about that, regardless of the standard of manpower or guidance, the municipal economy is the decisive one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e853	The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that low staffing is a challenge in the care of the elderly. The Christian People's Party believes that we, as politicians, also in the care of the elderly, should focus on labour pressure, on the working environment, on experienced quality for patients and not least on experienced quality of services. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential to ensure adequate competence among its employees. That's why we wanted to start with doctors in the budget, because patients in Norwegian nursing homes today are sicker than ever, and that's why we had to start where there's the lowest number of people: with the number of doctors. More and more people live longer. Many want to stay at home as far as possible. But there's actually too many stories about patients becoming caste balls, or almost a parcel post, between hospitals and municipalities. There is not good enough offer for those who need it there and then. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that a proposal for a right to a hospital place for those who need it according to medical criteria has been sent to the hearing, that one actually has to monitor the waiting list needs in the municipalities – not only on the crew side, but also on the place side – that an actual storage place according to medical criteria. This is also a strengthening of a current right. We say you have the right to hospitalization, but yet people experience different rejections. That is why we have to think of national criteria that ensure that we actually get that right. The space shall be there when the need exists and the crew and the quality shall be there thereafter. The Christian People’s Party is also pleased with the response of the Council of States in a letter in October 2015 stating that several actors should participate in the development of a safety standard to ensure good practice in hospitals, and that there should be a basis for assessing the need and alignment of work on the norm and guidance for staffing and quality. Then the Christian People's Party thinks: the reason we don't support SV now is that we also want to wait and see what norm and what quality is being laid. Because we have no doubt that the type of patients in Norwegian nursing homes is different today than before. We have to take our offer after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e866	First, I would like to promote the proposals on the case from SV. SV prioritises the care of the elderly so high that we have actually given the municipality sector 6 billion. more than the government and the majority have done, and we have invested money for both increased staffing and for trust reform and for attempts where older sails will be allowed to have a little more influence on what they are actually getting. That's why it's very curative to hear from the Progress Party that they're really in favour of what SV suggests, but they're not in favour. For the same reason – probably – that SV did not get a pass on this when we were in government, the Progress Party has not got it at this time either. You could be honest with that. This is in the sequence of a little sad downgradings, where the majority of people have also managed to vote down that they want an overview of the human rights of the elderly. Because it's so serious that the human rights of the elderly are broken. What do you need? Well, you need enough time for care, care and quality. Competence is important. No one disagrees. But those with the skills must have time to do their job and the freedom to do the job according to their skills. It is absolutely curative also to hear the case rapporteur, from the Right, who speaks as if having increased competence or quality criteria is opposed to having more employees, and that then you are kind of not concerned with the quality. That's exactly what you are, you're concerned that there will be enough staff to carry out the quality you say it should be, and it's not today. That's what the older people say, that's what the employees say, and I don't think they're leaning. We want a system where it is possible to implement the quality that I think we all agree that the older ones deserve. It's also the case that in this sector there is a sick leave that is higher than in any other area, and I think it's partly because many people have so little time to do the job they've learned how to do, and have a conscience for how to do it, that they actually get bad. In this sector, the tasks are endless and the professional and moral requirements are very high, but time and energy do not go on. Care and care are relationships. There must be time for relationship, you can't have a relationship through some system, as the rapporteur talks about. It must be people who meet. SV also wants older people to have more freedom to choose what they actually need – that is what this is all about. While the right-hand side is concerned that there should be private suppliers, so you should be able to choose one or the other home, SV is concerned that older people should be able to choose more freely what they want to spend the time they get. It's a real freedom – not who's going to do the job, but what. There is also an ugly side to the privatisation and tendering policy that the government is engaged in, namely that a lot of money disappears to the suppliers, and it systematically affects the pensions and wages of those who are going to do the job. There is no good recipe for quality in the future and for recruiting very many who we need to get into this sector in the future. I am very disappointed that there will not be a majority for these very obviously important proposals, which would make care for the elderly better, and which – well, that’s where it snaps – would push forward higher government appropriations for the care of the elderly and for the municipalities, because there is a need. This is not solved without being willing to put money on the table, and it is SV willing to do so. So here's a lot of nice words, but there's too little willingness to prioritize the money that's going to do the elderly care well, that's enough money for employees. Finally, transparency, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. I think I have to remind the case rapporteur and the Right that it is the Right who has voted against proposals in this Chamber also on transparency in these areas, on criteria for tenders, which have been kept secret today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e883	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e886	Like the proposers, the government is concerned with the quality and freedom of choice of health and care services. I want to create the patient's health and care service and believe competence is the key to this work. Good, efficient and secure services require good competence at the right level, in the right place and at the right time. Good competence is also a prerequisite for the good professional judgement that proposers demand. Ensuring that the municipal health and care service has access to adequate and competent labour is therefore a key concern of this government. Competence in 2020 is the government’s plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services. The 2016 budget provides for approximately 1.2 billion. kr for follow-up to measures in Competence Plan 2020. Proper competence in health and care services is so essential that it should be demonstrated by law. Therefore, the government will reverse the removal by the previous government of the competence requirements of the Health and Welfare Services Act. The listing will not be exhaustive, but will indicate the core competence of each municipality. In addition, municipalities shall be free to assess the personnel they need to provide necessary and sound health and care services, taking into account local circumstances and needs. Furthermore, the government will look at the content of health and social education and further education and will assess the need for change and whether some training should qualify for new roles and tasks. The aim is that training should be more adapted to the needs of the service. The exercise of good professional judgement depends not only on proper and adequate competence but also – and not least – on good management, good information and good decision-making systems. Good management is required in order to develop services and change the way they work. It is about planning, implementing, evaluating and, where appropriate, correcting actions, so that services evolve in a good way. The Government will therefore make clearer requirements for management and improved access to management training. We have established a national leadership training for primary health services. Furthermore, I have taken the initiative to set up a joint senior management programme for the specialist health service and the municipal health and care services. We have also commissioned the Health Directorate to develop a separate safety standard for nursing homes. The security standard shall include, inter alia: concrete how to ensure good management, organisation and professional practice in nursing homes. The user and related organisations, professional organisations and KS have agreed to participate in the project management group. This work will provide a basis for assessing the need for and arrangements for the work of a crew and quality norm/guidance guide. I have also asked the Health Directorate to develop quality indicators, among others. based on user and family experience and national user and related studies, and we will establish a municipal patient and user register. These are instruments that have several purposes. They may support internal quality improvement, business management and health management. User surveys and quality indicators may also be used by users to compare the quality of the choice of service provider or place of service. Today, municipalities have great freedom to decide how to organise services. I still expect them to dare to think new. As it is today, the services are usually organised according to the needs of the personnel and not the needs of the users. Creating the patient’s health and care services is also about organising the service based on the needs and needs of its users. Proposals refer to various municipal measures to ensure good manning, quality and professional judgement in the service, including: the attempt to introduce a trust reform in the Home Office of Oslo. It is an attempt that I would like to welcome, and that was initiated by the previous senior agent Aud Kvalbein from the Christian People's Party. I am absolutely sure that we will also gain good experience here, in line with the experience that we have, among other things. has had similar reforms in the Netherlands. After all, we also invited the main health and care conference of last year to the founder of the Buurtsorg organisation in the Netherlands to inspire leaders in the municipal health and care service throughout Norway to learn from this kind of experience. Trust in employees and their ability to provide good services and organise the service is important, but it is also important to have confidence that older people are able to make good choices on their own behalf. It is therefore surprising that a party so committed to trust in the relationships of employees is so committed to removing the possibility for older people to choose between different actors in the exercise of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e913	The rapporteur mentioned that a legislative proposal to legislate for the right to hospitalisation was sent to the hearing. I must mention that the hearing bodies that have expressed themselves strongly oppose this proposal – KS, the Health Directorate, the Law Association, the Medical Association and, in particular, the patient and user representatives. They argue that such a right already exists, and that the bill, as it is formulated, will weaken rather than strengthen the rights of the elderly. Care light says this: ‘The proposals for new legal provisions are unnecessary, inappropriate and sometimes impossible to implement, and will also provide less legal certainty for patients and users and additional work and increased costs for municipalities.’ My question to the Minister of Health is, when he has now been given consideration, whether he will still claim, as he has done in the past, that he does not intend to listen to these objections. I hope I get an answer and not a counter-attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e923	The representative will get a very clear answer. What has been sent to the hearing will mainly be carried out as sent to the hearing, and precisely because one of the groups not addressed by the representative is those who represent the users in this context. They are very clear on the support for the proposal. The patient and user representatives are employed by the public, but the organisations representing the users are very clear on the support. One of the things that they're bringing forward is that they want to end the black player game that has been in this area under the leadership of the Workers' Party, that is, that my predecessors have stood by saying that patients are entitled to good luck and care, that waiting lists are forbidden, while everyone has known that there are unofficial waiting lists in very many municipalities. However, the patient’s legal certainty has not been sufficiently ensured in the existing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e928	I'm a little surprised at that answer, because the patient and user representatives, who speak the case of patients and users, agree that this is bad. I believe that when you have a bill, you must also listen to the legal competence, which says that this is a bad proposal that will weaken the rights. You also talk about waiting lists, that waiting lists do not give any rights in themselves. There is nothing wrong with today’s practice and legislation that municipalities can provide an overview of their citizens’ and citizens’ needs and set up all the waiting lists you want. That is why I ask again: is the Minister of Health really not willing to look at the wording, look at what he has sent out at the hearing, to see if it can actually be better, and that you can strengthen the rights that are already there, instead of starting to create new rules that may even prove to be worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e935	Of course, I'm going to look at the hearings and see if it's possible to make a good proposal even better, but it's totally inappropriate to put away what the government and the cooperation parties agree on, namely to introduce the statutory right to the care and care of lucky people, which will mean that users who need the care and care of lucky people will have a decision on it. They then know that the municipality has seen their needs, and have the opportunity to complain if the municipality has not seen their needs. I would also like to distance myself from the situation that the representative here describes, namely that it is up to each municipality to assess whether it is appropriate to keep that type of overview. No, we want municipalities to keep the kind of overviews, precisely because it will also clarify the undercover of today's places of care and care, and give local politicians more opportunity to plan faster and better use of the day's care and care – and not to do what the new city council does in Oslo: put down lucky places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e942	It was interesting, what the health minister now said, that he would oblige the municipalities to keep track of waiting lists. Does this also mean assigning a person and telling him which place on a list to which he or she is located and how long he or she may have to wait? Is that how the Health Minister thinks of a waiting list?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e947	This is exactly the same principle on which the Patient Rights Act is based, including in the case of specialist healthcare. I want to remind the representative that when we introduced patients' rights in Norway, the big step was that patients actually got on a waiting list, so that the need was made visible, but also that patients were actually given a right to receive treatment. It's the exact same principle that this is based on. Yes, both patients and users should be informed that they have been granted or that the need for, luckily care and care has been addressed. Then people will understand that they will have that need satisfied when there is a free space. In the meantime, of course, they must be sure to receive sound health care, but not to experience what they are receiving today, preferably decisions on reinforced home-based services, although everyone understands that what they really need is a place of good care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e952	I was a little surprised when I read the Council of State's response to the committee on this matter, because I thought that the government party and the cooperation party were some about introducing a crew norm. However, the answer says that the government has invited user and related organisations, professional organisations and KS to participate in the project management group in the context of the development of the security standard. It also says: ‘This work will provide a basis for assessing the needs and arrangements of the work with the crew and quality norm/guidance guide.’ So my question is, is it that the government isn't sure whether or not to introduce a staffing norm, that one rather assesses a counsellor, and that this isn't clarified yet?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e962	As I have answered the representative Lighthouse quite many times, through the safety standard we will also make demands for manning. But it's very important that this is done wisely, so one does not get into a situation where, for example, one. only counts the number of hands and believes that it is the main quality indicator of services. There is a need to be seen in the context of competence, management and good management systems, to ensure that we contribute to the achievement of better service quality. If not, a very quick one can end up counting to the number of employees and think that's what tells us if there's good quality of service or one. So we're going to do what's in the government statement, but we're going to do it in a good way, which leads to the result, that's better quality of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e967	While SV is concerned that older people will get better and more help and even decide more on what they should have help for, I hear that the Council of State believes it is most important what kind of company name it stands on the coat of the one giving the help, and that it should be a great freedom for the elderly. It's not. What we all agree on, is that you have to have good competence in care. But the point must be that you can use the skills you have, and that there are not so few employees at work that you have to exercise violence on that competence by not being able to provide the quality service, not having time for, for example. having a good relationship and comforting people who are sick and afraid. That's a very important part of the work in the care of the elderly. How will the Council of State ensure that there are enough staff to apply the competence of the quality parameters that I understand the government will provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e976	What we're doing is constantly strengthening the ability of municipalities to hire more people. We also help to give municipalities the right competence in the services. That is why so much money has now been allocated – as I also said in my post – over 1 billion kroner. kr in 2016, just for different competence measures. Here there is a distinction between what was the previous government approach to these issues and what is the approach of this government. While a consistent under previous government just talked about more warm hands, this government is talking about more wise heads. What we see from the experience of the different municipalities, among other things. from the district of Kristiansand, right-hand-driven, Kristiansand, that municipalities that have a systematic commitment to the competence, management and good organisation of services are precisely those that achieve the objective – quality of services. SV goes wild by just counting without looking at the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e982	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e987	I can't get away from the unpleasant feeling that the government is doing some troubles that don't necessarily give better care for the elderly. I was unable to get what the Health Minister said in the change of line. The aim is to create a new law where there is already a law, instead of enabling municipalities to provide good care for the elderly, for example. with good funding of municipalities. The fact that you need wise heads, people who are educated, and who have professionalism, and not least an ethical reflection on what you're doing, we fully agree. To the representative of Bård Hoksrud, who spoke so beautifully about the state taking over the financing of the care of the elderly: No, that is not what the state has done. In these model trials, which only 18 municipalities want, the state has confiscated the municipal money and put on 4 pst. I have traveled around and heard many people who are sorry, and who have treated themselves to be part of these trials. The Labour Party is basically open to all sorts of proposals that can improve care for the elderly, but we see that this rigid governance, with increased bureaucracy, is not the way to go. I also find it strange to say from the government that the most important freedom of choice that patients and older people can have is choosing a company. I am soon part of the older garden – someone will say I am doing it – and may need services. How am I going to know what the different companies represent, which has gradually become a pretty up-and-coming lady? What are they for? They provide services that are determined by the municipality. What's important if I can choose, is at the personal level to decide a little bit within some framework what I want of services, what to be the content of this day, and that there are professionally competent people coming. That's what people want. It's not company, it's private solutions. I have not yet seen anyone go in a torch for private solutions. On the other hand, there have been too good public services across the country, and the government should soon begin to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e996	You have to be quite sick in Norway before you get a sick home place now. It's been quite a long time, and I think if I'm so sick, I won't be a customer. Then I want the Minister of Health, the Stortinget and the municipality to have made sure that there is a good place for me to stay there. But when I get there or get help at home, I will have the opportunity to decide on the content of the help I get. Having good care for the elderly is not about being able to choose from something that you do not think is bad. The elderly care that is not good enough for me is not good enough for anyone – not for the health minister or representative Hoksrud either, I hope. It cannot be that you should choose away and act as a customer when you are as ill as you are. Then it's our duty to ensure that that competence is there, that there are enough people, and that you get help – that's what we're concerned about. We're concerned about that freedom for the elderly, that they should have it. And we're busy with the freedom of employees to use their skills as they've learned, and as it says in all documents, big messages and I don't know what. No one wants a poor care for the elderly, but there must be enough people there to have a care for the elderly, and they must be allowed to do their job. I have this quite close to myself for the time being. I have an older mother who needs help. It's not like she's longing to choose another nursing home. No, she'd like to have room in the nursing home that's nearby, when she needs it. That's what's the point, and that there are enough people there to give her care and care for the quality that she obviously needs. It's about someone there to do that job. I am very amazed at the Minister of Health who, like, rejects this completely, and says that it is only competence and management. No one disagrees that competence and management are necessary, but that is not enough. It's not enough when people don't have time for the old ones. In the previous debate, for example: We discussed nursing homes, dents, medications, etc. When demente lies and shouts and shouts, and no one has time to talk to them and realize that they are really sick and have it hurt, and they are instead put into medicine, then there's something wrong. It's not about those who work there not realizing that this job should have been done, and they don't want time for it, but they tell us they're too few at work. Then a standard of personnel is needed, so that the government is also involved in paying that bill. It doesn't now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1007	I think there's a reason to take a little step back now. We produce Norwegian care for the elderly as if it were a crisis everywhere. Tomorrow I'm going to Municipal Blaker's nursing home, and I'm happy – I've been following them on Facebook for a long time. There is so much good going on in Norwegian care for the elderly. It cannot be left after this debate that there is only despair and dismay out there. But there's reason to point out some things. The Red-Green Government implemented and introduced the Cooperation Reform very quickly, before Norwegian municipalities had time to prepare. We see that in the Riksrevisions' very recent report. We also see that in the report on human rights violations in the care of the elderly. So when the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen says she's busy with smart heads, we don't understand why there was no requirement for competence in the Health and Care Services Act at the time. Yes, we're going to have skilled professionals in place. Yes, there are skilled professionals who can provide quality and who can use their professional judgement in the care of the elderly. Then we have to get this in place, and I'm glad that our government does. It is always interesting to listen to representatives on the left, such as Karin Andersen and Tove Karoline Knutsen, who repeat and repeat the myths of private actors. For those of us who are concerned with the facts in this debate, there is absolutely no more privatisation in Norwegian care for the elderly. There are a few places that are paid privately in Norwegian care for the elderly today. 89 pst. of Norwegian elderly care is operated by municipal actors, 6 pst. is privately operated, 5 pst. is powered ideally, and nearly 100 pst. is publicly paid care. So making older people as customers in this picture, I think I'm completely wrong. It is absolutely not a competitive outing to fear in Norwegian care for the elderly. What we're going to fear is that there are so many variations. Municipalities must take their responsibilities seriously. Private actors are absolutely competitive in retirement. They have a low level of sick leave, and they have a very high level of satisfied patients and users. In fact, I believe that if private operators are produced in this market as something quite different from what they actually are, they have to go into and read out. They are quality suppliers of Norwegian care for the elderly. Employees are satisfied, and patients are satisfied. What we're going to see is that some municipalities choose to re-communalize, like in Bergen, where you go in with open eyes and then lose 4 million. kr per year for the re-municipalisation of two nursing homes. Then you have to look at your constituents in your eyes and explain why the four million could not have been spent on more patient treatment, when both patients and employees want it to continue as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1022	I also think it is important to focus on the fact that there are actually thousands of people in the care and care sector today who go out every single day and do a fantastic job to provide those who need care and care, a best offer. I hear that SV says that they have put money into the municipalities. Yeah, that's right, but local politicians spend the money on whatever they want. They can use them on exactly what they want, because there's often free money, and that's because SV and the other parties are often occupied with. Then you're busy having more staff. Yes, the Progress Party wants more crewing, we want more crewing, and it is also inside what the government is working to get in place. But it's also about empowerment. It was also said by the representative from SV, but the SV was involved in the previous period, removing the requirement of competence for those who were going to work in a nursing home and in the care sector. That's what this government is now making sure to get back in place, that you should actually have people with the right skills and with the skills to be there, and that the requirement that the previous government has removed is no longer gone. So to the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, what I see is that what she's really asking for is free user choice. She wants the opportunity to choose. But then you're so terrified that some private people should be able to deliver these services. It may seem that the private services are poorer, and that you are afraid of what the name of your shirt or coat is. I think – at least it’s my experience when I travel around the country – that regardless of who you work for, you provide good services. You provide warm hands and good care services regardless of who you deliver to. I have traveled quite a lot around the country and visited both nursing homes, nursing homes and other forms of services and ways of organizing. Yeah, it's a requirement out there that you have to increase your crew because it's too low a crew. There's something the government is working on, and that's in this. But it also has to be done with competence. Competence is incredibly important. When it comes to manning, you should look at page 4 of the setting. It is very clear that the majority also believe that manning is an important factor. There have almost been attempts to pretend that the Minister of Health was only concerned with competence and not staffing, but the government is also very concerned that we need to get a better crew. I believe that what the government is doing is getting on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1035	There is no doubt that Norwegian care for the elderly is very good, and focusing on the lack of time for individuals is a way of talking about Norwegian care for the elderly, talking up the employees who run off their legs every day, who have too little resources and too little time for each elderly person and patient. A little time is the same as poor care. I think we have to try to agree on that. We fully agree that skills are important, that leadership is important, and that organisation is important. That is not what this debate is really going on. Copenhagen has done something exciting. Why don't we try it more in Norway – a trust reform? But I have to say that the case rapporteur surprised me a little when she said that it is unfair to point out that there is a problem with stopping time in many Norwegian municipalities in the care of the elderly, because then you have to take away someone. No, what's unfair is that one gives tax cuts to the richest in this country and spends too little money on the municipalities and the care of the elderly. It's unfair. That's where the welfare challenges lie. It is a general distribution of the bias of resources. What's unfair is to set the elderly up against each other and the nagging up against each other, as the case-rapporteur here tries to say – that if someone wants more time, others get less time. No, there needs to be more time and more resources. That's what the challenge is. If one continues the care of the elderly as one sees in many municipalities today, with too little time and with employees running off their legs, it gives less care, it gives more sick employees, and it gives at all a socio-economic downside. So we're going to be humble and admit that of course not everything was perfect under our government. Of course, there are labour party-driven municipalities where there is absolutely good reason to look at the care of the elderly and its quality. But that is not what we are discussing here today. We discuss how to ensure that each user is given sufficient time to get a decent care for the elderly. It can't be unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1046	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1049	Answer to the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen: It is not right that we refused to demand skills because we wanted to manage quality requirements. For this reason, the issue of competence was also a success, with over 22,000 new annual works, with 80 pst. had relevant professional training. What we said we didn't want to continue was the requirement for specific professionals mentioned by name, because that means that if you might need other professionals than what was on the list, it would be sold out in the municipality's portfolio. The number of professionals says nothing about the number of years of care and care, so it doesn't say anything about the quality of a list of skills, and that's what we took into consideration. Again with privatisation: there are many reasons why researchers have shown that there is no need to mix the market into publicly paid services in the way that labour-intensive sectors such as care for the elderly are doing. That's a good reason why it shouldn't be like that, and it's that public money goes in private pockets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1056	The Christian People's Party agrees that a trust reform is important, but the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party must not present it as if it were something they have come upon. I remember that it was Aud Kvalbein who before the election actually came with this, and who did so in a message, the senior message that was presented, and started with measures before the election. We're all concerned about this, and we're also concerned that wise heads are associated with wise hands. It's not funny in their hands if they don't hang out with a head. We also agree that if we don't have time to exercise that wisdom in practical work, we won't get far with wise heads. Elder care is about time and about money, but it's also about knowing who needs the help the most, in order to be able to give the best priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1061	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1064	I really believe the Christian People's Party and the SV agree very much on this matter. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party has also worked with a trust reform, but it has also done so for several years. It's obvious that that's right, and it's very strange that it shouldn't be possible to get a majority for something as obvious as that. It's also very strange that there's no majority here today to give older people a little more freedom to sail to decide a little bit about what they're going to get help for. It's also very strange, when everyone knows that it's necessary to implement the quality promises that you're going to have, and for the skills that you're going to have, that there are actually enough people at work to do the job according to those standards, for the elderly, because that's what this is all about. And it's stupid to waste money allocated to the care of the elderly for profits in businesses, which also systematically have worse pension conditions, which makes it difficult to recruit all the good people we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1072	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1075	Instead, we heard an article from the representative, Karin Andersen, where she would not choose and would not have the freedom of choice. Now suddenly there came a post where freedom of choice was important, and where she wanted freedom of choice. But it's probably so that she just wants freedom of choice in the municipality and not have freedom of choice where there's someone else who can also be allowed to deliver. Then I think those who are very critical that the Health Minister is very concerned about competence and competence enhancement, perhaps should read the nursing care.no for today. It says of a nurse who is very clear that increasing the skills of employees is very important in order to provide the good care services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1082	First of all, it is important in this debate, which the representative Tone Troeen also pointed out, that Norwegian care for the elderly is very good. Many get good help both in what is run by the municipality and in what is driven by private – both commercial and ideal. We must never forget that. But we are facing quite major challenges. There is a very great pressure on municipal health and care services, not least after the Interaction Reform. There's going to be a lot of older people in the years to come. There will be twice as many 70-year-olds in 2030 as it is today. That means we have to have a strategy to meet this. I'm absolutely sure that regardless of who controls, we'll be able to find things that are good, and things that are bad, but it's still that there's a difference between politics and a difference in priorities. We believe it is important to raise competences as crucial. That is why we introduce competence requirements into the law. The competence plan under the previous government is about getting unskilled professionals. That's good. The new one is not just about it, it is also about investing in continuing and continuing training and the excellent competence. We believe that it is important to strengthen legal certainty towards patients in the care sector. That is why we introduce the right to good-bye care and care and strengthen patient rights. We believe it is important to know more about the quality of services. That is why we introduce a municipal health and care register that gives us more knowledge of quality. Then there has been a discussion about public or private. I think it's a very small discussion, really, because most of the care services in Norway are going to be carried out by the municipalities. But there's still a dimension around getting into a diversity. The representative Karin Andersen, who has apparently left, has been very concerned about the trust of the employees, that we must listen to the employees. It is well worth listening to what the board of trusts in Bergen say when the city council in Bergen now ends – quickly and brutally – the agreement with private actors. What says Bjørg Hopland, who is trusted for the help nurses of the Trade Union? She says, ‘We know that we can achieve a better pension scheme in the municipality, but we who have worked here for a while also value other values. The City Council should look at what Aleris has done before making such changes.» The trust of the nurses, Siv Eriksen, says: "No one has talked to us, so maybe they haven't gotten involved in how things are done here and how we're doing." If you have confidence in the employees, you should also have confidence in the employees who have chosen to work in the private sector in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1112	Hoksrud claims that SV has not been concerned with quality and freedom of choice – SV has always been concerned with freedom of choice. What I think is important to point out, and as I really think it's very strange that I have to go up here and point out, is that SV's freedom of choice is about something quite different than the freedom of choice of the Advance Party. We want older people to be allowed to choose what their daily lives are, what content they should have – not the type of nursing home they live in. Whether it is Aleris’ or the municipality’s home is not really what is important here. There are no clear-cut studies showing that private hospitals are better than municipalities. It is the content of everyday life that is important. If my old mother wants someone to read the paper for five more minutes, she'll be allowed to choose it because that's what matters to her today. This is what freedom of choice is all about – not what kind of home to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1123	I have behaved a little backward in this debate until now, but I must be allowed, after the last speech by the representative Karin Andersen, to take the floor. Because in my municipality, Gjøvik, SV has now been in position for four or five periods. There's now a proposal to wind up 100 hospitals, from 176 to 86, I think -- roughly 100 places. That means that there's a lot of older people who don't get any freedom of choice related to hospitalization. There's no room for all those in need, so it's okay. When you talk about quality, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen was inside: when you are relocated from a nursing home to a nursing home or a nursing home, you lose the right to a doctor. It's one of the quality requirements that lies in a hospitalized place, so the capacity we're talking about here also involves quality. I think that with freedom of choice there will be a strange discussion when you have no choice, and when trust is not made possible for the elderly in a situation where there is so little resources because of their own priorities in their own municipality, where over a long time one has prioritised having very effective home-based care, but not filling in with those who are able to follow up the elderly residents. The elderly residents of the municipality of Gjøvik do not have so many choices in their own everyday life. It is to receive visits to the home service, when they can come. This is about more than trust. In metropolitan areas of Oslo, they have freedom of choice between private and municipal suppliers, and this has led to the fact that there are almost 70–30 in elections between the public and private sectors. On the other hand, there is a public finance awareness, which is the municipality of Oslo, about the services to be provided. Then you can talk about offering real choices. There's a lot to do here, before you can talk about both trust, quality and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1132	If one had used some of the billions that the Left and Christian People's Party has supported the government in terms of tax cuts in the last budgets – and especially for the richest – one would have more resources for the municipalities and thus more resources for the care of the elderly. So it's that simple. So you might want to discuss how to better address this in the future, to make sure that you are able to give more priority to care for the elderly in an even better way. It is hardly the attempt that is taking place today, with the state takeover of the financing of the care of the elderly, a good method. There are several municipalities now that recognise that it is not a very good way to organise it. There is also talk about user surveys. Well, how reliable are the user surveys in the care of the elderly? If we're going to be honest, how reliable are they? I think we only have to admit when it comes to these user surveys: Older people probably tend when they are asked – whether they live in a private run by volunteers or a commercial home – to respond that they are satisfied with the offer, almost in any case. At least that's what I'm thinking – and most people's impressions. Then it's about choices. Freedom of choice is a repetition of the political debate between the right and the left, and it is an important debate. However, in the welfare field and in the care of the elderly, it seems that the right-hand side is most concerned with freedom of choice for actors to establish itself in these areas, i.e. by freedom of choice, while on the left-hand side we are most concerned with the freedom of choice of the individual user and the content of services. It's totally okay, but then it's profiting from content.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1141	I just can't leave the last statement to the representative Freddy de Ruiter hanging in the air. Of course, user surveys are important. You can't believe that older people don't need to talk about what's important to them. That's exactly what we're really debating today: having confidence that older people can participate and influence their everyday lives can have freedom of choice in their everyday lives and how we organize opportunities for it. I have rarely been so surprised as when the representative de Ruiter from this pulpit says not to focus on user surveys. I feel that it touches me far into the heart. If there really is something we need more in the care of the elderly, it is listening to those who receive these services. Is it so to understand that Freddy de Ruiter thinks it's the employees we should listen to, or is it just the municipal politicians? Who can help create an elderly care in this country that we can all be proud of? I am so glad that I am a member of a party that sits in a government that has decided to do this to the patient's healthcare. And I've rarely been so happy about it as today, when I heard this post from Freddy de Ruiter. The husband of an elderly generation and caregiver in this country has rarely listened to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1150	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1153	I have never said that one should not have user surveys, but I have said that the credibility of user surveys in the care of the elderly can be put to significant questions. A pusher largely ahead of the user, e.g. to say that care for the elderly is good, and it may not be good. The response rate to some of the user surveys is also very low, e.g. in Oslo we're talking about maybe down in 14–15. If you want to have serious, good user surveys, they have to be different, and you have to come up with the real points of view. And then it's raised above any doubt: a lot of older people are content with little, and we should make it right so that they can actually get their opinion said. Today’s user surveys are largely not building up below that – they are not good enough. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1158	The debate has developed, and I would like to remind you that what we are debating is, after all, three quite reasonable proposals from SV. Many have debated exactly the same and actually suggested it, namely the standard of staffing – the fact that one municipality can have a sort of cut card solution where the elderly can choose more of the help they receive – and not least a trust reform in the care of the elderly. There have been many comments that this government has reintroduced the competence requirements of the Local Health Services Act. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has done fine for what was the background to the red-green government doing it. It was because we were concerned with competence and not qualifications. Then it's a paradox that specialist health services laws don't require doctors, nurses or health professionals, but there's apparently enough quality in hospitals. I don't belong to anyone who debates for one to be required to have competence in the specialist health services law in order to get a good supply in hospitals. So a final comment on this with private and public. I haven't taken the word for it, because I didn't feel it was what this proposal was all about. But there has been a great debate on this. I live in Bergen, and I have experienced an elderly care where there was also a private offer. This option does not apply to all. It applies to the healthiest of the elderly. The craziest and sickest do not have the option that the right-hand side seems to be so extremely important. When my father got an offer from the municipality that he could choose between the public service and the private service, there was little writing at the bottom that if he needed help at night, he had to thank the public. Who needs help at night? Yes, it's the sickest. They're the ones who actually need help. So choosing privately is a good thing, but we have an extra responsibility for the fragile elderly, and then the option is in any case not available – and they honestly have not needed him either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1182	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1188	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1216	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Mr Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3-5, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 6, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to clarify and clarify the suitability of a Norwegian fund model for innovative medicine and medical technology, and to explore the possibility of cooperation on a Nordic fund for the same purpose.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1248	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent investigation into the lack of medicinal products and to return to Stortinget with a concrete action plan to ensure preparedness for drug shortages in Norway.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1265	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of diagnostic codes on all types of antibiotic screens as soon as possible or by any other means to ensure that diagnostic information is included in the Register of Recipes.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1282	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests amendments to § 14-14 of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation so that nicotine dependence medicinal products can be evaluated for reimbursement [[Blue-receptor system]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1299	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether smoking end-medicines should be included in the blue prescription scheme.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1316	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish national quality indicators for the proper use of medicinal products.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1349	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Mr Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, 2–4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch a professional independent evaluation of the LUA scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1373	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national monitoring of overdoses related to the use of analgesics.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to allow TV advertising for prescription-free medicinal products.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1397	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an information campaign in the context of an awareness-raising work, in particular to young people, with clear objectives of ensuring the proper use of analgesics.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1460	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to invite municipalities to cooperate for trust reform in the home services. The design of the individual trials is carried out in consultation with the individual test municipalities, but the central issue is that assessments of best use of resources should be more entrusted to those receiving and providing services and the amount of reporting should be limited to what is strictly necessary.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1494	Case No. 6 is the second reading of Legislative Decision No. 43. There are no proposals for comment, and Bill No. 43 is thus approved for second time treatment and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1545	No. 135 are proposed to the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture. Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1550	We ask for that proposal to be forwarded to the Labour and Social Committee for its opinion before it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1555	The proposal is that no. 135 are sent to the Family and Culture Committee. Then the proposal put forward by Karin Andersen is that it should also be replaced by: and that sends its draft proposal to the Labour and Social Committee for an opinion before the vote is taken. Is there anyone who has anything against this? - It's not. I can see that no. 135 in the minutes was adopted in line with the supplementary proposal tabled by Mr Andersen. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-04.ana.ud2586e1638	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
