ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e117	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Geir Inge Lien, now takes the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e125	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative ‘on the immediate freezing of the Sandberg directive, which, contrary to the wishes of Stortinget, allows for the transfer of fishing quotas’. I request that the matter be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e132	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e148	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e155	The size treats today Report. St. 16 for 2015–2016, From Exclusion to New Chance – Coordinated efforts for adult learning. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the work of the message. The aim of the message is to develop a coordinated and comprehensive policy for adults with low education, weak basic skills or unacknowledged competences. A single committee points out that there is a clear link between basic skills and participation in the labour market. Many of those with poor reading skills or low skills are just out of work. At the same time, we know that the working life of the future imposes higher standards of competence. Most people have to change, change jobs and constantly update their own knowledge and skills. This is why it is an important objective to have good systems to increase the overall competence of the adult population. Adults are in a different situation than children and young people in the ordinary course of education, and we need more flexible offers where work and training are combined. Asylum seekers and refugees can be a resource for society. The assumption is good language skills and basic knowledge of Norwegian society. In order to maximise the ability to take up work and become well integrated, it is necessary to strengthen and make the offer of immigrants and asylum seekers more effective. The Working Party is pleased that the Committee points to the need for rapid monitoring of the competences of immigrants, proper qualification and training tailored to individual needs. The message bears the impression that it was high time for a big message about lifelong learning. It cleans up in a number of circumstances that are urgently needed in the sector. In particular, there are opportunities for training for adults with poor basic skills and better access to secondary education for adults. Examples of issues on which there is a broad consensus are the mapping tools for basic skills, the strengthening of the system for the recognition of foreign vocational education and training, the possibility of real competence assessment in languages other than Norwegian, professional letter at work and the provision of better and more flexible access to higher education. The most positive part of the message is the coordination that has been initiated between different departments in this field, and that it is said that lifelong learning needs to be seen in the context. If we are to be honest, there is not much political conflict about this message. One important reason for this is that much in the message is little concrete and not very offensive either. Like several hearing bodies, the Workers' Party believes that many of the proposals contained in the message are little concrete. It makes it hard to have a bastant opinion about a lot of what's being written. The practicalisation of the proposals will therefore have a great deal to say about how both the sector and the parties in this room will deal with the measures. The government says on a number of points that they will decide on different aspects of several of the proposals when preparing the regulations. Therefore, the follow-up and concreteisation of the message by the government will be important. An example of this is that the Labour Party has some concerns about the direction in which modulation of secondary education will take. The purpose of modules and a more flexible offer is good, but it is worth listening to, among other things. LO's concern, that here we must be on guard that it will not be opened up for employers to ask their employees to take only individual modules or parts of a course, so that we receive A and B training. It must remain a requirement that the aim of secondary education be final competence, i.e. letter of formal qualifications, letter of association or study competence. This is a message in which the Labour Party believes that more could have been done, that a much broader strategy on lifelong learning and a much more thorough work in the field of integration should have been put forward. Now we know that the government has announced that there will be a strategy of competence. It is positive and has been well received. But why do you choose to run these processes so broken and divided instead of seeing them in context? In today’s and future working life, everyone will need to update their own knowledge and competences regularly. The learning of adults does not apply and should not be reserved for those who can be characterised as marginalised groups on the labour market or for adults with weak basic skills. We need a holistic approach in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e181	It is a historic big message we are discussing today. This Communication is the first of its kind in which the government has coordinated a comprehensive policy for adults with low education, weak basic skills or unacknowledged competences. Many of these challenges go across sectoral lines, and the Communication has therefore been developed jointly between the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection. The notification has three main areas of activity: better training for adults with poor basic skills, better access to secondary education and better quality of the specific offers to immigrants. The Communication will contribute, through these three main areas of action, to creating precisely better access to adult training and a better basis for cooperation between education, integration and labour market authorities. In this way, I would like to say that the complexity of this message and the fact that it is the first of its kind confirm that this is a work that also needs to go a little bit further in the sector as you develop offers and get them arranged as best as possible and as targeted as possible. There is a clear link between basic skills and participation in working life. Adults with low skills participate less than other adults in education and working life. Some 560,000 persons between 25 and 66 years of age in Norway have the highest completed education. This corresponds to about 20 pst. of the group. About 400,000 people, or about 12 pst. by Norwegian adults, have poor reading skills, according to the international study of literacy, i.e. PIAAC. Many of these are outside the labour force or have weak links with it. The working life of the future places higher demands on skills, and most will have to expect to change, change jobs and more frequently update their own knowledge and skills. A lifelong learning policy must therefore embrace a broad range, involve the whole of public services and include working life and the voluntary sector in the work. Therefore, the right now looks forward to making it easier for adults to receive training while in work and to making relevant training available in several arenas. Many adults need to combine education with work and other obligations, which means that training for adults needs to be more flexible and adapted to the lives of adults. Refugees will also receive better Norwegian training and greater opportunities to take education while learning the language. Many refugees and immigrants need Norwegian training and other qualifications to get work. To date, it has been difficult to combine Norwegian training with participation in primary or secondary education. Norway has a responsibility to enable asylum seekers and refugees who are allowed to stay to participate in the labour market, in order to ensure good integration and use the resources of immigrants. The right considers it essential to effectively monitor the competence of migrants, to provide qualification where possible, and not least to ensure proper training. We are therefore also looking forward to the government initiating preparatory adult education in the form of modular education at primary school level, and developing curricula for the trials that are better suited to adult needs, including for adult immigrants. Similar tests shall also be carried out for adults in the field of education and will be provided for selected vocational training programmes. It is likely that modular education will be a way of making it easier for some to take on training when appropriate, and in this way you can gain competence in a subject without having to take on training in the parts of the subjects you have already completed. In this way, we will ensure that more people are able to demonstrate their skills in the course of training, while ensuring that their final competence is of the same quality as in the ordinary course of training for professionals. This will contribute to increased flexibility, which will better safeguard the target audience of the offer and can be an important tool for more people to complete and pass on higher education. It is important that the offer is made in several arenas, so that it is available for the most part. Finally, voluntary organisations and study associations are also important in providing adult training and, with different devices, can be an important complement to ensure basic skills and inclusion, including by immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e211	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation in this matter. The Progress Group is pleased that there is now a communication on coordinated efforts for adult learning. This is something the Progress Party has been calling for for many years. This Communication is the first in its kind in which a government has developed a coordinated and comprehensive policy for adults with low education, weak basic skills or unacknowledged competences. We believe that all people have the potential to get better. The world is evolving, society is evolving, new demands and needs are created. This makes skills development and lifelong learning even more important today than it was before. The Progress Party will therefore underline the importance of investing in adult learning for all groups in society. The Progress Party is pleased that the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation is emphasised and that cooperation with industry is emphasised. We look forward to making it easier for adults to receive training while they are at work and that relevant training is made available in several arenas. The notification has three main fields of action which together will provide better access to adult training and a better basis for cooperation between education, integration and labour market authorities: better training for adults with poor basic skills better opportunities for higher education better quality in the specific offers to immigrants There is a need for more flexible and individualised training for adults that can accelerate transition to work and/or higher education. Among other things, pilots of pre-adult education are being launched through modular, primary and vocational education. Among adults between 25 and 66 years of age, about 560,000 people have primary education as the highest level of education. Further training, in particular vocational and vocational training, increases opportunities for stable footholds in the labour market. Training of a certain duration, which may provide formal competence, also has a good effect on the transition to work for job seekers and persons with disabilities. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the government will extend the right to higher education. The level of competence and the need for training vary considerably among those with a migrant background. A high proportion of immigrants have low education and weak basic skills. In addition, they need Norwegian training. In this area, action must be taken to improve the ability of participants to acquire the skills requested in the labour market, including: by increasing the right to work. The Progress Party will stress the importance of allowing more people to receive training in combination with work, and is pleased that the government will establish a system of professional letters at work in cooperation with the social partners as an alternative route to professional and bachelor letters. The Progress Party will also point out that changes to the Training Act have been notified which make the letter of practice a formal opportunity in higher education and which obliges all counties to offer training for the purposes of letters of practice. The Party of Progress has noted that the Government of the notified notification of integration will assess the device of the introductory programme. This is today a system of highly varying quality, and the Progress Party is pleased to have a goal of improving it. Norway has lacked a central recognition for foreign vocational training and vocational education, which has made it more difficult to get asylum seekers and migrant workers into the labour market quickly. The Progress Party supports the establishment of national authorisation schemes for these fields and considers it natural that NOKUT should be responsible for such a scheme. Finally, the Progress Party will underline the special responsibility of Norway for small and protective crafts. Adult students without a right to secondary education constitute a vitally important student group for schools that provide this. The Party of Advances refers to the Government working on a change in the structure of supply in the professional sector and is pleased that recruitment to the small and protective crafts sector is specifically addressed in this context. The Progress Party hopes that the government will consider equalising adults seeking admission to small and protective subjects with applicants for youth rights, and that it will look into how the Law of Higher Education can better take care of the post-secondary schools offering such subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e249	Report. St. 16 for 2015–2016 is an important big message because it highlights a serious societal challenge, namely adults who end up outside because they have too little education, too weak basic skills or not recognised competence. There is also a good message in many ways, in the sense that the government is alerting a number of good and sensible measures that it is easy to agree with. But this is a big message that has been notified for a long time, and to which there have been very high expectations, and I must say that although much is good, I am also a little disappointed, because I do not see it as a message that takes into account adults' learning in a broad sense, as is also evident from the department's limitations in the communication. However, when we look at the proposals and measures contained in the communication, much is good. I think it's great that the government will start testing pre-adult education in the form of modular education at primary school level. I think this will make it easier for many to acquire the skills they need. I am pleased that the government will consider amending the Training Act so that adults who have completed higher education abroad but have not been recognised in Norway will be entitled to secondary education. I believe that this should also apply to those who have not achieved an approved final qualification in Norway. It is positive that the government will establish a system of professional letters at work in cooperation with the social partners. I think it might be a good alternative way to work or work letters for some people. Then there's one issue that many of us have been dealing with for a long time, that finally gets a solution, and that's the relationship between youth and adult education. There has been a problem that many have exercised their juvenile rights and have had to wait for several years before they have been able to continue schooling. In the meantime, things may have changed. Some may have had a family and are in a completely different situation than they were before, and both the opportunity and motivation to return to school may have been weakened. It is therefore great that the government is now proposing that the right to secondary education be directly transferred to adult law. So if I'm going to say a little bit about what I miss in this message, it's a little bit broader about education and competence. Our education system consists of much more than the formal educational institutions. Here I want to bring forward the voluntary sector. Voluntary organisations and study associations are very important contributors in the development of competences in Norway. Many organisations offering courses and studies have a completely different opportunity to reach people living in what we call exclusion than the more formal parts of the education system have. Therefore, volunteering is not only important in terms of competence but also in terms of integration and inclusion. And I think that becoming a part of a volunteer organisation and participating in a course through a study association can both contribute valuable competence and at the same time be a very good gateway to the Norwegian community. For exclusion is not just about being out of work, it is also about social participation. The notification mentions the study associations, but is basically only mentioned. The government shows no ambition regarding how they want to facilitate the participation of study associations and voluntary organisations more actively than they do today. But the volunteer organizations are clear, they're forward-looking and offensive, and we're making a big mistake if we ignore them in this work. Universities are not mentioned at all, but the higher education institutions can also have a lot to contribute in terms of extraterritorial and adult learning. Personal maturation, development of self-esteem and master's expectations, social learning and preparation for education are, according to the research project 'Students' benefits from public higher education', the most important dividend for students to choose a year at the national college. I hope that the Ministry of Knowledge will follow up the dialogue established between them, the Swedish National College Council and the IMFI on how the National College can contribute to the integration work of young people coming to Norway as refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e268	We know that education is important for maritime respect, maritime sustainability and participation in society. Today, a large part of the population is outside or at risk of falling out of work. At the same time, there is an increasing unemployment rate and thus a greater fight for jobs, as well as a high number of asylum seekers who have come to the country. Without education or with a lack of education, you do not put the front line in the job queue. This is important that we do something about it. That is why several of us would have liked to have seen that the message had been somewhat broader and also taken into account the growing need for the labour market to update knowledge through continuing training. This message addresses three issues in particular. First, the need to improve the quality of the special offers to immigrants: The level of competence and the need for training will differ from one person to another with a migrant background. Immigrants are overrepresented among those with a long higher education. At the same time, a higher proportion of immigrants have low education and poor basic skills compared to the rest of the population. Immigrants will have many of the same training needs as other adults. In addition, many people need Norwegian training and some need job-oriented measures. It is a challenge that many people who have foreign education have problems getting it approved in Norway. That's how we can miss out on skilled labour. The aim is to make use of the resources that immigrants bring with them and to ensure that their skills are rapidly exploited in the workplace. Good opportunities for qualification, training and rapid recognition of their competences are important factors for success in the integration process. It is therefore a paradox that while we are discussing the government's view of adult learning and the desire to have immigrants into school, to teach them Norwegian and to accept education, the government has cut the number of hours of Norwegian education in recent years. This is not an action in line with what we think should be a sensible approach to getting asylum seekers to work more quickly. So to the proposal on training for adults with poor basic skills: As mentioned earlier, among adults between 25 and 66 years of age, about 560,000 people have primary education as the highest level of education. It's a fact that it won't be easier to get a permanent job in the future if you don't have more than high school. It can easily lead to alienation, which will not be positive either for individuals or for society at large. The proposal proposes to amend the Training Act in such a way that the right to secondary education is directly transferred to adult law. I would like to remind the assembly that this proposal voted in favour of the same parties that are now proposing it, contrary to last year's time when, in the proposal for a representative document, document 8:84 S for 2013-2014, the Senter party proposed to remove the word «coherent» in the Training Act. This proposal would lead to exactly what the government is now proposing. We welcome the proposal, but we think it is a little sad that because last year the government and the majority could not support a proposal from the Center Party, we already have several students who have missed this opportunity to continue their education rather than take the way to the Nav office. I refer to the reason for this proposal in the post I made on this matter last year – which I expect the assembly to remember – and the experience that Uppland County Municipality has had in having such an offer for several years. The message is focused on so-called modular training. This can be a good grip, since many adults who are at work could be easier to follow if they can be combined with work or care. A single committee is committed to the possibility of such an offer being made on different venues and platforms. It is absolutely necessary to enable education for adults. The majority of the Committee also calls on the government to clarify the nature of the final competence granted and to maintain the same high standard as an ordinary course of training. It is also worth noting that an entire committee points out that non-governmental organisations, study associations and higher education institutions are important providers of adult training. In this context, I would like to draw the Committee's attention to something that we have not mentioned as committee. It is about the fact that the study supervision regulation should not be handled so rigidly that adult education beyond primary school level can no longer be offered through the study associations. Universities and higher education institutions are regulated, inter alia: through this regulation, and I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at the requirements of this regulation in dialogue with the study associations. Then I am very pleased that a joint committee has chosen to mention small and protective subjects in particular. It is probably more than I have received enquiries from Østfold Furniture carpenters school, Hejerleid at Dovre and other small providers of small trades. It is time we solved the challenges for these, and I regret that the Council of State sent this week a letter to Østfold Furniture Sneaker School with a refusal to start the Vg2 furniture Sneaker. I think it is very unfortunate, and I think it is not in line with the leaders Stortinget's proposal for small and protective subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e294	In this debate, I think it is worth remembering that we have a high level of professional participation in Norway, and there is a high level of competence in the population. We know that there is a link between skills and participation in working life. That's why it's good that we have a highly educated population, and not least it's good because what we have in our professional life, and what we're going to see in the future, requires a high level of competence, it requires the ability to change and to learn new things throughout our professional life. That's why, like several others, I think it was a little bit of a shame that this message had such a narrow starting point that it didn't take into account adult learning in a larger perspective. Not least we can see it now, in the situation we are facing, with increasing unemployment in several places in the country, where people with a high level of competence and, to the extent that education needs to retrain, learn new things, look at new opportunities in working life. So learning isn't just about those who have low formal education; it's about learning for the entire adult population throughout their lives. I also want to draw up these interfaces between formal education and a little bit more informal education. What happens in the voluntary sector, and what happens in the public sector, cannot be a static limit, because these things are linked. That is why I believe that the study associations should have been much higher. It is a very valuable contribution to the fight against exclusion and to the socialisation and empowerment of adults. What is done by training in the direction of volunteering, and what is done by formal education, cannot be opposed to each other, because one is of importance to the other. In the treatment of the 2016 government budget, the government was required to engage in dialogue with the study associations, in order to work with them to see how the study federations can reach new groups and how they can increase the activity of immigrants in order to promote integration. I hope we hear more about that in the future. We look forward very much to the work to be done there, because we believe that the voluntary sector and the study associations can contribute here. I also think it is important that we view competence as something more than just study credits – and formal competence. Being able to something is worth something in itself, whether it's embroidery, or it's the more formal competence that a student gets at universities and colleges. The same applies to higher education institutions, which are not mentioned at all in the message. I still have the pleasure of meeting someone who has gone to high school, who says it was a completely wasted year – most of them are left, after a year in high school, with a lot of value. One thing is the process of maturation, that you need a year to find out who you are, and what you want to do, but the fact that we have a whole range of higher education institutions – some focus on motivating them for further education, some focus on competence in a particular area, whether it be creativity or whatever – makes it possible to take advantage of the part of the education sector that the higher education institutions make up, not least in terms of integration. They may not have been in line until Norway experienced a sharp increase in the number of refugees coming, and said: We are here, we can contribute, use us! We can't stop using the good offer that's there. Like many others, we are very happy that youth rights are going directly into adult law – an important contribution to a slightly more flexible transition and not to stop education for people when they are motivated for it. A little about those who come from abroad and have taken an education there: we can't miss valuable skills either because we can't recognise that education; we have to assume that other countries too can train well, and that they should be able to continue that education in Norway. In the end, like Anne Tingelstad Wøien, I will address this with the small and protective subjects. We have a challenge there. We see that several of those who offer the subjects feel that they do not have enough student base, and that they have to lay down. One important contribution may be to do what the Committee unanimously proposes: to equalise adult applicants and applicants with youth rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e313	It is important and good that there is a message about adult learning. I'll give that to the Council of State. There is a great need for this issue to be put on the Storting agenda. This is a good initiative. At the same time, I think it is wise for the government to take with it the clear comments that come from a majority of the committee, on three points. One is that we are dissatisfied with the fact that the perspective of the message is getting too narrow. If we are to talk about adult learning, we cannot only be concerned with learning for adults who are in a marginalised position – those who are at risk of being out of work or who have weak basic skills or who do not recognise their skills. Of course, it's a very important part of an adult learning policy. However, we also need a policy that takes on board that the working life of the future will be such that most people will need a continuous update of their skills – a continuous opportunity to learn something new and to qualify for a working life that will be changing more and more rapidly. In that area, the message is too narrow, and it is also too little concrete. This, of course, is a common criticism of big business messages. But it's still right to point that out, I think, because if we're going to get some way, we have to get into the concrete proposals. The majority of the Committee has raised two more points. One is about the role of non-governmental organisations and associations of study organisations and our need to emphasise it to a greater extent than what is stated in the Communication. I would also like to stress that, like Mr Nybø. And then I want to spend some time in colleges. It is remarkable that a message like this does not mention the place and role of higher education institutions in the education system. I think it would be obvious that it would be natural when we discuss adult learning and the efforts to complete as many as possible useful courses of education. We know that high schools can play a crucial role in the lives of many young people. They provide knowledge, competence and life experience, which are valuable in themselves, but which also enables more people to complete other education. As we have pointed out in the position, this is also evident in research. It makes a lot of sense for students to participate in higher education. Therefore, it should also be part of our strategy to promote learning for adults. The lack of place for higher education institutions in this communication can also be seen in the context of the revision of the national budget, where the government has now announced that it will bring about an extension of the study aid. It's very good, but we're worried about the condition of high school students when the government decides to discriminate against them and their access to student support. It's hard to understand that those who go to high school are not going to get involved in this increase. The government's reason is that it's an exam-free education, but the school year is equidistant. Colleges today have 198 school days, such as other courses in Norway. I think we've seen in this period a government that's not particularly concerned with the higher education institutions. We had a high school riot here outside the house a couple of years ago. We have the lack of attention on the subject in this message, and we have a change of study support that affects these students very directly. My appeal to the Council of State is that he takes with him the comments that come from a majority in the case of higher education institutions, in the case of the study federations, and in the case of the need for a broader perspective than that presented in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e332	I agree that we have to do more than this. I believe that, of course, as the representative Lyssbakken stressed, it is absolutely crucial with the competence of those who are outside the labour market outside. But I agree with the diagnosis that we will also need a completely different competence policy regime and for attention not only in the years to come, but in the decades to come. That's why we're working on a strategy of competence policy, such as that. The rapporteur mentioned, which is becoming important, where the social partners are very closely involved, and that is why we are also sending to the hearing of the Career Guidance Committee which has been set up, which looks at both career guidance and counselling, because that is what we also need to follow up. But what this message does is, first of all, to go right to the heart of an important issue, not just what kind of system you need to have to ensure that people live outside, but how we can create a education system, a knowledge system and a welfare system that makes it easier for people to come back to work. So it also directly addresses a problem that I think at least those who have been state councillors know, that our welfare state is big, and it's not always the state that is as good at coordinating itself. It's easy to think that the state is a uniform monolithic size, so it's not. There are different systems, different schemes, that don't always stick together. What this message does is to create a comprehensive strategy, and it's important. There has been a great and demanding work across several sectors. The Department of Knowledge has coordinated the work, but the solutions here also largely relate to important areas such as integration and work, with the corresponding departments. The goal is to make more people succeed in working life, open more doors and have more smooth transitions between different parts of our welfare system. It is necessary, inter alia, to: Because the proportion of older people is increasing, because we know that we have a lot of people out of work, and because many of those who are out of work, and many of those who may also lose their jobs, are struggling with basic skills. There are three main things we're doing in this message, which we're focusing on: The first is better training for adults with weak basic skills, better adapted to the individual, that we launch the development of a mapping tool for basic skills that can be used across sectors — for example, by: a person coming to Nav will also have access to a tool that allows Nav to find a better offer than they might be able to do today — trial of pre-adult training, i.e. modular training at primary school level, which should be better adapted to adults and adults with a different parent language than Norwegian, and also the possibility to receive a course in basic skills under the auspices of Nav, i.e. skills enhancement which also means the use of the formal education system. The second is better opportunities for secondary education. We propose, as has been said, that youth law be directly transferred to adult law. It's a hole like it was time to close. We propose to set up a new way to study and study letters for adults that will allow them to combine training with work and income – that is important. It's probably not something that involves tens of thousands of people, but there have been successful attempts at it, so we have to do this. Modular structured adult training is also important. This means, for example: that a piece of training can be taken and documented in a vocational training programme. The final competence, i.e. the letter – it is important to stress, and I see that the majority and the committee are really concerned about – will, and must, still be the gold standard in Norwegian working life, we should not go along with that, but the path there becomes more flexible. Then we will give priority to vocational training in Nav's training activities. The third is better quality in the offer of immigrants. We have talked in the integration message about how the introduction program will be better. We warn that we will develop the offer of labour-oriented Norwegian training under the auspices of Nav. To sum up, the target audience for the message is a large group of people representing a source of labour and creativity that we need to be able to get more out of. Then the government and the departments need to make further concrete proposals, even in close cooperation with the social partners. I just want to mention again that we're not done with this with a policy of competence. We are also working on a strategy of competence policy that partially follows up some of the measures in the communication, but also embraces wider, and we do so in close cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e355	In the main message, the Council of State adds to the so-called modulation of initial and advanced training. He called from the pulpit now the letter of the gold standard, and that it should still be. Modulation can be good, as the needs of adults for adapted training are different from those of young people. At the same time, there is a fear that modulation can develop new A and B training through, for example: the employer provides support to only part of a training course – the parts that are best suited to the employer. So there's a danger that people get a kind of partial competence, a specialised competence, that doesn't give them a proper final competence. I wonder what the Council of State will do to ensure that no more will take only part of an education, but that as much as possible will complete, with a proper final qualification such as a letter of formal education, a bachelor's letter or a study qualification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e362	It is a highly relevant question raised by the representative. I want to say anyway that I'm really not worried, because there's no clear sign that it's going to hit. The main reason is that in most parts of the world of work, the letter is very strong. We have a strong trades union tradition, well anchored in Norwegian working life, well anchored politically and well anchored with the parties. There is also a desire in the labour market to develop their employees. My answer would be that we have to follow up on whether the problem that the representative is dealing with seems to be happening. But my government's assessment has been that with the situation we now have, it's more important to get a slightly more flexible way to the letter. It has been the right priority now, and then you have to consider adjusting it if, for example, it is. ends up with many taking modules, but not taking full professional letters. But I'm not initially really worried about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e369	The Government's intention of modulation is good. I think it is important that he follows closely and takes with him the social partners, because unfortunately, what we know is that the letter is not as strong in all parts of the world of work. Another challenge that we hope the Council of State will address is the role of county councils. They have an important role to play in empowering asylum seekers and refugees, but the challenge for county councils in this work is that they have no formal role in addition to being a training provider. They receive little or no information about which students they should prepare to receive and the competences they have. There are often unclear responsibilities between them, the municipalities and other actors. This may, in the worst case, lead to a poorer offer for students, but it also prevents municipalities from coordinating cooperation on pupils with the municipality, for example. language training. The question is whether the Council of State has seen this issue and will take the initiative to clarify the responsibilities between them. counties, municipalities and other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e378	Firstly, in this communication, we have also said something about the competence mapping of those who come to Norway. I think that's a very important starting point. The more we know what those who come to Norway can — both formal and informal — the easier it will be to let that information follow them through training courses and through housing, for example. The second is that it is a problem which also affects the work of integration. I fully agree with the representative that we should try as best we can to have good dialogue and good contact with the county councils and with the national authorities responsible for housing, so that it is possible to prepare for who lives. This is something that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Justice and Defence keep in touch.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e385	As I was in my post, I lack some attention on the voluntary sector and the study associations. There are also several other representatives who have been involved. I am concerned that volunteering should not be governed, that it should not be controlled in detail or used as a political tool, but that we need to create conditions for the voluntary organisations that want to contribute to it to be able to do so. In the context of the treatment of the 2016 state budget, a large majority of governments asked the government to ‘go in dialogue with the study associations and come back to the Stortinget with a model of how the grants to the study associations can be designed to meet new groups and meet the objectives of multiple inclusion and integration offers’. Is there a task the Council of State is doing? Is the dialogue initiated, and when can we expect to get a case back to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e394	I took the utmost note of what the majority said during the budgetary procedure. We also had some suggestions on how it could be done, with which the majority was not quite satisfied. I fully agree that, for example. study associations and voluntary organisations can be involved even more and can focus their activities on contributing to, for example: integration. That dialogue has partially begun, and we will come back to Stortinget with it appropriately. Of course, it won't be a separate matter about this, it will be one of the documents that we send over. So I would like to mention that during this period we have made a very important contribution to taking the volunteer with it, namely by creating a new system within what was previously the Basic Competence in Work, we launched the BKF, Basic Competence in Volunteering. Now it's called Competence. It is simply to involve non-governmental organisations in the important work of upgrading skills and competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e403	We have had a bit of a lively debate in the speeches earlier today, and I think it really is due to the title of the message, because it says 'adult learning'. I think there are many of us who would have wanted a broader message. We think about formal basic competence, we think about continuing training, and we think about the non-formal competence – for example. one with a secondary school background or an immigrant who may be required to learn to join a school, as there is also competence at the secondary school level. That's why the debate gets a little messy. We have received some concerns from the study association, the last of which was now in the process, as far as this is concerned, that the study supervision regulation requires that 50 pst. the teaching must be done with the staff of the institution with first or higher competence. My question is then: will the Council of State be as kind as possible to look at this as quickly as possible, so that we can still keep the study associations as providers and as part of this with adult training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e410	I have to admit that the issue I am not able to answer on a standing footing, quite simply. I have to ask the representative to come back, either in question time or through a written question, and I will give a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e415	But the Council of State wants to look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e420	Yes, it means in practice that I want to look at it, but it's fine if there's a question about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e425	It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State will look at it, because it is a topical and important issue. Another thing I hope the Council of State will look at is what others have said, which goes on the small and protective subjects. What's a little special about those subjects is that they're not just recruiting young people; they're also recruiting adults. They recruit adults who like to have an education, but who want to be, for example, later on. furniture screws. One of the things we're getting a lot of enquiries about now is Eastfold Furniture carpenters' school, which feels that it's all about challenges for them in terms of formalization, which makes them kind of unable to keep going. Many people feel that it's a very bad thing if they have to go down, because they're making a valuable contribution. It's also about adult people who want to take that education. My challenge to the Council of State is: what can we do, what can he do for us to maintain these small, protective subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e435	In the complaint treatment we have had in the department, our assessment has been that Østfold Furniture Sneaker School, although it is a good offer, does not fall into the category of small and protective subjects. This is because they have the offer, which has been for 1st class – they have had a 1st class offer for 13 years, approx. – also exists in other parts of the school system, not the high school system. What we have said in our treatment, however, is that the school may be able to fit into what the majority parties have opened up to, that is, a vocational college. They have applied for recognition as a profile school, but they will have the opportunity to change their search basis without having to apply again. When it comes to the issue of youth and adults, doing something about it will mean a change in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e442	I would like to ask the Council of State how to understand the lack of attention around the higher education institutions, because the majority of the committee has expressed concern that the higher education institutions are not a topic. There has been a popular high school uprising earlier in this period, and now we also see that in the new proposal for a new student support scheme, the government is putting up to hold 7,500 high school students outside the escalation of student support. I find it hard to see the logic of it. We'll have an opportunity to discuss that when we're discussing the budget, but there's a concern in Folkehöjskole-Norway that this government doesn't see the value of the national colleges and colleges' important place in the education system. That's why I really want to challenge the Council of States on that now. Does it worry the Council of State that he has created a doubt in the sector as to whether the government values the higher education institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e447	The government values the higher education institutions. Although we proposed a small budget reduction related to short-term rates a few years ago, it nevertheless meant a funding of 700 million. SEK or 800 million. kr – or something like that, now I don't remember – by the national colleges. We spend a lot of money on this, and it's going to keep going. It is also quite right that the primary schools were when we invited to work to settle asylum seekers and refugees, and they deserve all sorts of credit for it. Just because the higher education institutions can play an important role, we are now in dialogue with the Swedish National College Council on just to start a research project where we are looking at whether primary schools can contribute to implementation, less apostasy, in high school. I think that is very exciting – not only to say that we believe it, but also to start a concrete attempt at it. In the case of 11 months of study aid, the reason is that it has been very explicitly linked to the date of the examination and that many have passed the examination for a period after the student has passed. Although national colleges have the same number of days of study, they still have a school year that ends very much before. In practice, they use nine months today, if I don't remember mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e456	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e461	In May 1968, a young Iraqi geologist walked the streets of Oslo without any special action. He waited for the bus and struck the whole time to visit a department to ask if there were any oil companies coming into Norway. On the same night he was hired as the third Norwegian oil bureaucrat, and he has been called Norway's most profitable immigrants, because he did brilliant work on Norwegian oil extraction. He may also be one of Norway’s most profitable residents, and not just immigrants. Immigrants are referred to as part of this so-called outhouse. It may be that a good part of today’s immigrants in Norway have a competence that is overlooked. I use it as an introduction to the matter, because I believe that the title – which has been mentioned by others – «From outside to a new chance» gives associations to them and us: there are some out there that we are going to help get into the heat, almost, and they are those who do not have formal competence and who have not followed the usual course. But it's actually the way that even those with a long education – even people who have worked as researchers – end up in this outreach. There may be – and have been – people sitting in this room, who can become part of this alienation. There are many good examples of people who have chosen a slightly different way into adult life than completing higher education and going to university or taking further training, which has a very successful history both in Norwegian public and in their own professional life. What worries me a little bit is the perspective that many people have taken up, that around this, with adult learning, there are so-called marginalized groups. At the same time, the Prime Minister and the government talk a lot about conversion. What that means, of course, is that organisations should change – that's what you hear right away. But there's a lot of people going to change. There's a lot of people going to work in a completely different way than you've done before, because we're in a digital revolution, we're in big social changes, a lot of people have to work in other ways. Then it's about almost everyone having to fill their skills, and it's hardly mentioned in this message. Then I believe that using the term ‘adult learning’ attached to this so-called message adds up to a height of fall in relation to the answers that are coming. I don't think it responds to the challenges of adult learning. I know that the Council of State has said that he will come back with this issue at a later stage. It's urgent, it's important, because it's actually all the inhabitants of Norway, who in the future have to work in a different way, with filling and competence, almost whatever the type of background. The intent of the message is good, but it's too buttony, and it's too narrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e478	Several representatives have referred to the three main areas of action in the communication we are debating: better training for adults with weak basic skills, better opportunities for higher education and better quality of the specific offers to immigrants. All three are important themes, which deserve our full attention. But there is still one area that is especially close to my heart. On 13 February 2015, there was an article in our national newspaper, Fädrelandsvennen. The article was entitled ‘Finally motivated – at the end of the queue’. In the article, the head of Nav in the municipality of Vennesla said that in Vennesla was 20.6 p.m. by the population of 21-year-olds, 17,4 pst. of the 19-year-olds and 16-year-olds. by 22-year-olds during the Nav follow-up. A project of its own was to get 18-25-year-olds up in the morning and to meet in a work programme. The aim of the project was to avoid passivity, and many project participants succeeded in changing their lives. However, the experience gained in the project was clear that the rules on education were a major problem for those who were not fully educated and who were aged 21–25 – those who did not fall under either youth or adult education. I am very pleased that the government is now proposing that the right to secondary education be directly transferred to adult law. Because it's about giving people an opportunity to close knowledge gaps and to complete their secondary education. That's the key into the world of work. Similarly, it is in love that the government will now consider extending the right to secondary education for applicants who are in higher education abroad but do not receive recognition in Norway. There is no doubt that access to employment is the key to good integration in Norway. Of course, it is important for individuals and individuals to be able to participate in the labour market, but it is also important for the community. There are many things that could have been pointed out in this big message. For me, it has been an important signal that the government is looking across the sectors and developing a coordinated and comprehensive competence policy for low-educated adults, with weak basic skills or unacknowledged competences. In order to be met with opportunities and not to be closed when the need and motivation are present, the alpha and omega are for more people to succeed in education and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e491	This is an important and big matter in several ways, and it's good that it's taken up by the government, and it's good that there's a lot of commitment in the committee. But there are actually two debates at the same time, because traditionally this debate has been about people who have fallen out of both school and working life, perhaps having an elementary school education that is quite deficient, and not having any opportunity to take further education, and are the most vulnerable in the labour market. And it's about this so-called exclusion -- how do we bring adults with poor school experience and with negative experience from training back into work. It's a big and comprehensive problem in itself. But what this debate will really be about in the future is that a lot of people are going to leave school with pretty good knowledge, but maybe not with the professional skills or the further training that makes you qualified for a working life. Because the unskilled jobs disappear at an enormous pace, and not only that, but the skills you need to get the jobs that exist change a lot faster than before. It's not more than a couple of generations ago that young people could look at their parents' professions and think that's what the future was. Now young people actually meet a blank sheet when the question of what they're going to be when they grow up, what qualifications they need, and what jobs they're going to take, is asked. Being able to make this lifelong learning work – not just for those who have had a hard time at school and perhaps come out with poor knowledge and poor results or for other reasons are out of the labour market, but actually for the whole workforce – is the big question we should have had a wide-ranging debate on. Because it imposes enormous demands on the labour market, it imposes enormous demands on educational institutions, and it imposes enormous demands on us to create systems that are flexible enough and good enough for everyone to participate in it. When 15 000 young people in each coal leave high school without having completed and passed, we risk in ten years getting 150,000 people who have to acquire that skills afterwards. When we see that there are hundreds of applicants for jobs in a grocery store, it's because these jobs, for which you don't need special formal qualifications, are getting fewer and fewer. We are in danger of getting a huge number of people who are completely healthy, who really do have all right knowledge and competence, but who still don't get a job. It is this social, ticking bomb that we have to create a system to meet — ensure that people are qualified throughout their lives, that people receive continuing training — both to solve the exclusion of those who have traditionally been the most marginalised, and to ensure that everyone is actively involved in the labour market and to contribute to value creation and to an equivalent Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e502	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I agree with the representative Giske that this is also a major challenge. If you do not have a competence policy — a lifelong learning policy — you will also not be able to prevent you from falling out of it, for example. need to change jobs and need new knowledge and skills, but there is no system in place to get it. There's also an extra dimension here. It's that we're going to solve that challenge in the framework of Norwegian working life, as it works today. We're not going to do that, for example. In the United States, where you may have a greater ability to pick up unskilled, non-qualified labour, but do so by having very low wage levels. With a high pay level, you need skills, and you need productive workers. I believe that today we have some tools that show the way in this discussion as well. Basic skills in the labour market and basic skills in volunteering, which are now renamed Competence+, are not among the most taboo instruments we have. It is not what the media writes the most about, but it is a very good example of an unbureaucratic system that is also based on Norwegian tripartite cooperation. There is simply support for that very type of development of competence. The notification also opens up proposals that could facilitate this – e.g.: in the case of a type of modulation which means that you can not only take a course, but you can take a course that gives you the opportunity to build up, for example. a letter, if you have not had the opportunity to do so. If it works well, it could be an opportunity that more people use in the future. But the most important work for the big discussion is working on a strategy of competence policy. There is no concealment that there are also different emphasis and opinions among the social partners. There is always a challenging balance between formal and non-formal competence and how to recognise it in the education system. But it's a work we're doing very well, which we've got good feedback from the parties, and which the Storting here also says is an important and good work. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e529	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e536	I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with this matter, which deals with a variety of changes in the Training Act. The proposal includes proposals to introduce freer choice of schools across county borders, to introduce a practice letter scheme in all counties and legislative proposals to facilitate the provision of more primary education for young people entitled to secondary education. In addition, the government proposes to establish a system for the recognition of foreign vocational training at secondary level, clarification in the law of when the training obligation expires in the event of foreign residence, and removal of the law’s recommendation on maximum school size. If any of the amendments are put together, the Committee is divided on other issues, so I assume that the position of the various parties will be made clear during the debate. I will now prepare for the position of the Christian People's Party in this matter. With regard to the question of free choice, there is little doubt that some students may need to attend a school in a state other than their home country. So freer school choices are basically a good idea. But if we introduce free schooling as a general right, I'm afraid that we may lose the opportunity to provide training in another state to those students who, for various reasons, actually need it. There will then be competition, mainly based on grades, and not an assessment of the individual student’s needs. That's why I think it's a much better idea to give a right to freer school choices, which will apply in fewer and clearly defined cases, such as: if the student lives closer to the school in his or her neighborhood than to the school in his or her own country, if there are special social or educational reasons for doing so, or if a student wants training which is not offered in his or her own country. A targeted right for those who need it is a better idea than a general right for everyone. In the case of letters of practice, I believe that this is an important alternative to offer to those students who lack the prerequisites or motivation to enter into an ordinary professional training course, and I support the government's proposal to provide all states with an obligation to offer this option. At the same time, there must be a goal of completing as much regular training as possible and of involving as many students as possible in ordinary apprenticeships after two years. With regard to the proposal to give the opportunity to offer more primary education to young people with a right to secondary education, I would just like to say that it is a proposal I applaud. Students with short periods of residence in Norway and a short period of time in primary school will have very poor conditions for success in higher education and for them to have a fair chance of success, we need to give them an opportunity to improve their diploma from primary school. At Thor Heyerdahl High School in my own county, Vestfold, a trial project has been carried out that has been tried out through a system called the Combination Class. The results have been good, not least in the form of lower non-responses. I hope that more municipalities and county councils will take advantage of the opportunity they now have, and that many will be inspired by what has been done in cooperation between Thor Heyerdahl High School, Larvik Municipality and Vestfold County Municipality. Also with regard to the proposal to establish a recognition system for foreign vocational training, I have to say that it is a proposal I think is good. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal to clarify the rules on when the school obligation ceases to exist abroad. This is a limit that is basically important to clarify. But with regard to the proposal to remove the recommended maximum school age limit, I'm probably not as enthusiastic. I believe, like the Federation of Education, that the government underestimates the importance of this recommendation in the law. There may be a good economy in setting up larger and fewer schools, but it should be educational and not only economic evaluations that underpin the school structure. The Education Association points out that there are limits to the size of a school and that at the same time there are educationally sound practices. If the school becomes too large, there is a risk that the principal will only become an administrator and lose the ability to carry out pedagogical management and development work. This does not mean that it should not be possible to set up large schools, but in a sector that is experiencing a tight economy and ever-increasing demands for efficiency, I think it makes sense to give those who want to focus on the pedagogical assessments a little drag help. I therefore want to keep the legal wording as it stands. The Christian People's Party will vote against the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e553	Our goal is for all students to succeed and that the training offer in all counties is the best possible. The government will now impose an obligation on county municipalities to finance school places for their own students in other counties and to receive guest students from other counties in the event of free capacity. The Labour Party and the rest of the majority of the Committee, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, want a different solution than government. Firstly, because the government's proposal for free schooling can favor students with good grades, not those who need the most to choose freers. Secondly, it is obvious that free choice of schools across county boundaries will make the job more difficult for the county councils that school owners. That is why most municipalities have expressed a negative opinion on this proposal. Dimensioning school provision and providing an optimal school structure is not an easy task at first. This proposal poses greater challenges for the counties to plan a proper number of student places, in particular the districts, and may stimulate the increase in county offers in direct competition with other counties. So even if there is so-called free capacity that controls how many guest students the states are taking in, some states will be able to increase their offer to attract students from other states. This may mean that some states will actually have to pay for other states to increase their capacity, and the consequence is that they may have to reduce supply or, in the worst case, put down lines and schools. A right for some students then leads to more students. That the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, sees no problems with this, is alarming and is not a believer. This case also raises the question of whether the government believes that we should have a politically elected nationally governed school structure in Norway. Now there are two things happening at the same time — a private school law that opens up several private schools and introduces a far more freer school choice. Then it's harder to keep a popular management of the school offer. The overall responsibility of state policies is reduced. The working party is positive to give students a slightly stronger right to school places in other counties. However, the government's proposals have such inconspicuous and major implications for the county councils that the Workers' Party cannot support the government's line. A more sensible solution to enable those students who have a real need to go to school outside the home state to do so is the proposal agreed by the majority of the Committee. Students are given a stronger right to choose, but in fewer – and clearly defined – cases than the government provides, such as in cases where the home state does not provide the training required by the student, where students in border areas are given an unreasonably long internal travel route, which we have seen examples of, where another state has school places closer to the student's home, where there are specific social or educational reasons, or to ensure that Sami students or students with female and Finnish as their mother tongue receive a good offer. If free schooling had been opened up in these cases, the problematic cases we have seen in the media would have been avoided, but without compromising the role of county authorities as school owners. Finally, in another case that the Church, Education and Research Committee has dealt with this week – the absenteeism limit – we have heard representatives from Right-wing arguers strongly that we should all listen to what the teachers and the Federation of Education say and arrive at. I have to say that if the Right Party and the Advance Party had done it consistently, we would probably have had a quite different school policy, among other things. with regard to the view on multiple teachers or competence requirements. In this case, the Education Association has clearly said no to abolish the recommended maximum size of the Education Act for primary schools. The Education Association believes that there are limits to the size of a school and, at the same time, that it is well-managed, and they point out that the principals of schools that are too large may lose their room for pedagogical management and development work. The fact that the teachers are opposed to this proposal does not seem to have moved the government parties to a significant extent. Their desire to listen to the teachers was strong earlier this week, now it seems that the Right Party and the Advance Party are back on their usual track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e566	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation in this matter. It's a big thing, with many small and big changes that everyone, I'd say, makes Norwegian school a little better, especially for those students who need a little bit more. I would like to start with just what is a practical letter, which is a system that has worked well for some of the students who are struggling to pursue vocational education in the ordinary way. Getting the letter can be a tough trick to get to some students. Having a lower threshold, having a slightly different race, which some states have offered, has been important. With the Government's proposals for amendments, which are now widely accepted, there will be a national offer. There will be something all states should offer. It will make everyday life a little easier for some of the students who are perhaps more struggling to motivate themselves to get through school. Now they get the opportunity to do this. With regard to this letter-of-mortgage system, we have made it very clear, not least after the involvement of the social partners, that this should not be equated with other professional education. This shall be an offer for those who need additional follow-up, but it shall not be a searchable line in line with other professional directions. This also includes, as we clearly say in the committee, the need to be aware of this offer, and that students must become familiar with it. The second issue that has created some debate in the committee, which has shown well the two previous speeches, is the discussion of freer school choices across the county boundaries. The proposal implies that if one student wishes to apply for a place in another county and the county where the student is applying for a place for a student, the student shall have the right to attend that school. It is the home state that has to pay and the host state that has to offer the place. It simply means that the Norwegian school students with this decision will have greater freedom of choice than they had before we made the decision. Artificial boundaries and administration shall not prevent students from choosing the lines they want and students from taking the training that best suits them. I have to say that although there is a nuance in the resistance of the parties who today oppose the proposal, there has not been a lack of political creativity in finding out how many problems you can discover with students getting a little more freedom of choice. There has been a great deal of concern, a great deal of care for county councils, how to dimension and how to do this, when it's really about some students who want to choose something else. One thing is to say that you're for freedom of choice, but if you're always out to find out what's the problem with freedom of choice, the rhetoric isn't for believers. I'm going to be quite honest that if a student or user of another welfare system in Norway gets a little more opportunity to choose what he or she wants, it makes it a little more difficult for those who are going to offer that service, because they need to adapt more to the wishes of the citizens. That's the nucleus of this. I am quite willing to say that then the county councils have to go further in order to provide the education that the students actually want. So the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left today are fully supporting this change. The other parties, with the exception of the Center Party, clearly say that they recognize that this gives students greater freedom of choice, but then come up with all the criteria for why it's so terribly difficult. This also gives the possibility to maintain narrower lines because students living in other states can apply to these lines. This allows them to have a larger student base. The representative Martin Henriksen pointed out that this would make the job more difficult for the county council. I believe that when it comes to the issue in this Chamber and we are going to discuss school policy, care for the students must go ahead of care for the county council. This once again means that sometimes we have to establish some rules that ensure students' rights in these areas. At the end of the day, I can't help myself because the representative Henriksen thought that we no longer listen to the teachers: we do that in a number of cases, but in this case perhaps the Workers' Party could listen to the students – as I have heard workers' party politicians ask us to do in connection with the absence limit – and support a greater freedom of choice in the secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e590	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation. This proposition promotes many good proposals for various changes to the Training Act, including: on freer choice of schools across county boundaries and a system of letters of practice. The proposition intends to get more people to complete high school, as well as that we want more freedom of choice. The free choice of schools implies the introduction of an obligation for county councils to finance school offerings in other counties and an obligation to receive guest students under available capacity. Furthermore, it is proposed to provide the county councils with an obligation to provide a letter of practice system in addition to regular vocational secondary education. The proposal also contains legislative proposals to facilitate the provision of more primary school education by municipalities and counties to young people entitled to secondary education. Experience from a school in Larvik shows that this can lead to both increased quality and less dropout in high school. It is also proposed to establish a system for the recognition of foreign vocational training at secondary level, with NOKUT as operationally responsible. For us in the Progress Party, it is important that students who, for various reasons, want admission to secondary schools in counties other than the home state, have the opportunity to do so. The proposed amendment will give many students greater freedom of choice and competition for places is based on characteristics, an objective and good recording criterion. The Party of Progress will point out that this applies only if the host State has free capacity. We will also stress that individual students with special educational and/or social needs should be given priority and refer to the Ministry's justification in the text of the proposal: ‘The Ministry has pointed out in its hearing that there will be cases where individual lives have specific educational and social needs that should prevail over the principle of freedom of choice for all and character-based intake, and that such preferential rights should be regulated more closely in regulations.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Ministry sees that a purely character-based scheme could be easier to manage, but insists on the assessment that there may be cases where individuals have specific needs that should prevail over the principle of freedom of choice for all and character-based intake.’ This shows that students with special needs are well cared for in the case, although some claim the opposite. In addition to the fact that increased freedom of choice is always positive, there is a positive side effect of freedom of choice across county borders: it is some important and traditional subjects that are small and endangered by closure. These will be easier to maintain when secondary schools have a higher student base than is available in each country. The proposal therefore involves both increased freedom and diversity – it is good Progress Party policy. The Progress Party will recall that the announced regional reform will address even more the need for larger inputs, but underlines that that reform process is at a very early stage. There is therefore a need for changes in the law that deal with the current state of the art. The Progress Party considers that the practical letter is a very good alternative to the ordinary professional training course for individual students and indicates that the evaluation of the scheme by the NIFU concludes that it has contributed to increased implementation and lower non-responses than could otherwise be expected from the participants in the programme. Among other things, the practical letter system has very good results in Rogaland. The Progress Party also believes that the aim should be to ensure that as many students as possible carry out an ordinary professional training course, but that at the same time it is important to have alternatives. The Progress Party will warn against the devaluation of the practice letter scheme presented by SV and others. There is a great diversity among students, and everyone does not fit the standard course. Then it is important that the school offers a variety of schemes that provide good job opportunities afterwards. Finally, I would like to point out that through several different school reforms, responsibility for the school has been increasingly transferred to the municipalities. In a long-term country such as Norway, there are significant local and regional differences. Then it is natural that communities themselves should design their school solutions. To find good school solutions locally, school size will only be one of many factors. Student base, industrial structure, area, infrastructure and access to competence are other factors involved. This is a field in which local politicians have the best overview. The Progress Party is confident that local politicians will find the best solutions, and therefore considers that there is no need for a centrally imposed standard of school size.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e626	Firstly, the Central Party regrets that the government, with the support of the Left, is now providing free schooling across state borders. That is, they with the best grades can now apply to high school in the county they want, and the county has to pay the place. This may sound admirable, as the representative Asheim said before, but we know that at first this will be an advantage to those students who have good grades. Today, a guest student guarantee is given to students who live closer to the school in the neighbouring state than is defined as the student’s secondary school. When this proposal is adopted today, these students must compete with students from elsewhere in the county and other counties. Thus, the county authorities lose the opportunity to offer special admissions to students in border areas, i.e. those who may need the most to go to school in the local environment, and students who live near a school but in another state do not receive guest services. When we're going to listen to the students, as they say, we also have to listen to those who don't talk loudest. Where one lives, now it won't matter. In the worst case, a student who lives on Jevnaker in Uppland County and has been searching on the line at Hönefoss high school in Buskerud will risk having applicants from Hamar, Gjøvik, Oslo or Bodø, for that matter, who get the place if they have better grades. That means that those who don't have such good grades from high school may have to move and stay on a hive far away from home, with the challenges it brings to a 16-year-old. Therefore, the Centre Party has been concerned that it would be better to improve the guest student scheme we have today. I think it is paradoxical that the government and the Left today ensure a majority for such a change, when at the same time we know – I know at least – that the experience of Uppland now means that the county council is tightening up free school elections just to ensure the best possible offer for all students throughout the county, so that as little as possible is necessary to live on shelter. Then we are pleased that the government will finally come forward with a proposal for a practical letter, and that this will be offered by all county councils. This is the center game you've been working on for a long time. We agree that it should not be a searchable offer, but be a supplement to the regular professional training course for students who would have difficulty following a normal course. The scheme has proved to work well in the counties that have this offer. But we disagree with the government that county councils should be able to comply with the law by avoiding offering practical letters at a school. Let me stress that it is important that such an offer is not centralised into single schools. This offer must be where students with such needs are. Norway is more than a big city. It can be piggy and far to travel. When it comes to the possibility of expanding primary school education, so-called 11th year of school, we've been skeptical about it in the Center Party. We believe that the extensions that have been of the hour since the six-year-olds started school should be sufficient to teach the students the basic skills they are going to learn. When we then support the proposal, it is particularly with a background in the situation of students with asylum and refugee backgrounds. Students arriving late in school, e.g. in upper secondary education, will not have the same prerequisites and may need more primary education in order to have a real chance of success in secondary education. That is why we support the proposal. But in order for the offer not to be a resting place for school owners who do not follow up their students well enough in the first ten years of school, we believe it is very important that it is primary school owners, i.e. the municipalities, who are to have the overall responsibility, also financially, for such an offer. We cannot allow primary school to shift responsibility to secondary school. They have to take responsibility for basic training while the students go to school. We are therefore pleased that a so-called unanimous committee agrees with us on this. We also believe that as far as the training obligation is concerned, this should apply as long as the child is resident in Norway. In any case, we believe that it is uncertain whether it is the administration or the child that best performs this amendment, and therefore we have asked for an investigation in our own proposal. Finally, we are opposed to removing the law's recommendation on maximum school size. We believe that it would have been wise to keep this maximum limit, so that no pedagogical assessments could fall under the shadow of economic considerations in municipalities with a tight economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e652	Then the President assumes that the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e655	I want to comment on two of the things this case contains, and there's this with free school choice across county boundaries and this with the size of the schools. We in this house are now working on a regional reform. It's still early, but there's more parties that realize that we're going to have bigger regions, and therefore also larger areas of intake than what we're talking about here. The vast majority of students today attend high school in their own state. That is what will be the norm for most people, and if we succeed in regional reform and get larger regions, that will still be the rule. But there's someone who wants something else. There's someone who wants to go to a school that they don't attend through the county border, and then our starting point is that an administrative breakdown shouldn't be a constraint on what students want to get met by their school wishes. So our starting point is that the students themselves have to be allowed to choose which school they want to go to, and then we, as politicians, have to facilitate it. The county council has to deal with people making choices that are outside their entrance, and I think that's completely affordable. It is affordable for the county or new regions that some students want to go to school in another region, and it is affordable that there are some students from other counties or regions who want to come to them. I think we're gonna be fine with this. I would also like to stress that the majority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, point out that when there are individual students with special educational and/or social needs, they should be given priority, and they should not compete on the basis of characters, because there may be some isolated cases out there that have some special needs, and of course we have to take that into account. We cannot make a policy that should not give freedom to everyone, but can nevertheless take care of the individuals who are there. We'll be fine. Some comments about it with school size: I have been a local politician in two municipalities: one municipality with 10,000 inhabitants and one municipality with 120 000 inhabitants. I've been involved in setting up schools, and I've been involved in dropping out of schools. My experience is that the debate is the same, and it's about many different things. Of course, school size is part of it. How many schools do we really want? Or: How small can we have before it is not professionally sound? There are also other things that play in. A natural thing is geography. We're busy putting schools where people live. We're busy making school boundaries that make people suck to the school that's natural for them, so they get to go to school with their friends, the ones in the street, the ones they play with. Such things play a major role in discussing the school structure of a municipality. So that's the question of whether we're going to have 1-10 grade or primary and secondary schools. There is a very important debate in many municipalities when discussing the municipal structure. And my experience is that both I, as a local politician, and my colleagues, as local politicians, take the discussions seriously. You're very busy listening to them as it is to parents, students, teachers and the people as such. I believe that this is a decision that local politicians will continue to take most seriously in the future. School size is today, and is still going to be, one of the important moments when you discuss what kind of schools we're going to have, how many we're going to have, and where we're going to put them. For me, it's about trust in the local politicians we have. It's about trust in looking at the local conditions that are, and the inequalities that we have in our country. When some municipalities have a few thousand inhabitants, while others have many thousands of inhabitants, we need room for different solutions. I sincerely believe that we have good schools that are small, and less good schools that are small, and we have good schools that are large, and less good schools that are large. We have to work with the quality in our schools completely regardless of their size, but when it comes to which schools and how large they should be, I think that's something we should leave to those who sit closest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e674	SV is concerned that all students should have great freedom to choose for themselves which education, training programme and school they want to attend. In everyday school life, participation often involves student-teacher-cooperation, choice of form of work, activities in education, assessment methods that students believe provide increased learning and motivation, and how the school can facilitate well-being and security for all. The goal is for all students to realize their life project, nothing less. I think the perspective of the government on what is freedom of choice is terribly narrow. We should have the big picture: how does anyone get the most freedom to exploit their potential, to develop themselves, to get a day-to-day school on their own premises? The government is concerned that high school students will be given greater freedom to choose a school located in a different state than the one in which they live. Yes, there is also SV concerned about. SV is concerned that students should have the greatest possible freedom of choice. But the question that is always omitted when the right-hand side comes with its so-called free school choices is: Who's freedom, and at what price? There are several challenges to what the government is promoting in relation to so-called free school choices. Let me mention two: First, it is sometimes that the desire for freedom for a few can go at the expense of the interests of the community and thus affect many others. I know it's popular in the Right Circles to raddle with the County. It's kind of funny in itself to say ‘communities’, but if I were the government parties, I would take the recordings that have come – not only from the county councils, but also from the Education Association and several others – a little more seriously, because they're about how we're going to avoid centralisation of the school offer, which will affect the freedom of many students. The possibility of attending a school in its vicinity is also an important freedom for many. We get a narrower offer if schools and educational programmes are shut down over time because of the policies of the right-hand side, both local and national, and which, through many different approaches, are moving in that direction: more character-based admissions, more private schools, etc. This reduces the possibilities of dimensioning offers in relation to the number of educational places in the county as well. Secondly, do all students get freer school choices? No, unfortunately it's not like that. It's the students who have the best grades who get more freedom. What we fear is that if it becomes difficult to maintain a secondary school principle and a geographically controlled school selection within the counties, it will put pressure on several states that today have such a model, to get away from it. In SV, we are followers of a secondary school principle also in terms of admission to higher education. The experience with it from several states is good and shows that such a model can make more students go to the school they want than a purely character-based recording will do. 'Free choice' is actually a misleading concept. We should stop using it. It's character-based recording that the right-hand side is for, and that, of course, only implies freedom of choice for some students, namely those who have the best grades. Therefore, SV is part of the majority of the Committee that wants to ensure that students have a stronger right to cross county borders and to have school places where necessary, for example. when a student is unable to receive the training offered to him or her, or when the route becomes extra long because a school in another State is geographically closer, or when there are social or educational reasons that suggest that it is a good idea to cross the county border, or for students who have Sami, female or Finnish language as their mother tongue. So there are opportunities to secure that kind of freedom of choice, without going so far, and with the negative consequences, that the right-hand side adds up to. My time runs out, but let me stress that we in SV are satisfied with what is now coming in terms of practical letters. We have some warnings about the implementation of this, to which we hope the Council of State will listen, not least the Council for an evaluation after three to five years. But that's the right step to take, and that's where we support the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e692	This bill has a number of both large and small proposals. The common denominator is in part that there are proposals for simplification, which make the system and legislation more flexible, so that it is easier to facilitate the individual. The second is that several of the proposals can also make it easier to get more people to complete high school. When it comes to the possibility of more primary education, legalizing what some have called the Larvik model, I am very happy that it gets a lot of support. Thor Heyerdahl secondary school, as the representative Tyvand also mentioned, has done this. In reality, even though it may seem offensive – as the representative of the Central Party said, that after so many years of schooling, one should be able to do this properly – this will, as the representative also stressed, apply in practice to those who have come to Norway, not before school start but in the course of school. I think this is right to do simply because with today's system there are a lot of students, or at least some students, who start high school without actually getting what they need from primary school first. Then there is a more important consideration than the concern that this should be a new system for all. In the case of freer school choices across county boundaries, there is an important issue, in principle, precisely because the majority of the parties are concerned about the choice of students. Freedom of choice is a value in itself. At the same time, the proposal has also been put in place, and that is, I must say, a very moderate proposal. As a general rule, under today’s legislation, young people do not have the right to admission to secondary schools in counties other than home. In order to be eligible for secondary education at schools in other counties, individual applicants depend entirely on their home country being willing to finance the school place. That's where we go in and give the students a handshake. We believe that all students should have the opportunity to apply to other states, and that there should be a stronger right-holding than today. We therefore propose an obligation for the county to accept guest students if they have available capacity, and an obligation for the county to pay for one school place in another state. There is reason to believe that this will make it easier for some smaller schools, precisely because they will be able to attract students from other counties as well and thus have a chance to survive — a good contribution to a decentralised school structure. Policy lettering system: trials started in 2007. The evaluation of the trials concluded that the practical letter scheme has contributed to a much lower drop-out and to a better implementation of vocational training for participants. So the government has listened to, among other things. the recordings from LO, which have been concerned with the fact that the practical letter system does not have to become a way of weakening the diplomas, that it should therefore not be a general open solution that everyone can apply for, but a custom offer for those who need it. We start in a trust-based way. So, we're legislating it. All the counties must have it. But it is clear that it is a very strong signal also from Stortinget that this is not something to be taken lightly on in the counties. The store also says through the treatment of this case that this is something you are so concerned about that if it turns out that several states are pushing this away, or if they were not really going to use the possibility contained in practical letters, I read at least the Stortinget and the parties so that then you are not unwilling to assess further legalisation or further claims. Non-resident vocational training qualification scheme no one has commented. It is an important proposal that we get a national system for the recognition of foreign vocational training. This could contribute to a better exploitation of the overall competence of the workforce. Clarification of the termination of the training obligation in the event of a stay abroad is widely supported. And then there's discussion about minimum school size. I believe that the most important argument for it is not really about school size, but it is about what the law should be and not be. I believe that regulation should be used to establish rights and obligations, and that requests and recommendations that are not legally binding can help undermine the law. That is why we have proposed this. In addition, it will mean that local politicians, as today, will continue to assess this. It is a discussion that I believe belongs locally in the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e718	The right-wing representatives put forward the argument on freedom of choice in this case, but it should be noted that this case is about a scarcely competitive one. Therefore, it is difficult to argue that this gives real freedom of choice to students in the country. It will not be an option for all students in the country when they are based on those with the best qualifications. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have one exception: social and pedagogical needs. But in general, it can be said that this will be freedom of choice for the few, not for everyone. It is worth noting that both the representative Asheim and the Council of State really exclude the possibility of taking into account both the greater freedom of choice of students and the need to ensure comprehensive management of the school offer – popular governance. I would like to ask the Council of State, when he and other representatives from the Right and the Advance Party argue with the students' needs: what needs should students have to choose outside their own country is the majority's proposal in this case not covered? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e727	We have a long night in front of us in this room, and I will ask the representatives to observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e730	I think it's an honest and straightforward disagreement if you think that the county council's need to dimension is more important than the students' choice. The reasoning I cannot understand is that there is more freedom of choice by asking the individual student to apply to the county council for the most graceful permission to go to another school. The best contribution to freedom of choice for all pupils would be the introduction of free school choices by all states in Norway. You can do that, but there's a disagreement. Where the red-greens are given power, you limit the students' freedom of choice. Where the Right Party and the Advance Party have had the power, the freedom of choice of students is increased. So, of course, it's an obvious point that freedom of choice does not mean that all students in a state, if everyone applies to one school, will come in there. That doesn't mean, of course, but it's even more fair, I think, that school entrances are based on grades, than it's based on how your parents can afford to buy houses or happen to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e735	First of all, I would like to apologise for extending today's meeting between 5 and 10 seconds – it should not be repeated. Then I would say to the Council of State that here the majority or red-green parties have not put the wishes of the county councils in front of the students. In this case, the majority in this room, including the Workers' Party, will increase students' opportunities. But what's interesting is to see what's completely absent in the Right Party's argument, namely the understanding of how Norway is connected, and the need for a good school offer across the country. When there are fewer students in a region or district, it leads to a narrower and poorer offer. There will be no better freedom of choice for the majority of students when a line or school has to be laid down because the students have applied elsewhere. So it's going to go beyond the majority of students. Yesterday, the Stortinget debated regional reform. It will provide greater input areas and better educational opportunities. Why would the Council of State not even wait for that treatment when we now have larger regions and fewer counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e744	It's because I'm tired of reading stuff in the papers where students who live close to a school are forced by a rigid code to travel five, ten, fifteen miles to go to another school just because it happens to be in the same state. That's why this case is coming now. Then there's a big discussion about free school choices in general. It's not a secret that the Right Party and the Advance Party want free school elections even within the counties. But this is a much more moderate proposal than that. Here you don't say that all students will compete in all schools throughout Norway based on grades, you say that where there are surplus places, the students can go to other counties. And then you say most importantly that the county has an obligation to pay. I think, to be absolutely honest, that it's quite reasonable, for a student who doesn't go in state A, but chooses to go in state B, after all, doesn't become an expense item in the first state. It is reasonable and sensible, and it will solve a very concrete problem that too many students experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e751	First of all, I believe that the Council of State here totally ignores the danger of what I almost want to call school speculation, that some states are increasing their offer – wanting larger schools and larger lines and larger trade unions – in order to attract students from other states, in competition with neighboring countries. Secondly, the Council of State did not answer my first question. So when the Right Party and the Advance Party – and the State Council here – argue with the students’ need to choose across county borders, the majority have put forward a proposal here, listing cases where it is considered that students should be given a stronger right to choose and obtain school places in other counties. What are the needs of the State Council students, which are not covered by that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e758	That's the need to go to another school. To give you a simple example: a student might, for example, be a student. have looked at the mathematics offer at different high schools, and have seen that: do you know what, I think in Hedmark County, high school has a better mathematical offer than here in Uppland County. There is no need to be caught by the proposal of the majority in the Committee, for there must be health or welfare reasons, and then an application system must be in place. But if it's just that my friend lives over there, I have a lot of good friends there, I want to go to that school, it doesn't get caught either. Or should you have an application system where you have to justify to the county council that you have more friends on the other side of the county border and therefore have the right to release this guarantee that the Workers' Party and the SV will introduce with more? I think it's a bad system. I want free schooling in all states of Norway. This is a very moderate change, which means that the students who want to cross the county borders know at least that the money the county saves, they have to send with them on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e765	A good argument for freer school choices is that you can see a larger intake area as a whole and that it provides better opportunities to create narrow training provision. But we can also achieve that through the model proposed by the majority of the Committee, and at the same time we avoid the negative consequences that we are now afraid of. When we are critical of the government's proposals, it is not about such intense care for the county council, but about the students who live in the counties. For is it not that freer student flows could affect the dimensioning of the training provision in the individual counties? And if that's the case, isn't it at the same time a risk that some students who want to go to school in their own county could get a worse offer than what they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e772	With this proposal it is not a problem, simply because it is a guest student guarantee if schools have free capacity. In other words, you don't get an automatic right to go to a school, but what you get is a right to get the money if you get into the county you're applying for. That's really what's new in this case, that they say to the county that they have an obligation to pay. Today it's very arbitrary -- some states do, some states don't. They get an obligation to pay if one student has chosen to go to a school in another state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e778	The council said he was tired of reading notices that students who live near one school had to travel five, ten, fifteen miles to go to another school, and I agree, we shouldn't have such phrases. The council also says that there should be a restriction here, and it's that the reception school has free space, but if it's like applying for grades, it's actually going to be the characters that determine whether the school has free space or not. In addition, we can also imagine that some schools want to build up their capacity, just to attract students from other states. When we talk about the freedom of choice of the «eleven» – which students have the freedom of choice? It's not the ones that'll be left, who don't have enough grades to apply to the nearest school. As a result, we can reduce the capacity of some district schools, which means that study facilities are closed down, and that those who do not have such good grades actually have to go there. Then I wonder: why can we not just tighten up the guest student scheme that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e785	This is, of course, a strong tightening of the guest-level guarantee, which some states practice – not by the guest-level right; it is not there today. This bill makes that if one lives in a state and goes to high school there, one will not get into a situation where there comes a horde from another state, which in turn forces one to seek school space in another state. It does not imply this proposal. The students who live in a state will still have the right to attend school in that state. And then there are some states that have free school choices, and others that don't have them. What might become a problem is that some states choose to be very offensive — building up a lot more capacity, making good school offerings that students want to go on — to attract students and funding from other states. I can live with it if county councils spend time, resources and money building up school offerings that students want, and in that way maybe also inspire other counties – like when the students move away from – to think through what they can do better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e792	It's very simple, this rhetoric that the students are going to have to choose what they want. I miss a willingness to reflect at the Council of State and at the Right, linked to the fact that the back of the system that the Right wants more from out in the counties – and this is if not the largest, so one of many contributions – is that there are a good number of students who are not allowed to choose. We are now in a city with a major problem of segregation in school, and we know from education research that it is often an advantage that students with slightly different backgrounds are allowed to learn together. The so-called free choice of school is not a free choice, it is a character-based admission, which, at its worst, separates and creates its own schools for those who are best off, and its own schools for those who are worse off. Cannot the Council of State at least acknowledge that this is about character-based admission – and not free choice for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e799	Free choice also means having a way to figure out what to do if you have a search, and there are grades, and I think grades are more fair than it is based on where you live. I think Oslo is a very good example. In Oslo, it would in fact have meant — if you had cut everything that is called free choice — that, for example, schools such as Oslo Cathedral School, or central schools such as the River Basin, are only available to those who can afford to buy a dwelling in the centre, or nearby, of that school circle. I was at Oslo Cathedral School a while ago, and then I heard the story of what it was like in Oslo before you had free school choices. Then there were very, very many people who applied to the Latin line, if I don't remember wrong, because on the Latin line there was free schooling from all over the city, because there were no other schools that offered. I'm very happy that we're maintaining a Latin tradition, but I don't think you should apply to the Latin line in a school just because it's not in your school circle. Just in a segregated city, which Oslo may sometimes seem like, free choice of school is all the more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e808	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e813	After 22 years of reform 94, and after all governments and magnificence since that time have been talking about that it is essential to bet on early work in primary school, primary school, the drop-out rate, the drop-out rate, the drop-out rate, in high school, is as high as it has always been — is over 30 p.m. and over 40 pst. in the professional field. I took up an interview with the State Council last November that we also need to develop better measures for those who are actually at risk of falling out, or have fallen out. I am very pleased that the Council of State and the Committee are coming back now with more concrete measures for them as well, and that we can talk about this and not just what is also very important: early action. Better medicine is also needed in this area. One of the things we talked about was practical letters. I got the Stortingen Investigation Section to investigate the situation with the practical letter system around the country. As they went through all the counties, they were told that there were six states that had conducted trials on this since the scheme was introduced in 2008. They stated that there were only 61 completed letters of practice in the period, and 34 had gone on to complete the apprenticeship, taking a vocational letter – a total of 95, as stated by the counties. Today, Oslo has six places on a particular line, the line in Subway. More and Romesdal have 18 seats, Rogaland has nine seats. It was these three states that stated that they have places today. I have to say that there is an enormous need to oblige the states to establish this system on a completely different basis and on a completely different scale from what we have seen in the period since 2008, to what we see today. It has to be available within many of the practical disciplines, and there has to be more tools to develop good enough offers. So I'm glad that the Council of State underlined it, that you can come back with more pressure, more tools to put in if it doesn't work. To illustrate the need: In my own part of town, Alna part of Groruddalen, which is one of four districts there, the person in charge of the city works with 500-600 ‘drop outs’, students who do not have an offer today. For many of these, practical letters could be a very relevant offer – 500–600 in one of 15 urban areas in Oslo. So here you have to work wide. There are not enough six places in one school, for example. I'm also very happy that you're coming back with extended primary education. It's been called for. I remember being with the principal at Stovner School, who said that we have a lot of people hanging around the schoolyard who have actually done it since they went out without grades from primary school and without basic knowledge. I would like to thank you for coming back today with two important measures in terms of primary school and practical letters, and I hope that you will go further, especially on one point, that you will be notified from day one when you are about to fall out, and that you will not wait for two or three collection dates a year, which means that many people are going for a long time in an empty space.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e832	Our job is to make sure that as many as possible have good opportunities to succeed in life. Good education for the most part is an important part of it – to Sander, who lives in West Telemark, to Oda in Porsgrund and to Noora and William in Oslo. When I was the county food rapporteur in Telemark, we had one important school policy mantra, and there was good education near where people live. It was a mantra we had, not for county councils, not for state politics, but for students. It sounds like a matter of course, but it was difficult to get into a state, as in most other counties in Norway, with large distances, scattered settlements, concentrated urban areas and large districts. This was the starting point. In addition, we had to take into account declining student numbers, shortages in educational places, and not least — and of course — the educational choices of young people in 13 educational programmes. It's a fine-skinned system. It requires planning, and you depend on the predictability you can get to give as much as possible a good offer. I therefore agree with the majority of the county councils, who are sceptical about facilitating free school choice across the county boundaries. I am afraid that this could lead to greater challenges of dimensioning the school offer than we already have today – something that we know is going to affect the students and perhaps those who live in the very most vulnerable areas of admission in a county, and perhaps especially in the vocational study programmes. It's also the case that such a system is going to go beyond those students who have the worst starting point to compete on grades. And then the question is: free school choice for whom? This does not mean that the Workers' Party does not consider that there is a need for cleaning up in practice and legislation on how to deal with guest students. It's a fact that there are different practices around the country, and that's not true either. Therefore, the Labour Party agrees to ensure that students have a stronger right to apply for school space across county borders, but that there should be fewer and clearly defined cases than the government provides. That's the way we ensure the school offering for the most part. That's the way we guarantee freedom, not just for someone, but for the most part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e843	I've been a high school teacher, and I know a little bit about what's the challenge for the youth group when it comes to elections. It's often that they choose a little too much, they choose a little as their friends do, they want to go to the school that their friends go to – and they've gone to school before. I was a sailor in my own campaign when I started high school, to be in class with my friends – in order to have the same team to be with. That's the usual. You apply to the nearest school. Sometimes youths need a little motivation to actually choose something else, because there is something else that challenges their potential. Then I've been a state politician. I've been sitting with the application bench for those who want to choose something else, those who actually want to go to a school that's a bit away. It's one of the most heartbreaking things I've ever done, especially as a state politician in the North-Tronde Team, where I was the only one who actually thought they'd be allowed to choose something else. The right voted me down with bragging and bram, because we were going to stick to the intake limits in the Nord-Trøndelag. Then I sat with applications from young people who had experienced bullying throughout high school. They thought it was awful that they were going to go with the same high school crowd, they wanted to stay with Grandma just to start something new – young people who wanted to change the environment because they and their parents really agreed that it might be time to change the environment to avoid getting on the outside, take the wrong direction. All the applications that were in front of us in that application panel, the applications to break the square geographical system, were stories of individual creatures who chose something else because it was important in their lives. It was as heartbreaking every time you said no and they were told that they had to go to the same school they had gone, with the same crowd they had been with in high school, sail if they didn't like it. If for some reason they want to move far or want to choose another school, they usually have a reason for which we should have respect, because most youths will choose the nearest one. Most youths will choose to go to school with their friends. Most youths should really be pushed to dry to pick something new, not just pick the same crowd. But in reality, we see time and time again that when someone actually takes the step and moves a little bit further geographically in order to get a new chance, it's the regulations, the peculiarity of county councils and all the strict forms we're going to put them into. I think we should have respect for those who want to make that choice no matter what reason they really have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e854	This has been a debate in which some arguments have been put forward. You describe problems you want to solve, and then all of the parties really agree that we have to solve these problems. We're going to make sure that people living near the border can go to a school that's practical. And to the last post, we're going to help people who are bullying and need to change the environment. But you don't have to introduce free school choices across county boundaries to solve it. As Lightbaken said, this is a character-based recording. Do you think that those who are bullied and have good grades should change school, while those who are bullied and have bad grades should not change school? That's not true. We have to solve the problem that is described, and find a system for it. The representative Tyvand described quite well that our proposal solves it, so we get to stick to the issue, fix the problem and create a system that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e863	It was a bit the same thing, to Skei Grande's posts – as I thought was an excellent post for the model proposed by the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party: It's with our model we can say that there are precisely these reasons for students who have good reasons to cross a county border, who are supposed to trigger getting a school place – instead of this automatic, character-based model that is really, I mean, an attempt from the Right to put national pressure on the states to introduce the recording model they want into several states. There are good reasons not to do so, and it is tempting to go further into the discussion of Oslo with the Council of State. But we see that in many states it is fully possible to have a flexible recording system without a purely character-based system, which is in practice the strongest right, and which – if it turns out to be its most unfortunate – contributes to a segregation in school that we don't need, because it's good to have a school where students with different backgrounds go together. Then, of course, it's not like anyone wants a system where everyone who lives around the Cathedral School in Bergen or "Katta" in Oslo is the only ones who should be allowed to come in there. I went to one of the middle schools in Bergen when I went to high school. There we were students from all over the city, even from all over the country – students with different backgrounds, with different grades, but that was basic health. The right system creates elite schools. What lies below this proposal is an objective to push that model into several states. But what the opposition parties – with the exception of the Left, unfortunately – have shown is an alternative model that solves the problems the county boundaries create today, but without pushing the recording system further in the direction of character-based recording, also in the counties that don't have it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e874	If, after Trine Skei Grande's posts, we were going to continue with "silver research" and our own examples, I could say a lot about my ten years in Troms County. But what is the task of state politicians – and indeed of all politicians – is to balance different concerns with each other, to ensure a good offer for all students, in all parts of the country, in all parts of a state, against the freedom of choice that we believe students should have. Let me first say that I think it's good that it's cleaned up in some things. One of the examples of a student who was unable to choose because of a rigid system that actually gave quite unreasonable consequences was the student who was rewritten in the VG, from Lødingen North in the Nordic region, who had to go all the way south in the Nordic region, Norway's longest state, to Lake Sandnesseen – was it well – to take a school offer there when he could have received an offer in Harstad, my municipality of residence, just near. So it's clearly quite unreasonable the rules we have. This is also why the majority here are proposing changes to deal with the type of cases where there is a lack of provision near the home, which, for example, care for students who are exposed to bullying and need to change the school environment, and a wide range of other cases. But I have to say, in my reply to the Council of State, I believe that what he first referred to as a moderate proposal, in his answers went from being moderate to being much less moderate. It is quite obvious that it is primarily a character-based intake without a state limit, with some constraints, for example. the free capacity of the county to receive. But there is, as I said, a risk of pure competition. If you have seen the application pattern in the counties, in particular the counties that have both districts and cities, you know that for many state politicians, there is a struggle to ensure a school offer throughout the county – just to ensure that students do not travel long or move and stay on the dormitory in order to receive a secondary school offer. And when you give the obligation to pay, you make it harder to fund lines and schools in the home state. If you add the cuts to the county council at the top – e.g. the three Northern Norwegian counties were cut by 350 million. In the next few years, does maintaining quality and schooling make it easier or more difficult? It's obviously harder. The solution must be to ensure greater opportunities for students to choose, but at the same time to maintain this balance which makes it possible to ensure a school offer in all parts of the county. I fear that the majority here in this Chamber and the government are so ideologically driven that you can't see any of these contradictions that have emerged – not just here in the Chamber, but from the county councils – that this is an ideological desire that can now create new problems, instead of just ensuring a moderate, balanced solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e890	When it comes to the question of who is most ideologically driven in terms of students' interests, I don't think it's the Right Party and the Advance Party that should be in the pit of shame, just because the system we've been up for many years now, as the representative Martin Henriksen so well pointed out, and as I know very well, because this also applied to my home country, Troms, shows how the coincidences have turned out because there are different political majority in different states, who practice guest guarantees, dimensioning and free school elections very differently, and therefore it makes it very random. If we're going to stand on the Great Council's pulpit and list what we think are good reasons to be able to choose a little bit more freely than you can today -- yes, of course, you can never include all the considerations and all the assessments that the different students represent. What I think is a very strong logical flaw is the rhetoric exercised by the pulpit that you have so-called character-based admission to this system. Well, it's now like having a character-based recording in all the counties of high school. No one is applying for a secondary school without having a character basis to decide whether or not to enter the line on which you are applying for it. There's a lot of lines that have access, and you're actually not allowed to go on that particular line because you don't have enough grades, and that's also why we have nine different choices divided into three different program subjects when applying for higher education. So there's already competition today on grades, and I can't help seeing that the proposal that we're now dealing with here is helping to rock it. I think that is a good principle. There should be opportunities for each student to reach out if you want to make a different choice. Then you can have the opportunity to go to school, get the characters that are necessary to get into that line, and then we don't stand here and drive to list what are good and bad reasons. There should be no politicians to do. We have to respect all young people's wishes and their will to be a little bit different and make some choices. That is why, of course, I hope that we not only get through this system, but that in the future we will get even more freer school choices. It deserves Norwegian youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e897	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e911	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e918	It has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur on this matter, which deals with changes in the law of higher education on a number of different points. The government is proposing changes such as: are about the quality development of institutions, and how supervision is to be organised is about the right to facilitate the work of fellow students after a doctoral degree is about the creation of a digital diploma portal, as well as several other different provisions of the law; I would like to thank the Committee for good and constructive cooperation and point out that there is a great deal of consensus and support for the Government's amendments. Several of the legislative proposals proposed by the government promote in the proposal follow from the structural communication, which we dealt with in the Storting last year, where the government announced a review of the legislation to ensure that the institutions carry out adequately the quality work resulting from the technical powers. One of the changes made is to extend the board of directors of NOKUT, which is the national body for quality in education, with one member, in order to ensure representation also from the vocational school students. So from now on, students from both universities, colleges and colleges will be represented on the board of NOKUT, and that's both fair and fair. Another step is to change the model of NOCUT’s supervisory and accreditation work to clarify that NOCUT is to oversee the overall quality performance of institutions. An overall committee is in favour of increasing the emphasis on quality, but we note the input that has come to raise the problem that the quality concept is not clearly defined in the law. To this end, the Committee clarifies the need for good involvement of universities and colleges in the operationalisation of the concept of quality work by the NOCUT before the supervision of the new model is carried out. With regard to changes in the calculation of the duration of service for fellows, it is about correcting what I believe is a bias in today's system. After today's legislation, doctoral education at universities and colleges is considered to be a duty period under the Civil Service Act. It has the unfortunate consequence that grant holders often do not have short-term exposures right after completion of education and that institutions must expel promising candidates, unless they have a firm position to offer. There has also been an important point for the government to facilitate open competition for scientific positions in the sector. Strengthening the quality of higher education is a major priority for the government, and this legislative proposal is a small piece of the major work currently being done in the sector. The government has presented a long-term plan for higher education and research, with bold objectives and quality as a keynote. The structural changes in the university and higher education sectors are also aimed at improving the quality and quality of our higher education institutions. In the government’s work on new teacher training, one of the steps was to conduct national delectionary examinations in some subjects or subjects. The aim is to be able to compare studies between institutions in order to use each other’s experience to further develop the study offer. It could make valuable contributions to improving the quality of the higher education sector. For this reason, the government proposes to introduce a general authorisation to be able to impose on institutions national delectionary examinations on some subjects. It is worth pointing out the good experience of NOCUT from national bachelor’s degree programmes in auditing and accounting and bachelor’s degree in nursing, but it is not a goal to introduce national delectionary examinations in any context. Opinions have been shared on the use of national delectuaries, and it is important to stress that this tool must be used wisely and in close cooperation with the professional communities. Finally, I would like to mention the establishment of a national diploma and character portal, which will contribute to a safer and simpler way for candidates to make their results visible to potential employers. Overall, these are legislative changes that, in total, contribute to improving the quality of higher education. The very best thing we can do to ensure value creation and welfare in the future is to invest in education and research, where good quality must be at the heart of it. That's what the government does in a broad sense. The government strengthens schools and teachers, and we strengthen both investment and quality in higher education and research. As I said, this amendment is a small piece in one of the main government projects, which is about laying the foundation for what we're going to live on in the future. And that's knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e958	The case rapporteur has given us a good overview of what this amendment to the law is about, so I don't want to spend time on it. On the other hand, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation in the Committee, which has needed clarifications from the Committee. Most of the laws proposed by the government are of an unproblematic nature, as the Labour Party sees it, with one exception. The changes related to national delexams are the point where there has been the most exposure in advance. The reason for this is that for a few subjects and studies in Norway, education is expected to be more or less the same in its entirety, or on selected subjects is almost the same. Some subjects are managed by detailed framework plans, and some professional subjects are subject to authorisation. In other words, there is a expectation of a specific competence and a level of knowledge for the person who has passed the examination. At the same time, this is a subject which, like all other subjects, must have academic freedom. This can be seen to conflict with each other. This is particularly true of teacher training that the debate has taken place. New framework plans for primary school teacher training will now be put in place and, in this context, the government wants to make greater use of the national delec­tionary syllabus. That is the background to the bill. The working party sees advantages in introducing such an examination in carefully selected subjects. It may help to ensure increased quality and it will be possible to compare more closely the same study at different institutions. However, in the hearing replies, there was, in part, strong opposition to the introduction of such national delec­tionary examinations. This justifies several instances that academic freedom is threatened by such a standardised examination which must be equal irrespective of the place of study and institution. In addition, pedagogical disciplines warn against the risk that education will be adapted to the examination form and that the examination form will be more focused than the professional assessment of the learning outcomes. There is an objection I believe is highly relevant. Therefore, national delectuaries must be used with care and only where it serves the purpose. The working party is pleased that the Stortinget emphasises that national delectionary examinations should only be used to a limited extent and primarily in subjects governed by framework plans etc. Pilot projects have already been launched, and the experience gained from pilot projects must be emphasised in the possible continuation of these and the introduction of the sub-assemblies in new training. In order to succeed in making changes with great resistance, it is essential to cooperate closely with those amendments to which they apply. If national delectionary examinations are to succeed as intended, it is important that the professional communities have an influence on their development and implementation. Good anchoring in professional environments will prevent the introduction of the national delec­tionary panel from interfering with institutions’ study provision in an premature manner or leading to a uniformisation of education. Then I hope that we will get national delectuaries in the subject where they are suitable, and that we refrain from doing so in the subject that is not well-founded. It is therefore important that pilot projects are properly reviewed and evaluated and that the Stortinget be briefed on this. I am pleased that there is no support for the government's original proposal for almost a blank mandate to impose such national delectuaries on all subjects. Such national delectionary examinations may work in specific disciplines, in some fields of education, but opening them up in all disciplines seems unnecessary to me, and it seems rapidly provocative in a sector that feels that academic freedom is being pushed from different walks of life. I am therefore pleased that the setting clearly limits the possibility of introducing national delectionary examinations in general. Finally, a few words about temporaryity and changes made to the calculation of the duration of service of fellows. The proportion of temporaryity is too high in the UH sector. It is worrying, and there is even more cause for concern that the proportion has increased in the last two years. In this way, the sector does not appear to be attractive to graduates, and it is very unfortunate since we need the most competent academics into the research environments. I would like to point out that there is disagreement between the Ministry and the social partners on how this change in the calculation of service time will turn out. The fear of researchers may lead to an increase in the use of temporaryity. The ministry is of a different opinion. I would ask the Council of State to take this issue very seriously, as well as to monitor developments. If it turns out that the Swedish Research Association and the NTL are right in their concerns, the Council of State should consider countermeasures quickly and, where appropriate, be willing to reverse the re-organisation of the calculation of the duration of the service of fellows.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e981	The Progress Party believes that this proposition contains a number of good proposals, on which there have been good discussions in the Committee. Several of the legislative proposals promoted by the government are the result of the structural reform in the university and higher education sectors, where the government announced a review of the legislation to ensure that the institutions carry out the quality work resulting from the professional mandates. The Progress Party is pleased that a Joint Committee shares the view that it is important to ensure the representation of vocational school students on the board of NOCUT. The party is committed to getting more people to choose vocational education. Ensuring the same rights and representation in key institutions as university students is an important tool in this context. The part of progress is also satisfied with the large weight that is now being put on quality work. We must bear in mind that Norwegian industry and labour are highly skilled. It requires that we have high-quality educational institutions. Norway must therefore have the ambition to have schools and universities at the top of the world. Better study quality is an essential factor in ensuring employment access to skilled labour, which is necessary for future value creation. In this work, the government's proposal to change NOCUT's supervisory responsibilities towards institutions from quality assurance system to quality work is a good initiative. The Progress Party supports the Committee's emphasis on the need for the good involvement of universities and colleges in the operationalisation of the concept of 'quality work' by Nokut. The Party considers that it is important that such supervision should be carried out in accordance with foreseeable criteria and with respect for the autonomy of the institutions. We also note that the University of Oslo points out that the amendment of the law can lead to: ‘a form of standardisation, in which the concept of quality – for reasons of the feasibility of supervision – is not linked to the professional profile, research orientation and contextual aspects of the programmes.’;» These are understandable and important objections, which it is important to consider. At the same time, the Party will point out the need for new initiatives in quality work. Unfortunately, the report ‘Perceptions of higher education quality’ – NOKUT, 2013 – shows that the quality of higher education has not evolved in line with the intentions of the Quality Reform. This gives cause for concern and shows that the educational institutions have not implemented the possibilities of quality reform which gave them the opportunity to improve the quality of student provision. The Progress Party will also demonstrate that a broad majority of the Hearing Authorities support the Government's proposals. At the same time, we would stress that this is just one of many steps in improving the quality of higher education. The Progress Party shares the Ministry's assessment that it is important to facilitate open competition in scientific positions in the sector. We believe that the government's proposals will contribute precisely to that, which will enhance the quality of the sector. The Party of Progress will point out that the Ministry considers that the proposal will not adversely affect the overall level of temporaryity in the sector. In this context, the Progress Party will also indicate that the government has sent amendments to the Civil Service Act to facilitate less temporaryity in universities and colleges. The Committee welcomes the fact that the majority of the Committee sees that national delectionary examinations in individual training courses can be a valuable contribution to quality work. Information from national delectuaries allows professional communities to share experience and further develop education. Another point of this, which we in the Progress Party will stress, is that national delectuaries will contribute to greater flexibility and seamless transitions between several educational institutions. We believe this contributes to increased quality and to greater predictability and freedom of choice for both students and employees. The Progress Party also notes that several bodies justify their opposition to national delectuaries by threatening academic freedom when introducing standard models. The Progress Party agrees that this may be a hazard but would stress that national delectionary examinations should only be introduced where it is natural and that work on this must be done in close cooperation with the individual institutions. Good anchoring in professional environments will prevent the introduction of national delec­tionary examinations from interfering with institutions' study provision in an unlucky way or leading to a uniformisation of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1010	Thanks to the rapporteur for a job well done. This is a proposition that contains several good legislative proposals that the Christian People's Party ends up on, but also proposals that, in our view, are not quite so good. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to extend NOKUT's government, so that the vocational school students are also represented. That is a good suggestion. We support the proposal to change the NOCUT model of supervision and quality work, but we note that several hearing bodies note that the quality concept is not clearly defined in the law, and that the framework of NOCUT supervision can thus appear somewhat unclear. The University of Oslo fears that legislative changes can contribute to some sort of standardisation. The faculty is concerned with something of the same thing when they are concerned that good quality does not necessarily mean identical quality. Therefore, I believe that there is a need to stress both the fact that NOKUT’s requirements must be foreseen for the sector and that the supervisory mandate must not be designed in a way that threatens the autonomy and autonomy of the institutions. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal that Bachelor's degree should be the minimum unit for the accreditation of new educational providers. We also support the change, which means that the time that scholarship holders spend on their own doctoral training is not taken into account in the calculation of service time. There are several reasons why we think that's a correct change. But the most important thing is that it's a very real problem that young, promising researchers don't get a job because the institutions they've been fellow at don't dare to offer them an commitment after the end of the scholarship period, unless they have a permanent position to offer. It's precisely because the strong protection against dismissal occurs immediately. I respect those who fear that this will lead to increased temporaryity in the sector, but I think there are other instruments that need to address that challenge. When the representative Marianne Aasen points out that it is a problem that the sector appears to be not attractive to newly educated people because of the widespread use of temporaryity, I fully agree with that. But it doesn't make it any better that institutions also refuse to hire newly-trained researchers because the protection against dismissal is so strong from day one. Then I notice – and am very satisfied with – that the government has sent to the hearing proposals for changes to the Civil Service Act that aim to facilitate less temporaryity at universities and colleges. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposal to provide the ministry with a general basis for introducing national delectionary examinations. This is a proposal that meets massive opposition from the hearing bodies. I fear that the proposed legislative amendment will lead to more standardisation and a weakening of autonomy. I am also afraid that the competence of national examinations will be given greater emphasis in education, and that it will be at the expense of the competence that cannot necessarily be tested and measured in a standardised way. The Ministry considers it top-notch that the proposed legislative change can provide the basis for more extensive comparisons between different educational institutions, but I am probably more in agreement with the Research Association and share the concern that the increased level of ranking across the board may be negative and contribute to unfortunate changes in education. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the proposal to establish a national diploma and character portal. I think this is a good proposal. I think it can be an important contribution to preventing the falsification of diploma and character transcripts. However, as a unanimous committee also stresses, it is very important that the privacy of the holders of the diplomas is adequately protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1031	As has been said several times, there is not very much disagreement in the committee. Nevertheless, there may be reason to be aware that we should be a little careful about challenging the autonomy of the university and higher education sectors. In this case, we now have the power to oversee the systematic quality work of the institutions for the whole course of education. The Committee has stated in its opinion that we want universities and colleges to be properly involved in the content and description of the concept of quality work. It is important that supervision is carried out in accordance with foreseeable criteria with respect to the institution's seaworthiness and responsibilities. Politically, the Committee has not said anything about what we mean by quality in higher education. That is why – at least for me – it becomes a little unclear what these predictable criteria should be. The same applies to accreditation. Here, NOCUT should also be in order to be a last chance to ensure the quality of a study. The Ministry considers that ‘comparison’ is a good method of supervision. Introducing national delecations into individual subjects or subjects contributes to the use of comparison as a method. We are familiar with this from today’s primary school, where national tests are used for ranking — at least in the media — sail if the tests are not designed for this purpose. It is therefore very important that the samples are limited and arranged in narrow areas. We read that the environments that have carried out national tests in the accounting and auditing and the bachelor’s degree in nursing are very satisfied and have asked for delex examinations in these two studies in 2016 and 2017. The centre party is in favour of using national tests as a measure to increase the quality of the university and higher education sector right now, but we reserve the right to see how this develops. Being able to ask for these national tests sail seems to be a much better idea than being imposed on them. Hearing replies also show that there is some strong opposition to the introduction of such national tests and one is afraid of threatening academic freedom. It is therefore important for the Committee and the State Council to bear this in mind. It is very important that academic freedom is not threatened, and that education is adapted to the examination form. That is why we are also very critical that fees can be imposed unless such delectuaries are introduced. The centre batch also considers that such national samples may be used only to a limited extent. We believe it would be good if the tests could run between subject and subject, and that there could be a minimum of such tests per year. We also want the timing of these tests to be announced at the start of the study, so that they can be included in the institutions' syllabus – this because we cannot have it as it is now, that students are in practice or on excursions when national tests in mathematics are to be held. I have received feedback that this has happened. The students have been told in March that they will be tried in fractional terms in May, in the middle of the course of other exams, and when parts of the students are on natural science courses elsewhere in the country. So we can't have it if these national tests are so important. So, for accreditation. It's important that we remind ourselves of the university's right to accredit studies seagoing. At the same time, questions arise as there is a merger reform in place in which Norway, in the future, will have at the bottom of a handful of public colleges again, while the rest are universities. It is therefore very important that the right of universities to sealake crediting does not lead to stricter requirements for remaining colleges, such as: teacher training requirements other than those of old colleges for teacher training, where these are sea-lake-credited as part of a new merged university. It should not be the case that the higher education studies must be subject to a NOCUT approval, while the same requirements are not imposed on the merged universities. Then it is probably more than I know that there are bombs working with application letters for the accreditation of new teacher masters. This is done without having any regulations or guidelines. It suggests that the processes are moving very fast now. In this way, it may be good that the NOCUT signals that all teachers, including those established by the institutions, will be subject to supervision rather quickly after the studies have started. I started by warning you that we can get a single-minded university and higher education sector, especially for professional education. I think we should be aware of that. Everyone thinks quality is important, but it's hard for us to say what's right and good quality. That institutions are different, have different practices and different approaches, gives us a diversity that can drive society forward and give us new ways of looking at it. It can't be a goal for everyone in all schools, universities and colleges to learn the same thing at the same time and in the same way. If we think that's quality, we're in the opinion of the Center Party on the wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1057	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for having done a good job of getting rid of us through this matter. So I'm going to refer to the Aasen's posts, which I think were very well presented to the dilemmas surrounding delecterms. The background to the need for delec­tionary examinations is the control of increasing the quality of the education concerned. At the same time, we must not underestimate the counter-representations that have come against the delection exams; we must take them seriously. It is primarily that academic freedom is threatened by these standardised examinations, and not least that education is to be adapted to the form of examination rather than to the way in which it is to be filled. Our reason for going into the delectionary exams, however, is a desire to get good education and get the quality of the education where we want it. Take teacher training as an example: if we can trust that the teachers who have completed the education have the skills that society needs, it must, on the other hand, lead us to cut down on testing and bureaucracy in school. That's why it's an independent point that we have pressure on the quality of education. I think it is important what has been done with regard to new framework plans. It is clarified that delecal examinations should only be used to a limited extent, in subjects managed by the framework plan, and not least that the importance of the pilot projects – on which we have so far received good feedback – is given. You have to take over the experience that has been gained in this way. It is important to stress that, of course, professional environments need to have a major impact on the development and conduct of these delec­tionary examinations. That's after all those who know this best and where the shoe prints the most. We have asked the government to inform the Storting about the experience after 2017 when these pilot projects have been completed. It makes sure that this is something that the government is following. We don't run delecums just to run delecums, that's something that needs to be filled all the way to make sure that we achieve what we want. I would like to comment on this with a time of service for fellows, because I think that is also a difficult matter. The Government has proposed changes in the calculation of the service time. The background is that the grant holders are more relevant to post-secondary exposures. At the same time, we believe that we must take seriously the concerns that have come from the sector, not least from the Research Federation. They believe that the temporaryity will increase by such a change and contribute to strengthening the temporaryity problem already in this sector. A majority is in favour of this change, but I would ask the Council of State to follow this very closely. Because even if you have a majority behind you today in the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, we see a common intention in the whole Biggest in terms of the desire to reduce the temporaryity. We know that this is a sector that has worn out its temporaryity over time and has not been able to cope with it. If we're to have the knowledge society we're talking about and do the transformations that our society needs to undergo, we need to have a strong and good UH sector. We have to attract the best and most attractive researchers. Then we have to do something about the challenge that the temporaryity is today, and has been for a long time. It is a formidable challenge that the Council of State is facing. I am far from sure that this will contribute positively in this way, but I insist that you follow closely, and that you may be able to reverse if you see that this is going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1072	As several other speakers have pointed out, there is a lot of consensus in this proposition. I will not tire the assembly by going through everything, but it is good to say that much of the government has presented here, has SV's support. There are two things I would like briefly to pay little attention. One is the question of calculating the duration of service for fellows. There, the hearing shows that claims are opposed to claims related to how this will turn out. We have chosen to refer to the concerns that have arisen, including: by the Association of Researchers and the Union. They say they directly disagree with the assessment of what kind of consequences this will have for temporaryity. The government says that this will be a positive step in the fight against temporaryity, that at least it does not lead to increased temporaryity, while the Union, on its side, fears that the consequences of the change in rules will be that there will be increased access to recruiting researchers in various temporary posts. It's a major challenge for us to do something about the widespread temporaryity of the UH sector. The Council of State and I were in a debate with a number of younger researchers last week, who are deeply concerned about this, and who place great emphasis on the responsibility that politicians have to make it possible to combine a research career with a certain predictability, which many people lack today. We simply miss many research talents in Norway today because the temporaryity is so high. At least we risk not getting the best out of many of our talents. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow this very closely and not add prestige to the solution proposed here, if it should prove that it does not contribute in the direction described by the government in the proposition. The second issue there has been some controversy is this with national delectionary examinations in some subjects or subjects. I can see the arguments for some stronger governance tools for national authorities towards the sector, and we need to closely monitor how this turns out. We also see that there have been some positive experiences. However, we are critical of a general basis, and it is linked to a number of the objections raised in the debate, in particular the fear of a greater degree of standardisation in a sector where there are also very many positive aspects of the freedom of institutions to develop their professions in different directions. We're positive to a high degree of autonomy. We are afraid that what is being mapped will take precedence over the type of competence and skills that cannot be tested in a standardised way. It is the classic challenge of widespread use of this type of test. In any case, we believe that national tests and partial examinations should only be used to a limited extent, and that they should therefore run between different subjects and subjects and have a clear limitation on scope per year. It will be of great importance for the Ministry to follow closely in order to avoid this leading to a uniformisation of education and training. We also think it is important that the timing of the tests be notified in good time, so that the institutions can fit the tests into their syllabus.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1085	I Prop. 81 L for 2015–2016 encourages the government to propose changes to the Law on Higher Education. The government wants to facilitate NOCUT’s targeted and thematic supervision of how institutions operate in the field of quality development. NOKUT should look at how educational institutions follow up findings revealed in quality work and whether work actually leads to better quality of study provision. The purpose of the amendment is not to extend the powers of NOKUT or to restrict the academic freedom of educational institutions. What I want to clarify in the law is that NOKUT should monitor that the follow-up quality work actually leads to better quality of education. I agree with the Committee that good involvement of educational institutions is important in the operation of NOCUT's monitoring of quality work, so that there is a unified understanding of quality work and that supervision is carried out in accordance with foreseeable criteria. The Government proposes that it can be determined by regulation that doctoral training should not be regarded as a period of service under the Civil Service Act. This will make it easier for scholarship holders to get a job at universities and colleges after finishing doctoral education. Today, time is used for personal doctoral training as a duty period under the Civil Service Act. Under the same law, temporary staff with more than four years' service are so called strongly protected against dismissal. In practice, universities and colleges have to push promising young candidates away, unless they have a firm position to offer. For many graduates it is attractive to get short exposure right after education if the option is not to get anything. Today's rules prevent it. There is too much temporaryity in the sector, and the government is trying to reduce it. However, this proposal will, in our opinion, neither contribute to increased or reduced temporaryity, but former fellows will have the opportunity to compete for short-term temporary positions at their own institution. This will increase predictability for all scholarship holders, and they will be able to count on job vacancies being advertised, so that everyone can compete for them. So it has to be added, as several have pointed out, that if it turns out that our assessment is completely wrong, that this leads to the exact opposite, we obviously have to reconsider it, but this is based on our assessment. The Government also proposes a basis for introducing the national delectionary examination into certain subjects and subjects. I believe that national delectuaries will be a valuable contribution to improving the quality of the university and higher education sectors. Information from national delecal examinations shall allow institutions to compare their studies with those from other institutions and will provide the professional communities with the opportunity to share experience and further develop their education. Furthermore, national delectuaries will be able to contribute to building trust in society because knowledge is measured in a consistent way at all institutions. However, in order for national delectuaries to function properly, they must be firmly anchored in the professional environments. Professional environments must contribute to all aspects of the process, from the choice of theme and the design of tasks via censorship to the follow-up of results and the implementation of any development measures. Close cooperation with the professional communities will ensure that the autonomy of the institutions is safeguarded and that the national delec­tionary examination is relevant and can be used to further develop the quality of the study services. Hearing replies show resistance to the national delecal sample. But I particularly remember the experience from the professional environments in the Bachelor's degree in Accounting and Audit and Bachelor's in Nursing, which is so positive that the professional environments have asked NOCUT to assist them in carrying out the national delecture in the two studies also in 2016 and 2017. This tells me that national delectuary is a system that is worth building on to further develop the quality of higher education. In the field of teacher training, the possibility study of the delec­tionary degree in mathematics has been carried out in two rounds. The results of the harvest partial exam were good and were also consistent between national and local examination results, giving confidence in the institutions and the way in which they score. We have just received insight into the fact that the results of the spring delecals are alarmingly poor. It is premature to say something about the reasons for this and whether the results are consistent with the results of the local examination. NOW the results will be analysed, which will help teachers to develop a national standard in order to assess the students. It is currently a pilot project and an opportunity study. I have certainly taken note of the Committee's desire for restraint in the use of the national delec­tionary exam in study offers that are not guided by the framework plan. Again, I focus on good processes and the involvement of the professional community. I have also noticed that there is great support for the idea of a diploma and character portal, and that Stortinget stresses the need for a good privacy attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1115	During this debate, temporaryity is mentioned, of course, because we adopt a proposal that is likely, perhaps, to affect it – positive or negative, we will see that. My question is as follows: Under the Council of State, Røe Isaksen has increased the temporaryity in the sector. What's he going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1120	First of all, I want to repeat what there is a broad consensus on the Storting, namely that the temporaryity is too high. The fact that the temporary period has fallen for a period suggests that there is no need for a temporary period indicates that institutions are able to do good work with more fixed-term jobs, however, less temporary ones. Then we still have the previous government put in place, by saying in the letters of assignment that the temporaryity is going down. We also have the opportunity to impose high-proportion institutions, where, for example: Go up, get it down. My assessment is that there are currently sufficient instruments. But then there's, as the representative is inside, and as many have been inside, now a round of the law itself for the sector, it's out for consultation. There may be regulatory changes as a result, which could also have consequences for temporaryity in the university and higher education sectors, but it is too early to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1130	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1146	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1153	First, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and as the rapporteur, I am very pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on the proposals in this legislative proposal. It is gratifying that all parties support the same rights as students in the UH sector for post school students. In the case, there is a proposal from the Central Party, on which they are, moreover, on their own. The proposal is to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal that the Vocational Diploma should be defined as a qualification for vocational education. All parties demonstrate in a joint note that they are aware that several hearing bodies in the case wish to legislate on the use of the VCR. An overall committee also says that they look forward to the announced major report on the vocational schools, where questions of qualification will be considered. Vocational education is the highest level of vocational education, and an overall committee welcomes the fact that the government, in this case, further aligns the Law on vocational education with the Law on Higher Education and provides for the same rights as students at universities and higher education institutions. The Committee supports the various legislative proposals, which will provide predictability for the post-secondary and post-secondary students in the range of fields. Among other things, post-secondary students are given a statutory right to a diploma upon completion of vocational education. Students who have not completed vocational education but who have taken some subjects may receive a letter of formal qualifications e.g. as evidence of the training and may, on a later occasion, be based on the training. The Law of Vocational Education is clarified in order to be more consistent with the provisions of the UH Act relating to the examination and censorship of the vocational school students. And a national complaint body for vocational education is established – it is also in line with the UH Act. Exclusion and expulsion from post-secondary schools are specified in the provisions of the Fachscholegesetz. This will make it easier for post-secondary students and others to have clear and predictable rules on when a post-secondary school can expel or exclude a student. The Committee considers it important to ensure the rights and security of vulnerable groups and therefore supports the implementation of the assessment of fitness of students taking vocational education in areas affecting patients, children, students and other vulnerable groups. Police certification is required for education where students can come into contact with minors and other vulnerable groups. The Committee stresses that the police attestation applies only to training courses where such contact is provided as part of clinical education or practical training. Consideration shall be given to the participation of specialised schools in the diploma and character portal proposed for universities and higher education institutions or to the establishment of a similar system for vocational schools. The Committee feels that this will strengthen efforts to prevent the falsification of diplomas and qualifications, and also underlines the importance of data protection. A system of recognition shall be established for foreign vocational training. Such an authorisation system will be an important measure for a more efficient and dynamic training and labour market. The Committee emphasises the importance of trust and quality in education at all levels and therefore supports the government in its ability to assess foreign vocational training. The Committee also agrees that all the proposals will strengthen the vocational school students and the school team. Unfortunately, the vocational school is a relatively unknown educational offer, and the Progress Party is pleased that, as a result of the presentation of the Vocational School — an attractive choice of education and in the process of developing new policies for the vocational schools, more debate and attention to the vocational schools have been raised, which help to make the school more familiar. There is a need for a diversity of competences, and the Progress Party is very pleased that the government is proposing these changes in legislation in the field of vocational education, and looks forward to further work on the vocational education message, where we both expect the government to take care of the peculiarities of the vocational schools, and to facilitate smooth and flexible transitions between vocational education and university and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1183	Vocational schools are an invaluable part of the Norwegian education system. It has been since the opening of the Royal Norwegian Mountain Seminar in 1757 as one of the first educational institutions in Norway. The mountain seminar gave important knowledge to the mining industries in Kongsberg and the rest of the country. Today, vocational schools throughout Norway are training candidates who are very much in demand in their working life. It is precisely this close link to working life that is the greatest strength of vocational schools – a quality we need to ensure that we take care of when, as politicians, we need to strengthen the vocational schools and make it possible for even more people to choose vocational education in the future. Following the presentation of its very solid NOU, Fagskolen – an attractive choice of education, in 2014, the Minister of Knowledge was on the job quickly. He did not want to comment on any of the proposals, but stated that 2015 was going to be the academic year. Since we've heard that a little bit. Afterwards, 2016 was going to be the big year for the colleges. Now we finally got a case to deal with here in Stortinget, and that's good. We support all the proposals that are being presented today. But Prop. 95 L does not address any of the major, important and more controversial questions we face in the future. So we're still waiting for the big deal about our colleges. There is a message for the autumn, and we really look forward to it. Despite the fact that the Council of State has chosen to leave the difficult issues behind, some of them are mentioned by the committee in the vote. In that case, I refer specifically to the question of whether the vocational education should give a pay-out in the form of study credits or post-school credits, i.e. how to measure vocational school education. There are many people here who believe a lot, and in the Workers' Party we are concerned that the matter is being treated well and widely. We therefore support the idea that this discussion and the use of the name Vocal Diplomas should be thoroughly investigated in the forthcoming Storing Message. As the rapporteur said, the Central Party is now promoting a proposal to legislate for this, while looking forward to an assessment of the matter. I don't know what they really mean, but I'm sure we'll get an explanation for that in the course of the debate, and then also whether they actually believe that everything and everyone who today refers to themselves as a vocational school and a vocational school education is going to give them their study credits. After the report of the Primary Committee, the debate on credits or credits has grown to be one of the major issues of vocational schools. It is as good, but as important as what the points are to be called, the aim of the Workers' Party is to make it much easier to switch between education and training. It is necessary to provide better opportunities for transitions between vocational education and higher education, for post-secondary students to have their applications assessed and adapted to other relevant education and, of course, for previous, relevant post-secondary education in university or higher education. We know that working life has a great need for graduate students with the practical and more work-related perspectives they have with them from school. This is knowledge and experience that could also be an enrichment if graduate students choose to take a more academically oriented education afterwards. We know that both students and engineering organisations such as NITO calls for more training practices to enhance quality. Providing graduates with better transition opportunities is in no way a substitute for such a requirement. But this underlines the value of combining technical vocational education with an engineering degree. Even today, it is fully possible for universities and colleges to process applications for admission to vocational education, but they may not. At this point, there is no need for a separate message for the State Council to act. Here, a good first step will be that the Minister of Knowledge gives a clear signal to the UH sector that applications for vocational education are to be assessed in the relevant training courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1206	The field of vocational education is an important and priority field for this government. In the wake of the Primary Committee’s investigation, NOU 2014: 14 Professional School — an attractive choice of education — there have been a number of debate meetings, and many have also delivered recordings to the proposition we are discussing. It's like our Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Anniken Hauglie, said in a recent meeting: The trade school is a rough diamond in our school system. I agree. That is why I am also pleased with the broad and involved process of the Minister of Knowledge and the Department to develop this school team. Over 40 pst. of our students at universities and colleges are struggling with the conduct of their studies. Both students and the labour force ask questions about relevance and dimensioning for many of our courses. At the same time, we have a situation in which businesses demand skilled workers. It is claimed that our country will lack between 120 000 and 130 000 skilled workers as we approach 2030. Over the last 20–30 years, the increase in students in the UH sector has been high. The question now is whether time is not overdue to rethink and focus significantly more on developing the higher vocational education path as a clear and highly professional alternative. In this case, it means, in my opinion, that the vocational education sector needs to be given a stronger and clearer profile as higher-level vocational education, rather than as a continuation of secondary education, as many seem to believe today. This also means that the focus on the quality of these courses needs to be ensured. This means that post-secondary students must have the same student rights as other students. For young people who are going to get an education to live off and thrive on, it means a lot to be treated in the same way as other young people under education. That is why I am pleased that, through the amendments to the law that are to be adopted today, we strengthen the rights of the vocational school students on several points. It will create better predictability for both the post-secondary students, the post-secondary schools and the vocational school owners. Rights relating to the conduct of examinations, diploma or character portals, the right of appeal and the establishment of a national appeal body are important. The same is the scheme proposed to give NOKUT the opportunity to accept foreign vocational education. In particular, it is important that the decisions taken today provide legal support for regulating access to the market as a specialised school. Only specialised schools with NOCUT approval shall be able to place themselves on the market as specialised schools. It is important to ensure the quality of education provision. However, it is only when we receive the vocational school report for the autumn that the vocational schools really come to the searchlight and we are given the opportunity to develop an even stronger higher level of vocational education. This government has made a strong commitment to careerlifts in high school, including: record increases in apprenticeship grants and with better skills enhancement opportunities for vocational teachers. Both parts have been strongly requested. From the day one, the government has prioritised the professions and put them on the agenda. That is why I look forward with great anticipation to the continuation, where future careers at the upper secondary school levels will be shaped. There is a wide scope for this sector, and it requires willful and wise decisions to exploit it. I have great confidence that our Minister of Knowledge sees that if young people with ambitions are to choose a profession in the future, the vocational education sector must be strengthened and further developed. The student's work and competence must be recognised and valued in a way that both builds professional pride and provides opportunities for further career development in a predictable and good way. Designation of grades and questions about credits versus post-secondary school credits will be important elements in the processing of the forthcoming gross domestic product message. Many of us are looking forward to it. The decisions we are making today lead the vocational school sector a good step forward and will be of great benefit and pleasure to the vocational school students and their student rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1229	The trade school is, as I see it, an underrated and undercommunicated school battle. Vocational schools are extremely important, and they contribute valuable skills, both in demand and in dependence on the labour market. The NOU presented in December 2014 by the Primary Committee on the subject of the vocational education sector presents a rather interesting diagnosis in this sector, namely that the patient is up-to-date, but still not completely healthy. I choose to be optimistic on the patient's behalf, and I think that's a good reason. I believe that the vocational school sector represents an undissolved potential, but I feel that the awareness of this sector has grown in recent years. I think there is a need to take some action, and I look forward to the announced announcement of the vocational schools, which will be presented in the autumn. Then Stortinget gets a good opportunity to do a thorough job with this sector, and it's a job that I think there's a lot of us looking forward to. Already now the government has put forward a proposition with proposed amendments to the law on vocational education, and here it is very good. It's great that both the government and a comprehensive education committee at the Stortinget want to further align the law on vocational education with the law on higher education and to grant vocational education students equal rights to the students at universities and colleges. I think that student rights are just one of several things that need to be done to raise the reputation and attractiveness of the college. There is no reason for students who opt for a vocational education to have lower rights than students who choose to study at a university or at a university. So this adaptation to the law of higher education doesn't mean that the colleges are going to be more like universities and colleges, because there's just the inequality that makes them valuable. But even if they're not going to be the same, it's an important point for me and for the Christian People's Party that they're going to be equivalent. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal that post-secondary school students have a statutory right to a diploma upon completion of education. We will return to the question of the denomination when the Storing Message is presented later this year. It is a unanimous committee that seems positive that the government will consider integrating the subject schools into the diploma and character portal that has been proposed for universities and colleges and that we have talked about earlier today in the debate. It is also a unanimous committee that supports students in vocational schools having equivalent rights to those enjoyed by students under the law of higher education and that post-secondary education students now have a statutory right to complain of formal errors in their examinations. And to make a long story short on a nice summer day, there is a broad consensus in the committee and broad support for the proposals made by the government in the proposition. The Christian People's Party will not support the proposal of the Central Party that the Vocational Diplomas be defined as degrees. We believe that, as I said, we will be able to come back to this when the big message is presented in the autumn. It's a work I look forward to catching up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1250	It is good that the government finally presents something about the subject schools. We support the amendments proposed for the benefit of post-secondary education in the proposal. The government is trying to make the outside world think that they're betting in colleges by writing notes that they're betting in colleges. It is a little difficult to see this initiative, all the time it is now over two years since the NOU, the trade school – an attractive choice of education – was presented. As the representative Sønsterud also said, it was only 2015 that was the year of the vocational schools, according to the government, but it was quiet about the vocational schools throughout that year. Then 2016 was to be the year of the vocational schools. It seems quite quiet this year, too, but it is great that these changes to the law that strengthen the position of vocational education came in the spring. Then we've heard that it announced the big news about the colleges being submitted until the fall, i.e. in October, probably. The processing of that message will not be completed until the new year, i.e. in 2017. I don't call that a bet. When you look at everything the other government has wanted to do in higher education, it's very clear that it's not the vocational schools that have been the government's strongest bet area. But we're glad the law changes are coming. We are also pleased that both the representative Bente Thorsen of the Progress Party and the representative Kent Gudmundsen of the Right have already indicated that they want the post-school students to end up with the study credits instead of the non-profit post-school credits given today. That's good, and we expect this to be something that comes in the announced morning message for the autumn. However, the centre party has chosen to propose that we want the Vocational Diploma to be defined as a degree title for higher vocational education now when we are actually amending the vocational school law, so that we do not wait another year for this and let another coal with vocational school students go out with vocational school credits. The representative Sønsterud asked what we meant by looking forward to a review. We say that you would like to look forward to a review, but we also believe that all of the vocational education that has been approved by NOKUT should have this designation. I'd like to remind you that even art colleges give credits, not just engineering or nursing. If we're going to recognise the colleges, we're going to have to recognise them all, and that's what the Center Party has to say today. We think it is sad that no one could think of voting subsidiaryly for our proposal. We also support the proposals that have been promoted in the proposal, and I am addressing our own proposal in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1265	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien then addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1268	I have a great deal of understanding that the Right wants to take credit for too much of the good that has happened to the professions, and it's clear that when the party has the Council of State, they will of course have a lot of credit too, but I will make a little correction, because it was talking about apprentice grants here, which had a historical increase. This is true, but it is not the right and the government's sole profit, too much – if not the majority – of the increase in apprenticeship grants that has taken place is a result of the budgetary comparisons made with the Left and Christian People's Party. I just needed to make it clear that there are several people who have agreed on the promise that has been made in the professional fields. So to the colleges, which I think many have said good words about. I think – which probably many others have also been faced with – that one of the challenges for the vocational schools is that they are not known enough. There are not enough people who know about the good offer and the good education that you can get through the colleges. What makes this different from academic education is exactly that correction, and that's exactly what's being asked for in the workplace. That's what the students go there want, and that's why they choose that education. That's what we have to focus on in the future as well, to go to college is going to be something other than going to a university. That doesn't mean we're not going to have a good discussion and debate about how we can make those things work better together, but it's just the peculiarity that's so good with the colleges, and we have to make sure that we don't take away the best of the good offer that the colleges are. Like all other parties, we in the Left also look forward to getting this big message for the autumn. When we get a case about the colleges now, it's clear that it's tempting to go into the things we're going to discuss for the autumn, but I don't want to pre-shoot it, because at least we're going to have a thorough process in the left on it. I know that there are many of us who have an opinion about the subject schools. There are many of us who want to contribute to the work on how we can develop the vocational schools even more, and how we can make them an even more attractive offer. So if the government has not felt the pressure before, he must at least do it after this debate, because we have very great expectations of the big news coming to the harvest. It concerns the parties, but not least the committee, who look forward to working on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1277	I have a few brief comments on the content of this proposition, which we agree with and will support. I want to join those who say that it was good that this proposition came, but it is also very good that there is going to be a new matter about the colleges later, because we need a much broader review than what we have received in this proposition, and we have also waited a long time for a necessary debate on the place of the vocational school in the Norwegian education system. It is also a strong commitment in the Committee and in the Stortinget to a stronger commitment to the vocational school. Nevertheless, in this proposition, there are some positive actions that we wholeheartedly support: the issue of granting vocational school students the same rights as students at universities and colleges, the legal framework for establishing national complaints and the establishment of a temporary system for the recognition of foreign vocational training. All of that is positive, and with that we're getting cleared up in some of the problems that the Grund committee pointed out. With regard to this with the statutory right to a diploma and evidence of education, SV is very concerned that we should get to it. When we do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party, it is because we note that there are many important hearing bodies and actors in the sector who believe that the Vocational Diploma should be the denomination here, but since the government has announced a short notice and there is a need to go through how we can also get a denomination that we are sure will be working for the future, we are content to go into the remarks that stress that the Council of State must look at this and come back to it in the communication. That is why we are voting against the proposal of the Central Party today, but it is not because we are not initially positive about the Vocational Diploma as a term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1288	This is the second time I go to the pulpit today just after the representative Lysbakken and he has said positive things about what the government has presented. I have to admit that it makes me look a little bit, but that probably just means that the things are well anchored. We are promoting important proposals on which there is a great deal of agreement, and that is very good. It's about building stone on stone to raise the quality of the colleges, but also about getting the vocational schools' place in the education system much better than today. Professional schools have been given a slightly voiced treatment for a long time. There has been little attention around them, there has been little political attention around them, and that is what we are now changing. It's important, and that's good. The proposals follow in particular: raise the recommendations of the NOU from the Trade School Committee. We propose more detailed legal provisions on the examination, censorship, cheating, exclusion and expulsion of students. There are legislative changes that will strengthen the rights of post-secondary students and help to create a more consistent practice at vocational schools. The government also sees the need to set up a national complaint body for vocational school education, which can deal with complaints from students by decisions taken by the board of specialised schools or by local complaints. A specific treatment within a national complaint body will ensure national non-discrimination and ensure the legal certainty of the vocational school students. The proposal to strengthen the right to impose penalties in order to be able to cancel the student's results in the event of unfair behaviour, such as: cheating shall help to prevent students from taking the opportunity to cheat. Access to expel or exclude the student in the more serious cases we consider necessary to ensure a good learning environment. Furthermore, it is important to prevent graduates who are unfit for the profession from meeting the professional requirements of education. Therefore, we propose to introduce requirements to assess the fitness of students. This means that the same standards of conduct are set for students in vocational education as for students in other countries. The requirement for a police record in education is also in line with common practice in other studies. The lack of a system for assessing foreign vocational education can help to make integration into Norwegian working life more difficult for many immigrants. Therefore, the Government proposes to introduce a new system for the recognition of vocational education from abroad. It will be easier for foreign workers to get work for which they are qualified. It is also an important integration measure. Overall, legislative changes will help to strengthen quality and attractive vocational education for students, and to ensure that students are treated in a non-discriminatory way regardless of the type of institution they choose to attend. Then I notice the impatience after a graduate school report, and I also look forward to presenting it during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1313	In February, Kent Gudmundsen, the right-wing representative, played out that he wanted to be a student at the colleges. He went high on the track and even thought that everything else would be ‘academic snobbery’. At the college seminar in the Minister of Science's own department, Secretary of State Haugstad said that study credits would only cause confusion. So my question is quite simply: what does the Council of State think about the points of study in the vocational schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1318	Choosing between the representative Gudmundsen and his own State Secretary is very difficult – between bark and wood, between Rinse and Kharybdis. We haven't concluded, is the answer. And I think the representative himself had good points in his post. I have to admit that I understand why the discussion about post-secondary credits/study credits has become a highlight of the debate on the subject schools versus colleges/universities. But the most crucial thing is not the semantic term, but that we get better transitions. I am quite clear that today's system and current practice are also too poor for the transition between vocational school and higher education. I believe that regardless of what the government chooses, and regardless of what the majority of people have to choose with regard to the term. Then the transition possibilities have to be more and better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1329	We've been told that it's good that students' rights are strengthened today, but there's also another question in the public debate right now, which is about organisation. The Primary Committee made a clear recommendation on state ownership of public vocational schools. At that technical school seminar in the Ministry of Knowledge, Haugstad again signaled that the government wants a regional ownership of the vocational schools. Can the Council of State justify why he believes it is best for the vocational schools with regional ownership rather than a national one? I am asking the question now, because it is a very topical matter on the agenda at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1336	Once again, we haven't concluded. These are issues that we will come back to in the post-school message. Some of these issues may also be addressed before. What's in the government statement is that we want to move funding to the state. It has not been said that one must also move ownership to the state. There are good arguments that the vocational schools, just a working life, decentralised education, how many adult people go, and that should be close to work, should perhaps have local ownership. At the same time, there is now a majority in the Grand Duchy to move from county municipalities to regions. What is certain is that it will not be appropriate to push the vocational schools down to the municipalities. If it was not to become a state acquisition, the new regions are the most relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1345	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1350	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate on the subject of vocational schools and on better rights for the vocational school students and the school team. I know it's a long day's journey to night -- it's a long meeting and a lot of things. What made me take the floor was the representative Tingelstad Wøien, who pointed out that Bente Thorsen had been very clear that it was going to be called study credits in the college. I myself believe that I have been very clear in all respects that neither I nor the Advancement Party have concluded on what this should be called. We will assess this in the further work on the Fachschulegesetz. The most important thing for the Progress Party is that post-secondary students are given the opportunity to take education at universities and colleges. At the same time, it is very important for the Progress Party that the subject schools are cared for in the way they are today, as is the special school team they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1359	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1373	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1380	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation during its work. In this case, some legislative changes are proposed. These changes must be made in order to follow up the Committee's comments in another position, namely Innst. 285 L for 2014-2015. All the parties to the Committee have agreed to these amendments. With regard to the amendments to the Children's Act, it is not a unanimous vote by the Committee, and I would like to explain the majority's views on these issues. Families have become more diverse. We have moms, dads, moms and cousins, foster parents, foster parents and adoptive parents to mention something. Children live well with this diversity as long as there is love and security around them. Children come with an amazing ability to make people around them love them, and we adults, most of us at least, are concerned about taking care of children around us regardless of biology. The families are more diverse, but nevertheless there is something firm, and it is our desire to know who is our biological mother and father. We have no time limits for moving matters today if you are wrongly convicted as a father. Nor are children bound by deadlines in these cases. The same is not true of a man who is a legal father and who can provide information suggesting that another man may be a biological father to the child, or a third party who believes that he is the father of a child who already has a legal father. In both cases, the cases must be raised within one year after they became aware of the information that the legal hazard could be incorrect. In addition, the third party must raise a case before the child reaches the age of three. The introduction of these deadlines was made on the grounds that stability in children's lives was more important than knowing the truth about the biological origin. These are not simple decisions, and ensuring the stability and security of a child's life is important. Nevertheless, the majority today will vote to remove these time limits, because the truth is more important. It will of course be stable to believe all your life that someone is your father, who is not, but the intention of the law should not be to build up under this form of stability, a stability that may be almost based on a lie. It is easy to find examples of fathers who are suddenly told that they are not a father, of mothers who carry tough secrets, or of children who realize that something is creeping, but who do not fully understand what it is, before they become adults themselves. If you read stories in women's magazines of the type "this happened to me", or for that matter, you can see that the stories of reality are reflected in culture as well. In fact, as in the fiction, these are difficult things. There may be many reasons why the lie has been told or stories are not corrected – everything from cheating to assault, from revenge to a desire to give the child the best dad. This makes these matters extremely difficult at human level, but the legal majority nevertheless believes that we cannot allow ourselves to make legislation that can prevent the truth from coming for a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1399	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the job she has done. This change in the law on time limits in farce cases comes back to Stortinget very quickly, after it was adopted in 2013. I wonder whether this is not based on the political disagreement from the debate at the time and what we can read from the Committee's discussion, where today's position, which was at the time against a time limit, is taking a rematch. We do not want that from the Labour Party. We believe that the 2013 decision should stand. Having time-limits for bringing an action for a change concerning the hazards established by the Pater Est rule or recognition, the Workers' Party considers that the child is being cared for and provides stability. It must be the most important thing. These are mainly cases where a man who, according to the Father Est rule, is a father, has lived with the child for many years, then after a break in life, should be able to sue about change in fatherhood because he suspects that he is not a biological father. We believe that having deadlines is the best thing in such cases. It is important to stress that it is not the rights of the child affected here, it is the time limits of parents – father –. The child can always sue for a change of fatherhood. Yes, children should know their biological origin, but here too parents have an independent responsibility to contribute to the dissemination of this knowledge. Everything can't be regulated by law. Several hearing bodies support the absence of changes, and we have also chosen to listen to the Children’s Ombudsman, who believes that today’s rules are good enough to safeguard the best interests of the child. It must be the main line. So we believe that a change to Section 6 of the Children's Act will not serve the child, and we want to vote against it. In addition to that, we follow the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1418	This is not about a rematch; it is about listening to the inhabitants of this country. It is gratifying from the point of view of the Progress Party that one more time-limits for danger should be lifted. Biological association is important for the individual human beings, and we as authorities should not be involved and override it in any way. The best thing for the child is to be controlling. Having an insecure mind about its origin can be mentally challenging for the child. Not only for the children, but also for the fathers, which this proposal is about, it may be difficult to live with uncertainty over time. Yeah, it's safe for many to know with certainty, if they know, absolutely certain, but it's tough and unsafe to live with insecurity. Today's rules are there for the stability and tranquillity of the children, it's said, but here's one in the middle of meaning something that should in some way be legitimate for everyone. It's just not like that. Individuals, both children and parents, are different. Life situations change, and information and questions about origin can come at different times in life, from parents to children and from children to parents – and from others. Living with insecurity is far from the best for either the child, the fathers or the family. For this reason, the Progress Party is pleased that once again we see the individual in danger cases, and that we do what we did during the treatment of Prop. 105 L for 2012–2013, where, together with the Christian People's Party and with two voices from the Right, we went towards a reintroduction of deadlines. We take the biological origin of individuals seriously and do not want deadlines to stand in the way of knowing the truth. The doubt can divide and create insecurity in the family. So we have to do what we can to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1431	Today, when the Storting examines proposals to suspend deadlines for raising a case on changes in hazard, it is based on a recognition that knowledge of biological association is one of the pillars of life. Today we have technical possibilities to establish a relationship with nearly 100 pst. safety. If there were any doubts as to whether a father really is the biological danger, or whether a child might have another father, then the uncertainty would repel the established relationship between those who doubt. Today, a man who is a legal father can sue for fathership if he can provide information indicating that another man may be a biological father to the child. A man who believes he is the biological father of a child who already has a legal father may raise a case if he can provide information that indicates that he may be the father of the child. In both cases, a case must be raised within one year after they became aware of the information that the legal hazard may be incorrect. In addition, the person who will demonstrate his biological hazard must raise a case before the child reaches the age of three. There are no deadlines for children who want to file a case for a change in hazard. There are also no deadlines for convicted fathers who want to have their case resumed. Until 2003, there were time limits in the Children’s Act to bring up a case on changes in fatherhood. The Bondevik Government took the initiative to suspend the deadlines. The justification for the current rules on time-limits, introduced by the Stoltenberg II administration, was the consideration of stability and tranquillity for the child, although an unknown specific example of the absence of time-limits that would have been problematic for children. Although the truth for many, both adults and children, will often be liberating and positive over time, it does not seem possible on a general basis to say what is best for the child in the individual case. It concerns either the outcome should be a confirmation or a confirmation of an existing legal hazard. I believe that the importance of biological association needs to be given to this, and that the deadlines in the law prevent this. The time-limits prevent men who have become fathers as a result of marriage or because they have taken on danger may bring proceedings for a change in the hazard at a later stage. The deadlines also prevent other men from demanding that they be the father of the child, after the child has reached the age of three. If the mother and the child's legal father oppose the matter, the question of who is a biological father will not be resolved. Who is the biological parent of a child is absolutely fundamental to human understanding of himself. I believe that if there is any doubt as to who is the father of a child, it would be best for the child to have this question clarified. The importance of knowledge of biological origin is so heavy here that I believe there should not be deadlines in the law that prevent these matters from being properly addressed and dealt with in the judicial system. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to abolish the time limits for dealing with hazards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1460	Yes, the child can always check. No rematch, we hear here also the council tries to tell about. We can read in the case from the previous committee session what the argument was there. I read the same arguments from the articles of the Council of State. Does the Council of State mean that the last government just invented it, while the Council of State is a listener?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1465	As the representative Mandt refers to, a change was made in 2013 by the previous government. Members of the Christian People's Party then sent a letter to the Council of State – it was the previous Council of State – who answered a question as to whether there had been any knowledge of whether there were children in these cases who had been harmed. The council had no knowledge of that. This has been important for the bourgeois parties to change. There were also comments on the previous case in 2013, but it has been important for us to come up with the biological principle, that everyone has the right to know their biological origin, and that this is more important than having a deadline in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1472	Then I wonder how the Council of State weighs the relationship between parental protection and child protection in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1477	Then I just have to say that I don't fully understand how parental protection and child protection come into these matters, because it's rarely child protection comes into such matters as this. What has been considered here is the biological principle, that one should be able to have knowledge of his biological origin, and that there should be no time limits in the law that prevent a matter from being properly addressed and dealt with in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1483	It might be a little unclear when I say parental protection and child protection, so it's the weight between the best child and the best I've ever wondered about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1488	Then I want to refer to the Children's Convention, which says that all children have the right to know their origin. Knowing whether their biological origin is important both for the children and for the parents, and I think it is so heavy that there should be no deadlines in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1493	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1496	I would like briefly to do something for the view of the Centre Party in this matter. We're going to support the Workers' Party and we're going to vote against this amendment. We're on the line that we were when we were in government. In this case, I thought the three-year rule might be more problematic than the one-year rule, but we stress that the children's environment recommends the current system, they think it's good for the children. We focus on the fact that the last change was not based on party politics, but on what Stortinget recommended in a NOU. We note that the government writes that both the Children's Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights are held in both the current situation and law, and what is proposed by the government. On this basis, the Central Party will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1519	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1526	First of all, thank you for your good work in the committee. Having children is a great pleasure, and getting two or more at once must be a double or triple joy, depending on how many people come in at once. But some people not only experience it as joyous, but sometimes also as challenging in different ways. That parents can exercise parental roles in a good and loving way is very important, either one has one or more children, while one thinks that for those who have more children at the same time, it is an extra big stress with birth and childbirth. So there are situations with only one child that can be equally challenging. This depends on pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth. It's just as different whether one gives birth to one child or more children at a time. The security network in society must also work for this group, in line with others. Most families do well to try to manage themselves even with different challenges. But sometimes it butts against, and neither parents nor other close family can reach out for one to have the best possible. We have good arrangements that apply to everyone who gives birth. The Health and Welfare Act is the governing body for necessary health care. The health and care services in the municipality shall cooperate with family members who need it. I myself, as a nurse, have contributed to helping multiple parents, both day and night, to relieve and help for a period of time to parents, and then especially mother, can get in with sleep. As a tenant at home, there were extra people who volunteered for me when it was about contributing to these families. Many had good competence from their own experience with infants, and there are former child nurses who are now working in this service. The challenge is that the law is used differently around municipalities. This has to be a change on. Welfare leave, parental leave, cash support and child benefit are schemes that are extended by multiple births. Reduced working time and the right to breast-feeding are other good ones to benefit from when you return to work. Parental measures such as Home-Start are another example of measures that can also help multiple families to resemble parents with one child. In 2015, Home-Start 33 departments in Norway and 43 coordinators were added to municipalities or voluntary organisations. I have no doubt that multiple families can face challenges more often than others. But it also applies to several families. It's important, therefore, that one has no more focus on this group than others that can have the same size, if not larger, challenges than just these. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the proposal to: ‘establish a multi-lingual-family life-care survey, single with several children of child-bearing age, families with children with severe illnesses or disabilities, families with severe diseases in their parents, and others with special needs for care’.» This will be fairer and, hopefully, will lead to a reduction in the amount of the debt involved. And then we'll see what this living conditions mapping says, and maybe work out from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1555	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the job. There was a good deal of discussion in the committee. It is an important proposal from the SV to address, and it affects many families when we see that there are about 1 000 multiple births per year. For some, these won't be the big challenges, and everyday life can go smoothly. For others, there will be a tiring time that is almost impossible to cope with. They need more help and support than families with one newborn child. In order to ensure a stable framework for these families and a good offer of help, it is important to have measures, and the Workers' Party points out that good leave arrangements, so that one can be longer at home, would like both parents to be at home at the same time, adequate childcare facilities, a time-share system or the use of family weeks, could be measures that can help to cope with everyday life. A health sister service with competence and knowledge of the nature of the services offered, which may be aware of problems and take early action, is also important. Some people have to be responsible for coordinating the offers, so that a tired family doesn't have to find out for themselves, but gets the offer they need, when they need it. Low-threshold prevention services are absolutely the best. There are many municipalities, on which the representative Reiertsen was inside, offering the families Home-Start or other similar arrangements, and that's good! But for many families, that's not enough. They often need longer and closer follow-up. Some municipalities have family vicars coming to, and feedback from families who have been helped by a family vicar is positive. There are more families than those who have more than one child, who are struggling to get their everyday lives to jump. Children with severe illness and severe care needs or children who need extra follow-up for some reason may also make their days difficult for many newly-baked families. Combining work and family can be a challenge for these families as well. Setting up groups against each other based on who has the worst, we don't want to. Therefore, targeted measures must be available to those families who need them, when they need them, and that is why we want to look at more than just multiple families. For this reason, it is good that a Joint Committee should promote a proposal for a life-cycle survey of families with multiple children of child-bearing age, families with serious illness of parents and others with special needs for care. We don't know much about how these things work, and what gives the most effect. Probably there is a combination of what SV promotes, what the Workers' Party believes is right, and what the Christian People's Party has said in its comments, which is the way forward. Families need different offers and different time perspectives. The representative proposal and the proposals that are on the table today contain many elements of which it is difficult to see the economic consequences, but that does not mean that the proposals are not good or worth looking at further. The working party thought that much of this would come in the family message, and we wonder why this was not taken up there, when there is a family message that should embrace widely and look at how the everyday life of families with children should go together. But now we're going to have to wait for what's going on with the living conditions survey and further treatment here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1581	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Karin Andersen for this representative proposal, which contains several good proposals. There are not so many who have more children at the same time, but for those who do, it is essential that they feel that the government is setting up and providing the support the family, the child and the parents need. For our part, we think it's obvious that having two or more children at the same time is a bigger challenge than having one child, although of course there are great variations. In the nomination, we point out that researchers from the Swedish Institute of Public Health and the University of Oslo have shown that twin mothers have 77 pst. greater risk of depression five years after birth than other mothers. The researchers suggest that twin mothers do not initially have worse mental health, but that depression is a consequence of stress, and that there is reason to assume that twin mothers become more tired than other mothers. Twin and multiple births in themselves involve a strain – with more children at the same time, and in addition, twins may have lower birth weights, premature births or complications such as brain bleeds and breathing difficulties. In the light of the findings, researchers conclude that longer leave for twin parents could be an appropriate measure. The Christian People's Party believes that proposals for extended parental leave for twin parents, so that both can be at home with the children for the first time, the proposals of the proposers to extend the parental leave scheme for the very few families who have three or more children in the case of multiple births, so that both parents can be at home at the same time throughout the period of leave, the proposal to amend the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on maternity leave to give entitlement to two weeks per child born, and the proposal for a statutory right to family weeks for families with special care challenges, such as: the same with twins, vibration families, families with children who have a serious illness or disability, or families where there is a serious illness in their parents, are very good and timely proposals that should be considered. Christian People's Party today asks that especially SV's proposal no. 1 and No 3 is carefully assessed and therefore supports proposals to this effect in the House today. As far as the proposal on family vicars is concerned, it is something that I experience as a natural input that I want to include in the program work of the Christian People's Party. As regards SV's proposal No. 2, there is something Christian People's Party today is not prepared to decide, but the proposal is definitely something we should come back to. The question is, who pays the bill? It is not entirely unthinkable that this is something that the public should take responsibility for. I don't think that bill is going to be very big, but in that case this will be something we can come back to in the budget for the autumn, or that you can look at that scheme when the living conditions survey we are asking the government to undertake gives us answers to what measures can be improved. The centre party also has a proposal in the room today, asking the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner in the light of the living conditions survey, with an overview of the aid schemes that multi-lingual families can use today and an assessment of the various measures that can improve the situation of these families. I recommend that the Christian People's Party Group support this proposal. Help from the public in additional demanding and vulnerable periods is important prevention measures. This is about giving parents profits to be good caregivers for the children. It is important that this assistance is available, that it is well combined, and that it is easily accessible, so that already pressured families do not have to struggle to find help too. The Christian People's Party also supports what is proposed in the resolution to ask the government to launch a life-linked survey of multiple families, single with children of child-bearing age, families with children who have severe illness or disabilities, families who have severe diseases in their parents, and others with special needs. We meet the government's work on this and look forward to an appropriate return of the government to the Stortinget with what they have found out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1604	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1607	I refer to the proposals we have made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1612	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1615	Life is turned on your head when you have a child. It's noticed to everyone, I think, but some families don't manage to get in completely again. Then I think especially of those who come home with a child who needs demanding follow-up and care, or those who experience having twins, twins or even actually twins – more children at once. Some of these families need both support and help, so that they get their heads over the water and can give their children a safe and good start in life. In earlier times, it was the closest family that put up and bisto in such a situation. In the 1950s and 1960s, it was not so common for a mother to be out of work. The role of the housewife meant a lot of practical work and care for both the elderly and the younger generation. Today, women and men are much more equal, both mother and father are largely active, and it is also the grandmothers. Fortunately, in a new social structure, we have put in place good welfare schemes with parental leave for both mother and father, and the arrangements we have in our country are very many who envy us. I was at a meeting in New York in connection with the UN General Assembly where our Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, was asked about equality and parental leave in Norway. There was actually a gisp going through the hall when she told us about our good arrangements with cardboard and maternity leave. In the United States, they have almost not paid any leave at all, and in many other countries, there are only 12 to 16 weeks of leave. This matter has been briefed and given an opinion in the Labour and Social Committee. Right-wing representatives support the unanimous vote of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture and also the proposal for a living conditions monitoring. It is illustrated in the notes here that after a birth, especially after twins and multiple births, it is that twin mothers have a greater risk of depression — in fact, up to five years after they had a child — which may be related to wear and stress. Something I think could have been more clearly highlighted in the comments, it is the law and the right we actually have in the law on municipal health and care services in Norway that opens up to granting practical assistance at home. The municipality is obliged to provide practical assistance at home if a person needs it in view of the life situation of the person and family. These are health challenges, crisis situations where there is a lack of action, and prevention measures to avoid a crisis. I can refer to the municipality of Bergen, which has a good order described on the web. Their website says that they have organized parts of their practical assistance as family vicars. The service is provided to young children’s parents who especially need assistance in the event of acute illness or other unforeseen events, and also in the case of multiple births. The service used to be called housewives, and a lot of municipalities in the country had it. So it went into this with practical assistance in terms of home help and such things. According to Bergen’s website, family vicars can be granted for a limited period of time in the event of a high level of care needs related to multiple births, for example: for single-parents with twins and in the case of twin births when one of the parents is at work and the other of the parents is caring for the children. The service concerns the care of children, cooking and cleaning. I can also show my own municipality, Asker. I have examined this, and they do not have family vicars, but they provide practical assistance to families with children based on an individual assessment. If the situation is perceived as unmanageable, with a small network, young parents, too early-born children who need extra follow-up with regard to nutrition, they enter into practical services in cooperation with the family. So we have a good and flexible law, and we should use it. Maybe it's not that well-known, and then we have a responsibility to inform about the rights that actually exist. No one is the same, nor are they the families of young children. That's why you have to go into each case and see what it needs. I believe in tailor-made arrangements, they hit best, and we have the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1632	The centre party thinks it's a very important proposal the representatives of SV have made on the matter. We believe it is indisputable that families who have more children at the same time have bigger care challenges than others in general. And I have to say right away that I think it's incomprehensible what the majority write in the setting, and that is said from the speaker's chair here, where one makes a point that we don't have to distinguish between multiple births and ordinary births, that one has to evaluate this concretely in each situation, and that there are completely different things from multiple births that determine the need for extra help or special arrangements at birth. I think it's quite natural that there's bigger challenges when one gets two, three, or four kids at the same time than when one gets one. It doesn't mean that one can't have challenges and difficult relationships when one has one child, but this seems to me to be a little bit odd. The centre party has a great sense for all the proposals from SV, and I think they need to be considered in the future. I have read the family message, and I notice that these specific suggestions have not been addressed there, and that is regrettable. We are not going to vote for the SV proposals today. It is because they may have some budgetary consequences that have not been done well, so we are not ready to take a final position on them now. But expanding the period of leave, getting more flexible arrangements when parents are going back to work, having a greater chance that both can be home for the whole or part of the leave period, and being able to provide a family week seems to us to be proposals that should be further considered. We're going to vote for the two proposals of the Christian People's Party today, which is a moderated variant where one should evaluate two of the proposals. We liked that a unanimous committee has put forward proposals to launch a life-cycle study on both multiple families and other families with additional challenges. We support the recommendation from the committee. Otherwise, we thought that one could also have brought with them those who have many small children at the same time. The Central Party has made one loose proposal. Our point with this proposal is: Yes, we get a life-cycle study, but what then? We are concerned that the life-cycle study must lead to a matter for the Stortinget where the Stortinget can decide what is going on, and evaluates various measures that seemed reasonable and necessary for these families. That is the background to the proposal, and I had hoped that it could be supported by the majority in Stortinget. When it comes to family weeks, we're very much in line with SV, but we're not sure that it should be an individual right. I would like to inform you that we will make a proposal on family weeks when the Stortinget will deal with the family message on Monday. Nothing has been said about midwifery and maternity services in the municipalities here, and it should. It is also very important to give the newly-baked parents a good start, regardless of whether they have had one or more children at the same time. What's important here is to bring about a change of posture, both in society and in health services. We are very concerned about having good arrangements during pregnancy, but when the child is out, it has been very hard. Then a clear everything by itself. On average, one in six hours is in hospital after one birth. It also applies in the future. Once upon a time, an entirely different network had surrounded itself. Now the grandmothers are in work, and the housewives are made as old-fashioned. She's not old-fashioned. One may call it ‘family vicar’, but it’s actually future the way the family structure is. It's wrong that you have to go to Nav or Child Protection to get help for all the common challenges in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1656	Would the representative Toppe like to take up the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1659	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1664	The representative Kjersti Toppe then brought up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1667	Most schemes for families with children are arranged in a way that is adapted to what is most common: having one child at a time. Every year there are nearly 1 000 multiple births in Norway, and most are twin births. It is quite reasonable, in the SV's view, that these families, facing some very special challenges, meet with help and support from society that can give parents and children a good start. Today’s system does not take into account the needs of multiple families. When welfare schemes do not match the everyday life of the families, the arrangements need to be adjusted. In a normal one-child birth, the child will have a parent at home throughout the leave period. For multiples the situation is different. Here the child must share the leave with one or more siblings born at the same time. Although two or more children are born at the same time, the right to leave is not extended accordingly. After a rather short period of time, multiple families will experience fewer hands to handle than other families have. Both children and parents in multiple families need safety and relief. It goes without saying that there's a difference between having three babies and having one. SV believes that the parental leave for multiple families should be increased. Today, five more weeks are given, which parents can take out at the same time. In our view, this is too small and makes a parent stay alone in everyday life with two or more young children too early. If you do not see the need for extended leave, it should nevertheless be possible to consider some of the proposals that we are making today, for the proposals that we are promoting today do not make huge upheavals in society, but they mean enormously to the families concerned. Multiple families need stronger support than most other families, simply because the burden is so much greater. We'd like to talk about "triple joy," but we're also talking about "triple number of wake-ups". Many of the multiple families also face additional challenges because multiple births are more often born before the future. Children and parents need extra time and support. Families may be more vulnerable. Parents who get multiples can have it tough because it's hard to handle more than one child, but also because the feeling of not stretching to can be strong, especially the first year of life. And we know that research from the Institute of Public Health shows that twin mothers have a total of 77 pst. greater likelihood of depression than other mothers five years after birth. This is knowledge that deserves to be taken seriously. It is therefore positive that the Committee today wants a proper monitoring of the living conditions of these families to be carried out. But I had hoped that it was possible to gather more. SV proposes four very specific measures, which do not cost much, but which could make life for those concerned much easier. One is about giving father and mother the right to shorter working days for the first year of life. Today a mother who is breast-feeding has the right to leave. With a corresponding right for father or mother, multiple families will be able to have a safer and better everyday life. The second is to strengthen the rights of father or co-mother at birth. Today there is a statutory right to two weeks free at birth, so-called care leave. This right is triggered per birth, not per child. We believe that changing this so that twin families get four weeks, vibration families six weeks, etc., is natural. It should be considered whether to provide support to employers through public funding for the multiple family extracts. The third proposal implies that in those families that have triplets or even more children at once, both parents are to be given full parental leave. This applies to very few, between ten and twenty families each year, but there's a big difference from today's situation, where one should handle three, usually for premature births, children at once after just a short common leave. This is about securing enough hands to be able to take care of the children at the very beginning of their lives. The fourth proposal from us is the introduction of a statutory system of family vicars. The representative Bente Stein Mathisen had a very nice review of municipalities that provide good help and support to families who need it. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of families who don't get help. Then there's not the family situation in itself there's something wrong with it. Then it's the law, how it's handled, and how the arrangements are in the municipalities, there's something wrong with it. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1688	Then the representative Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1691	The government is concerned that families have a safe and sound framework that ensures a good care situation for the children. There is no doubt that it is challenging to have more children at the same time. Everyone who has children meets a hectic period, and most people are probably aware of the feeling of inadequacy in the infant period. I understand that the challenges are many when you become a multiple parent and have to take care of and care for more newborns at the same time. Some people will experience that special infant challenges and some illnesses can also put a strain on the family, regardless of whether one or more children are born. A short time between births can also be experienced as very demanding for some families. Thus, too many families will be completely different from multiple births that determine the need for extra help or special arrangements after birth. For me, it is important that families who are struggling, regardless of the number of children in the household, get proper help at the right time. It is not that multiple parents today have no rights beyond the rights of all young children’s parents. Today's parental pension scheme is red and flexible. Multiple parents are entitled to five or seven weeks extra parental leave for each additional child they receive, depending on whether they choose 100 pst. or 80 pst. coverage rate. Parents for vibrations are entitled to 10 or 14 weeks extra, while parents for quadruples will be entitled to 15 or 21 weeks extra leave. Parents may choose whether to take out these extracts so that they are at home at the same time or to extend the period of benefit. Also, in ten weeks' time, Dad can take home while Mom's at home. The right to care leave and to reduced working hours are enshrined in the Working Environment Act and the provisions are the same for all. I believe the rights, also for multiple parents, are well protected in today's law. Providing necessary and sound health and care services to its citizens is a municipal responsibility. It is up to the individual municipality to assess whether a family is entitled to help and the extent to which the assistance should be provided. We know that it is important to be able to provide early help to families, and the fact that one can provide more family-based services in the municipality is essential for us to be able to help families early. We also know that safe parents provide safe children. Therefore, I am glad that the government has strengthened the support apparatus around the parents and the family. In 2014, the subsidy scheme for parental support actions in municipalities was EUR 3,5 million. kr. The government has strengthened the arrangement in budgetary cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, and in 2016 it was more than 16 million. kr. Health stations meet the vast majority of children during their first year of life. Health centres may early detect families in need of specific follow-up. The free revenues of municipalities have been increased by 678 million. bet on health centre and school health services. It's also been earmarked for 100 million. kr for increased staffing in health centre and school health services. The government will continue to work to develop health centres as one of the most important family services and also has a project in five municipalities on cooperation between health centre and family protection. Municipal health and care services shall interact with relatives who have burdensome care tasks. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has had a legislative proposal to consult on enhanced family support. The situation of the dependants shall be strengthened by better provision of relief, guidance and a review of the neighbouring aid schemes. The government wants municipalities to have power and responsibility so that they can provide good services to their inhabitants. We don't want to regulate the municipal business in detail. As a result, the provision of services could naturally vary from municipality to municipality. I think we agree that there are many challenges that may be associated with having multiples. Nevertheless, good arrangements have been made for all parents today and the parental pension scheme has extended rights for parents who have multiple children at the same time. Other schemes are universal to all parents, such as the right to parental leave and reduced working time. In the end, I want to comment on just one of the proposals that came from the Central Party, and remember that we have set up a sample to look at the financial arrangements for small children's families. It can also be an important part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1717	The councils spoke in their speech about the feeling of inadequacy during the infant period. Nevertheless, the Council of State does not want to take action to remedy the inadequacy of multiple parents. It's like if you have two hands and three children laughing, you're actually not enough. Therefore, I wonder why the Council of State does not want to give the parents who experience the inadequacy a little more help in their everyday lives, and why does the Council of State not want to do more for the families that we know – and that is well documented – need more help and assistance to secure the children for the very first year of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1722	It is not the case that parents who have more children at the same time have no more rights than other parents today. As I mentioned in my post, today's parental pension scheme is both red and flexible, especially for multiple parents, both those who get triplets, and those who get quadruples. The fact that the birth rate can be taken at the same time as the mother's leave also helps to ensure that the first year of life can be longer at home with the children, and not least that they can be two. So I'm concerned that all parents who have challenges are seen and get the help they need. Therefore, strengthening health centres is important – it is health centres that meet families from the first day and can see if there are families that need extra help. It is also the responsibility of municipalities to have both family centres, Home-Start and other parental support measures that can protect and help families in the difficult situation in which they are – whether they have disabled children, whether they have two children, four children or one child.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1731	I agree that the parental pension scheme is both red and flexible, that it is good and that we must protect it. However, there is a limited amount of time available at home while you have more children to care for at the same time. Governments refer to other schemes to be used by multiple parents. Then I wonder what it is that the Council of State does not regard the family vicar scheme as an appropriate scheme for just families who need it. Then we're talking not only about multiple families, but also about families with acutely ill parents, children with special needs and others who may experience a crisis and need assistance in their homes for a short period of time. I wonder if the Council of State sees that it could help parents in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1736	Then I'll be a little personal. I grew up with four sisters, and in some periods my mother had to have the old housewife, who came and helped. I think we can all recognize that it was a good arrangement, that time. Then I am very happy that there are many municipalities that have good arrangements. If they call it housewives, or if they have other arrangements that allow someone to come home and help families when they need it, I think it's positive, but I also think it must be up to the individual municipality to have arrangements that ensure the families who need help for a period of time. I also want to refer to Home-Start, a voluntary parental support programme that offers relief and support to families with young children who have a difficult daily life. There are probably several municipalities that could also have had that offer, but I am still happy that there is – there is something that we support, and we see that there are many families that get good help from Home-Start.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1746	At regular intervals, we see examples in the media, and we have contacts with people who feel that the rights they are talking about warmly from political interlocutors are not part of their everyday lives. There may be a twin mother who has become a widow, who has broken a foot, and who has to drag around both herself and the kids to fix food and diapers. Such things happen, life is an unpredictable place to be. Many then feel that they fall between two chairs, that the municipalities have no tailor-made system, that neither home help nor environmental worker service is part of the municipality's established auxiliary equipment. I wonder, as the Council of State acknowledges the need and has itself learned that it may be useful, whether she will seize and ensure that families with need receive a more equivalent offer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1751	I just have to say that I fully agree with the representative's concern that very many people in the municipality of Norway do not get the rights they have under the law. It is a municipal responsibility to ensure that the municipalities give the citizens the rights they are entitled to. Very often, even in the area of child protection, the law is very clear, but we see that there are some municipalities that fail. Therefore, it is important that municipalities put early efforts, prevention and cooperation across services on the agenda, because we know that you can manage to get in early and help families, you may also be able to save some of the children who are facing challenges in the next step. That is why this is one of my main efforts — to invest in prevention and early intervention and encourage municipalities to work in this way. There are many good examples that we are going to take forward, but there are also too many municipalities that are not able to work well enough with prevention and early efforts towards families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1756	It's just a low-cost effort we're talking about, being able to help a family before the crisis gets complete, before you get so worn out that it goes beyond care -- getting the day to hang up before it rakes. We see so many examples of people who need help, either in an emergency or because they've had more children at the same time, or other circumstances that would have made you need some extra hands at home for a short period of time. However, it is felt that the municipalities say that they do not have arrangements aimed at it. They have a bureaucratic system, a lengthy procedure or simply not adapted to help. Could it not be that family-wives have been an appropriate solution to promote as a model in order to capture precisely the cases of slipping between two chairs – that the children should be given good care and a safe everyday life and that the parents should have an important relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1763	The government has not taken a position or discussed family vicars. I know that there has been a proposal that has come from SV several times. What matters to me is that the municipalities are free to organise arrangements that suit each municipality and family. The municipalities that are able to focus on early interventions and prevention — bet in health stations — are also able to meet families at an earlier stage and deploy relief measures in families that are struggling. When I've traveled around Municipality-Norway, I've seen many good examples of good arrangements. You have family centers, and you have your family's house where your family can get help. I believe it is important that the municipalities offer this to the citizens, because there are rights that families have. We also have to think that it is important to follow up families that have challenges in a period of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1770	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1786	The background to this legislative proposal is Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 97/2016 to amend Annex XVI to the EEA Agreement on public procurement. The draft law deals with the three so-called acquisition directives and they are considered to be EEA-relevant. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of SV, aligns with the assessments made in the proposal, and the majority recommends that the Storting should consent to the approval of Decision No 4 of the EEA Joint Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The matter has also been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which has joined the referral. Otherwise, I refer to the position of the Business Committee in the next public acquisition case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1797	These directives we are discussing today, entered into force in the EU in 2012. At that time, it might have been appropriate to find out what experience public authorities in the EU have had with the directives. The EEA offer of equal treatment for companies in 30 countries is expensive and heavy for many municipalities and public authorities. It takes working time and other resources to get involved in the bidding process, to design the tender documents so that they can be published internationally, and to carry out assessments of the offers that come in, in such a way that no complaints can be made. This supply regime is as painful in the EU as it is in Norway, the EEA. This is confirmed by a major study from EIPA, the European Institute of Public Administration, from 2009. The study has taken four EU countries plus Norway and Iceland and criticises that procurement rules limit local freedom to choose the way in which service provision is organised. According to CEMR, the Council of Europe Forum for Municipalities and Regions – the Norwegian KS umbrella organisation – the purchasing rules have become so complex that they are more harmful than useful. In a hearing in the European Parliament, CEMR spokesperson concluded that the bidding system has become more expensive, more complicated and more conflict-making for all parties. For example, the regulatory framework triggers: ever-increasing legal proceedings were brought by those who lose their bids. As a result, clients have to work hard to ensure that they are not withdrawn from the courts. Legal security often becomes more important than the design of the offer so that the assignment can be carried out in the best possible way. The legal proceedings lead to delays, insecurity and increased costs for both the contractor, the supplier and the developer. The demand for supply would make it cheaper for the public, but in practice has often led to the opposite. A study in England conducted by the KS’s sister organisation showed that two-thirds of the municipalities and regions surveyed believed that costs and administrative burdens had increased. In 2009, CEMR adopted a Charter of Local and Regional Services which advocates a strong delineation of the tasks that should trigger supply at EU level. According to the authorities, a basic right must be given to determine when to outsource a contract to an open tender, and when not to. Services of a local nature shall not trigger such an offer, according to CEMR. In addition, the EU must clarify the distinction between commercial and non-commercial services. The latter are in principle not covered by the supply requirement, but the EU has made it extremely unclear what is considered non-commercial. But the most important requirement for CEMR is that it must be up to the municipality what is going to be put on offer, and what the municipality can do with its own add whatever the form of organisation. So there was a little bit about the experience in Europe with these directives we are going to adopt today, which have been discussed to a small extent – perhaps not at all – in the context of the treatment here on the Storting. Here in Norway, KS has found that with the new Enforcement Directive, lawyers are becoming more important than economists in the public procurement arena. This umbrella organisation for Norwegian municipalities and county councils is also deeply concerned about the «overimplementation» of Norway has opted for the purchase directives. We are going on an important point much further than the directives require of us. With today's legislation, a public contractor can distinguish between ideal and commercial performers when purchasing health and social services. This is going to be a highly unclear issue within the new legislation, which we are going to deal with next, and thus everyone who is voting for the implementation of these directives today will put the non-profit sector in a potentially difficult situation. It is against this background, the experience that has been gained in Europe, and the problematic situations that this has seen, among other things. non-profit sector, SV is in favour of rejecting these acquisition directives by applying the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1829	I just want to say that the next case is the follow-up to these directives, and it is well known that SV is against the EEA and the EU and everything. But the entire committee has prepared for us to take the debate on what is the government's follow-up, and that's the next thing. I just wanted to make it clear. That is why no one else takes the floor in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1834	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1848	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1855	As rapporteur, I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. We've had a thorough treatment. Most of the proposals and comments are widely agreed on, and at my discretion we have improved the government's bill on a number of points. This matter has attracted considerable attention, as we see from the amount of footage, meetings and interest around the hearing. It is not so strange when we consider that the government purchased goods and services for about 460 billion. kr in 2014. This is about 14 pst. GDP. Due to the large volume of procurement to the public sector, this is an important customer for Norwegian business. Society is facing demanding change over the next decades, and the public sector needs to use its resources more effectively than today and at the same time offer safe and good services. Public procurement is an important incentive for the market and the Committee is committed to making public use of the role of purchasing to promote positive ring-effects. I think we have managed well to balance the importance of simplification in ensuring that important societal considerations can be met. In the open consultation of the nutrition committee, there were several who wanted more important considerations to be included in the purpose paragraph. Some called for consideration of competition, other social conditions. I think we have found a good solution when we now propose that the word ‘socially decent’ be included in the purpose paragraph, in order to stress that procurement should not only be effective but also address important societal needs. Such a need is environment. There is a cross-political consensus that the law should include a new environmental regulation aimed at strengthening climate and environmental considerations in public procurement. It is positive, and there is a clear notification from the majority of the Committee that Norwegian enterprises should not be subject to any competitive disadvantage due to spe­cific environmental requirements. Unfortunately, we see some examples of this today. The Committee also stresses the importance of life-cycle costs. The requirement for universal design also becomes clearer in the law. Another aspect that the Committee emphasises is innovation. Innovative acquisitions are important both for service production and for business, and it is evident from a recent Menon report. In addition, it can contribute to addressing major societal challenges, such as challenges in the care of the elderly or the transition to the low-carbon society. I am also pleased that a majority of the government asked how a risk regime for public acquisitions could be designed. Innovative acquisitions may give rise to higher risks and therefore a certain amount of risk relief is needed by the country. As previous rapporteur, I am well aware of this. It may not be possible to take the chance of innovative purchases if the risk is perceived as high. Then both the municipality and the business community can miss a lot. The issue that has probably received the most attention in the Committee's consideration is the relationship to the non-profit sector. I am pleased that, through the treatment, we have ensured that older and caring people will continue to receive good and safe health services from non-profit actors in the future, and an overall committee states that this will continue to be facilitated. It is also important that the Economic and Social Committee has, at my discretion, cleared up the uncertainty created by the government's legislative proposals on the ideal framework conditions. On the part of the Labour Party, we want to underline the important role of the non-profit sector, and we are committed to ensuring that they do not lose contracts with commercial players in the health and social sector. A Joint Committee decides that EEA legislation should exploit the space for action and that specific rules should be laid down on the acquisition of health and social services. It is important for the non-profit sector and the municipalities to ensure the necessary space for action as they wish. The Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, wanted to go even further – by legislating that contracts could be reserved for non-profit actors. Unfortunately, we did not get the majority on that, but an overall committee has nevertheless given important leads through comments, and the vote is very clear: It is established that it will be socially appropriate to provide for the continuation of a reservation facility and that this will be implemented in the regulation within the EEA area of action. A majority of the Committee also considers that different cooperation models used in the EU should also be available for use in Norway, for example. as Denmark has done to what is called ‘extended self-regime’. This is what the government is asking to look at now. It has also been important for the Committee to ensure regulatory simplification. New procurement procedures that give rise to negotiations between purchasers and providers are important in order to improve procurement. It is also agreed that the government should consider raising the national thresholds, so that fewer contracts are subject to the procedural rules. The Committee also considers that Norway, as the EU, must facilitate the fragmentation of contracts in order to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to compete with large-scale projects. At the hearing, the government sent proposals for regulations limiting the number of stages in the supply chain to three. The Committee also considers that it is necessary to make it possible to impose stricter requirements on the number of paragraphs, which would be applicable in sectors exposed to work crime. In particular, the Kongsberg Group and the Joint Undertaking have been concerned that the acquisitions of the defence continue to be exempted from the law, and the Committee agrees. The Committee also considers that no more detailed provisions should be introduced for the supply sectors than those resulting from the EU Directive and that no obligation to publish acquisitions below the threshold for our actors in the water, transport and energy sectors should be imposed. This is important for simplification and to ensure a level playing field with other EEA countries. It is gratifying that a unanimous committee is also committed to strengthening gender equality in business and sees that public procurement can contribute to it. In my view, the Committee has also provided good leadership to strengthen the apprenticeship clause in the law. Several have indicated that the previous public procurement notification, St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, Good procurement, presented by Stoltenberg II in 2009, has been a good action plan for public acquisitions. However, developments are progressing very quickly. Society is changing, and the law is changing. Therefore, there is agreement that we need a new, up-to-date message. Of course, this does not mean that the implementation of what we are adopting today should be postponed. Finally, I would like to say a little about enforcement. There is broad agreement that the power of the KOPA to impose an infringement fee should be reintroduced, which will result in more effective enforcement. However, the Committee is concerned that any person who does what is necessary to avoid or avert losses, disadvantages, damage or errors shall not be automatically charged an infringement fee. I am promoting this proposal No. 7 today, the proposal for a new legislative text, on behalf of the entire committee. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 2, on which the Workers' Party is involved. Finally, I would like to ask that proposal No. 3 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1904	The representative, Odd Omland, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1907	First, I must be allowed to thank the President and colleagues of the Committee for a good cooperation and a good process in this matter. I would like to highlight the chairman of the committee, Pollestad, who has managed to meet in a very good way and clearly distinguish the party hat from the committee leader's hat in an excellent and good way. That was the praise for today, good committee leader. So to the matter itself. This is a big and important matter, both for the public and for the inhabitants most. In spite of all the inhabitants, at the end and at the end, they are the final users of all public services. That's why this law is an important law that is often used to preserve other social aspects. Promises are fast a political tool to achieve different political goals in our society. However, the background to the law itself is EEA law, but also the desire to simplify both in the EU and not least here in Norway, as well as to improve the sanctioning rules in the event of breaches of legislation. Over time, there has been much criticism that the legislation is too complicated, too detailed, too formalistic, so it is very positive that the government has taken this into account. But then it's like when we politicians take away this, we tend to be for everything we are for, or we want to mark what we're against. Then it often becomes so that the promise must take many other care too. Many good considerations have been proposed here: child labour, equality, the environment, climate, poverty, integration, innovation, apprentices, etc. Such extra societal considerations make it very difficult for the contractor to obtain goods and services of the right quality, performance and price, in contrast to the need for a real one to cover, when there are many other societal considerations promised to last. It's very important to be sober, and the government has done well. It is in spite of all the citizens and society that have to take the cost with a comprehensive and demanding regulatory framework. Government has prioritised climate and environment, labour-life crime and human rights as important challenges in society that the promise should try to survive. Here the government has received full support from the Committee. The Committee goes a little further than the government, but is well aware that it will be more demanding to follow the legislation with the corresponding higher risk of errors in the administration. Purchasing is not a simple matter for the administration. The more important the laws will be, the more complex the promises will be, and the greater the risk of errors. Work on revision of government procurement is increasing, and bureaucracy is increasing. At the end of the seventh, society's costs increase. The national audit has already pointed out that existing legislation shows that there is a lack of competence in public procurement. There is a lack of compliance with the legislation, and there is a lack of internal control. In addition, purchasing is not efficiently organised in many places. There is good reason to expect that the new legislation will be simpler, but the Right also believes that it is very important that we focus on the fact that the administration will also be better. However, the main discussions have been linked to voluntary teams and organisations, and to what extent we can reserve contracts for those involved. The booking rules we currently have in the current law do not allow themselves to be passed on under new law under EEA law. In recent times, we have seen several issues both in Oslo and Bergen, where the City Council is trying to reserve contracts for non-profit organisations. It won't be possible in the same way as today. However, the government is clear that a desire to exploit the space for action contained in EEA legislation, while respecting the fact that there is a limit to breaking the principle of non-discrimination between providers. The Committee has thus pointed out a number of specific features of the services of voluntary teams and organisations, which can give them a competitive advantage. However, it is important to bear in mind that other providers are also free to acquire and offer such skills and qualifications. Take, for example: the condition ‘the ability to mobilise resources in society’. It’s a great award criterion – the Christian People’s Party should have a lot of praise for being so creative and nice – they are often, by the way. An example here may be the Red Cross Visiting Service in the care and care services. Connecting to such a resource as the Red Cross visitor service may also make other types of providers associated with other forms of organisation. There is no doubt that others, too, can take such a advantage. We have looked more closely at volunteers’ competitive advantages in terms of service provision and service quality, while ensuring equal treatment between providers. This is also very important for the Right. In order to ensure the quality of the legal space within the EEA law, the government is now to settle this. But it's a goal that we take full advantage of EEA law. It is not surprising that the Central Party and SV believe that the government will erase the whole non-profit sector by incorporating EEA law in this area. That is not the case. It is now up to municipalities and administrations to demand the right quality and service, so that one takes advantage of the advantages of non-profit organisations where they exist. This new legislation focuses on the needs of users, and it is, in fact, more subordinate to the provider and to the organisational form the providers have. The SV and the Central Party actually show that they have very low confidence in the non-profit sector when they think that the EEA rules will erase them completely. I think the non-profit sector will do very well. They have many advantages, and we have done a great deal for them in this matter – in the EEA legislation. The majority have realized that there is a high risk of focusing on innovation in public procurement. From time to time, we are told that hundreds of millions of dollars of public money are being squandered and squandered in questionable innovation purchases and projects that fall into the public domain. The majority will now charge a risk download to the operators in such purchases. I hope that the government will focus on the disadvantages of such risk removal. From my point of view, it is almost unreal that taxpayers and residents should be responsible for creative buyers and reckless sellers of air locks in order to reduce the risk of external companies using their taxpayers' money. I don't think there will be any less risky projects - on the contrary. Public doesn't need to be a playgrind for various experiments to reduce their own risk. Such a risk-reduction scheme that is being proposed here will give us more projects that fail, we will increase the cost to society as a whole and much more bureaucracy in following up such purchases. Several parties are concerned that Norwegian industry is not going to lose out on competition with others due to spe­cific environmental requirements. The rightmost one is left dependable. But it is almost impossible to follow up in practice, and it will be very costly both for providers and for the public to document such demands. The government is working every day to give Norwegian industry better and more like its competitors. But on a case-by-case basis, they were voted down here in the Storting of these parties who will introduce strange laws and strange demands for Norwegian industry. Although the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in this matter wish to non-discrimination between Norwegian providers in certain areas, the same parties vote for distortion of competition in other areas. I think it is very unfortunate that in one case they can vote for distortion of competition, and they also vote for special-purpose customs, they vote for special-purpose taxes, special-purpose taxes and special-purpose well-being, and a number of other things that make this a distortion of competition for Norwegian industry. I just think that they want to have equal terms, but they don't want to give them equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1956	Let me also start by thanking the case rapporteur, Mr Omland, for a well-worked job. That the whole committee is as united in the position that we are actually, I believe is a good test of that very thing. The Acquisition Act sets out the guidelines and frameworks for the acquisition of goods, services, construction or other benefits to countries, municipalities, municipalities, establishments, entities and directorates. There is a youth of different businesses who have to deal with this law. The public sector is a major purchaser, and in 2014 the total purchases of goods and services from the general government amounted to approx. 461 B.C.E. kr, or 14 pst. of gross national product. The public sector manages taxpayers' money and a large proportion of society's resources. It is a significant, but under-communicated purpose. The issue that we are going to adopt today is of such importance for this country's business life, value creation and economic development. Some have to deliver these goods and services to the seventh and last. The Government Platform designed at Sundvolden in 2013 is clear that this government will work for a ‘future industrial policy’ with ‘good general framework conditions’ that facilitate value creation and innovation. Someone's talking about what we're going to live on after the oil. I don't, but we have to live on something in addition to oil and gas for decades to come. What we're debating today is actually part of that equation. In this context, I am pleased that the Committee agrees that it is important to simplify the legislation with the objective of reducing the administrative burdens that have been imposed on the public in their procurement. Increased flexibility and a less rigid regulatory framework make acquisitions better for both contracting entities and suppliers. At the same time, the Progress Party and I would like to see the law simplified even more, in line with the government's proposal. New and simplified procurement procedures contribute to a better dialogue between contracting entities and providers in the procurement process, which will make participation in public competitions more attractive for small and medium-sized enterprises. It has also been clear for a long time that retail management of business does not contribute to efficiency and modernisation, rather to the contrary. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee sees the value of reducing this. It is important that the public sector uses its resources more effectively. Bureaucracies and rigid guidelines hamper the potential of public procurement. For many years, the Progress Party has also been concerned that we should work to ensure that industry is influenced by innovation and innovation. I would therefore like to give tribute to an overall committee which has put forward proposals to enable the contracting entity to lay down appropriate criteria and requirements relating to different stages of the procurement process. In this way, public contracts can be implemented in a way that promotes innovation. Director Abelia Håkon Haugli believes that more innovation in public acquisitions will provide better services to the inhabitants and a much more competitive business – a statement that I fully support. At a time when many are permitting and losing their jobs, it is particularly important to look at innovative solutions that create tomorrow's jobs and contribute to value creation and innovation. The Government has also proposed clarifying the objective of the procurement legislation. It is important that the objective of this legislation is achieved by clarifying the real purpose of the Acquisition Act. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government in the idea of cleaning up the foundations of the regulation on public acquisitions, where it becomes more clear what social responsibility the public actually has. This government and the majority of the population have in a short time done a lot for apprentices, and there's been a long-lasting uplift. There is reason to believe that the revised national budget to be adopted next week will further increase the apprenticeship allowance by NOK 2 500. The total increase after the previous roll-out will then total 17 500 kroner. Now you're getting closer to the level that the grant was supposed to have, which is the same thing as a school place costs. There is also reason to recall that the grant remained in place from 2005 to 2013. In addition to this, better provision has been made for apprentices with special needs. Now there is also the requirement for apprenticeships in all public tenders and establishments where there is a need. It is a particularly important signal for public enterprises to support and facilitate enterprises that are paying for the recruitment and development of the skilled worker. Non-profit institutions serving households are important providers of health and social services. These often have high confidence in the population, a high level of competence and therefore definitely have a valuable function. Under current legislation, it has been possible to reserve the acquisition of such services by non-profit institutions serving households. However, the continuation of this derogation is problematic due to EEA legislation and it is therefore good that a single committee does not challenge legislation. However, as noted in the comments, the EEA Regulation provides a space for action that can and should be exploited. It is therefore good for the non-profit sector that the Committee refers to the government's intention and supports the idea that Norwegian legislation exploits the existing space for action. By way of derogation from the legislation, the debate on the defence sector has been central in terms of the procurement rules. It is an important sector facing specific challenges in terms of framework conditions. In order to strengthen the Norwegian defence industry, I am pleased that the committee is in favour of continuing the derogation in the law. It implies that it does not apply to acquisitions which may be exempted under Article 123 of the EEA Agreement, which are linked under specific conditions to security interests. A still clear exception in law, I think, will be beneficial to the sector. In summary, it is important to have a procurement code that contributes to efficient resource use that stimulates more well-being and increased value creation. As mentioned at the outset, the public sector is a major purchaser, in which case it is important that the Regulation facilitates the purchase of goods and services for the benefit of innovation, innovation, recruitment, growth and economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e1984	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter, and I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur, Odd Omland, for a solid job that makes the Stortinge present a good and important attitude to the government's proposal, and that has helped the Stortinge to take very good and important legislative decisions today. By and large, I would like to say that the government has provided a good piece of legislation as a basis for the Bill of the Storting. One of the main points of this law is simplification. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the new acquisition law becomes a simplified version. However, the Committee emphasises the importance of a good balance between the need for simplification and reduction of administrative burdens on the one hand and the need to address the current societal challenges on the other. In order to succeed in the efficient use of resources, it is important that work on public acquisitions is primarily subject to good governance, planning and follow-up, and there must be appropriate organisation. Furthermore, sufficient resources and expertise in public procurement are important for the provision of 461.5 billion. NOK, as we used in 2014. To this end, the Committee stresses that acquisitions must be carried out on a planned basis and in accordance with established procedures. Need assessment must take place, implementation must be good and follow-up. This shall ensure that acquisitions take place professionally. The new law will also give an increased focus on environmental and social considerations and facilitate the increased use of apprentices, which will lead to greater demand for skilled workers and professionals, to mention something. On some points, Storting makes important and good improvements. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that social responsibility be formulated more clearly from the Storting than it is in the government's proposal, by adding the Stortinge to the objective that public acquisitions should not only promote efficiency but also serve society. It is important for equality to be included as a means of promoting public procurement. It is also important that public purchasing power is used to ensure ethical supply chains. Other things that Stortinget has taken up are life-cycle costs, which are reflected in the legal text. The Christian People's Party and I will believe that the starting point of all other parties is that the changes in the laws to be made by the Stortinget today will help ensure that all acquisitions ensure maximum value out of taxpayers' money. Therefore, I think it is rather surprising that the majority of the committee, all except for the Christian People's Party, in the vote says that the law on public acquisitions will only apply from purchases above NOK 100 000. For the Christian People's Party, this is a logical flaw. We are committed to ensuring that competition, non-discrimination, predictability, reprobability and proportionality apply from the first crown. Then the effort should be proportional to the value of the acquisition. The purchase of a tricycle to the kindergarten, if the previous one was broken, is subject to documentation requirements other than the purchase of furniture for the living room in the hospital at a price of e.g. NOK 95 000. It took me 120 seconds to check on Google prices on tricycles. I found prices from 400 kroner to 1700 kroner. It's not safe to buy the cheapest one, or the most expensive tricycle, but it's good food – useful to spend 2 minutes of working time and perhaps save your municipality for $300. The derogation from the law to which the majority of the majority of the majority in the European Parliament today submits, I am afraid, will lead to increased costs, less competition, poorer reputation and poorer quality. Summary: loss of value. So for an improvement that the committee has made through today's discussion. In the EU country Denmark, they have a model that we call ‘underhand’. It's contracts up to $3 million. kr. Under Danish law, the contracting entity is not obliged to publish such contracts, but may contact potential suppliers directly to obtain tenders. In Norway, according to the Purchase Regulation, we have a national obligation to publish contracts with a value of NOK 500000. The Committee considers that the government of the regulation to be drawn up should raise the national threshold so that several contracts are exempted from the obligation to publish. This is good for many, and I want here in this room to bring out, for example, the organ builders in this context. Last but not least for the Christian People's Party: we are very pleased that a joint nutrition committee and today an overall increase determines that it will facilitate a large and strong civil sector in the future. This presupposes good framework conditions for non-profit actors contributing to welfare services. A single committee is clear that the scope for action provided by the EEA Directive is to be exploited. A single committee wants a separate chapter of the Acquisition Act and a separate chapter of the Health and Social Services Regulation. This is important, because it underlines the specificities of health and social services and because it can facilitate ideal actors. Unfortunately, only a minority want the legal text to be able to say that contracts can be reserved for non-profit actors. There is also another minority that states that it is an objective to increase the role of the non-profit sector in the long term. However, the most important thing today is this: the size ensures a national law to facilitate the use of all EEA action spaces to reserve contracts for non-profits. The Committee considers that it is socially appropriate to continue reservation access for ideals under certain conditions. This means that where a municipality or another public purchaser needs services, the purchaser may choose between a number of methods: either open a tendering round, requesting specific criteria and characteristics, or calling for tenders reserved only for non-profit actors, or contacting an operator and concluding direct contracts, or, if the purchaser and an non-profit operator both so wish, using a cooperation model practised in EU countries. Then there are obviously different legal interpretations of what conditions the different strategies can use. What's important today is that with today's decision, we get a national law in place that doesn't in any way restrict the scope of action we have. The conclusions of the Nutrition Committee provide a good basis for growth for the non-profit sector, and it is very much appreciated by the Christian People's Party. This is about what societal development we want, and whether we are willing to use policy instruments to achieve our objectives. Today, the Storting makes some important decisions in this way. The size gives many and strong leadership to the regulatory work and the way forward. In particular, I would like to mention that, in the opinion of the Committee, the regulation should allow the contracting entity to conclude long-term contracts if this is necessary because of the needs of the users, the purpose of the contract, the investment costs, or there are other relevant reasons. It is also of the opinion that it is important that the contracting entity be able to conclude current contracts with the right of cancellation. The majority of the Committee considers that contracts may be reserved for NPISHs where, following a specific assessment in each case, this contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the authorities in the health and social sectors, in the interests of the Community's best and economic efficiency. The majority request that the regulation be designed in such a way that the various cooperation models are described and put into use in line with the objective of a strong civil sector during the coming period. These are some of the leaders of the new legislation. The Christian People's Party will follow closely the further work, and I will end by stressing the Committee's comment that a legal assessment for the purpose of the Swedish investigation etc. shall be carried out in parallel with and after the design and implementation of the new legislation. That means that we expect the Storting's leadership for the regulatory work to be taken in immediately. The Committee also underlines the need for good and detailed guides to describe the space for action and the various possible procurement strategies in a way that provides security and removes today's doubts about the scope and possibilities of action. I bring this up with suggestions that the Christian People's Party is alone about and proposals that the Christian People's Party has together with other parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2024	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2027	I am pleased that the law we are to adopt today has become a better law than the government delivered to Stortinget. For that I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done a good job and has contributed to the fact that we have a whole set of things. Then I couldn't help but hear that the representative Trellevik also sent some commendable words. I'm glad they're being written down, and I'm gonna take good care of them. I will also mainly join the post of the representative, Mr. Hemdal, who I think made a good account of the various matters. What has been important here is to find the balance between efficiency and other considerations — such as the environment, like apprentices, as human rights and as innovation. I believe that the balance point that we have found is good, and that it is followed up in regulations and law counsellors. There has been a lot of talk about the non-profit sector in this case, and there is a little back to the point of view of directives. It is not obvious that one should support the three Directives. At the same time, we see that on the point that is most important, the non-profit sector, the majority of the population do not want to use the space for action that lies there. Similarly, I believe that the government does not fully dare to challenge the space for action. It is then that when the will of the Storting to make full use of the space for action is not present, one cannot say in isolation that it is the directive that is the main problem. Then it has to be the composition of the Storting. The centre party will follow-up non-profit sector further. We believe that there should be an access to reserve contracts for the non-profit sector. We're recording that it didn't get a majority. However, there is a proposal for a representative in the Health Committee, document 8:85 S, where one will go into those matters in more detail, and it will be discussed in the Stortinget later. There is a distinction in the view of the non-profit sector between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left on the one hand and the other. I wish the left had fallen on the opposite side. Another issue worth mentioning is that for Norwegian business, public procurement is very important. We're talking about nearly 500 billion. kr, and it is important that both we as individuals and the public choose to buy Norwegian, and at least have competitions and purchasing systems that make Norwegian and local businesses compete on equal terms with others. That is why we have emphasised that special environmental requirements should not affect the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. That is why we have mentioned that we need to be able to split contracts. To take a concrete example: in road and rail development, there is no contradiction between the fragmentation of contracts and the development of larger, coherent projects consisting of several contracts. There is no difference, and there is a difference between Norwegian business and whether you are a main contractor of the public sector, or whether you are a subcontractor and have a large foreign contractor who has a contract with the state. That means something. That's why we also believe it's important that you stay at a high level in the thresholds, and that you take seriously the possibility of using so-called underhand. The most important thing is to collect more offers, and it is not certain that it is most effective that everything should be put on large national calls. Then I also want to visit – or visit – the representative of Trellevik’s posts. He went for a period of time up to the great heights, and I became particularly aware of the attack on the strange fees that the rest of us at Stortinget were supposed to face. Then I would just like to stress that the Central Party has nothing to do with either the proposal for, for example, a special flight seat fee or special purpose bag charge to be made. So I think that here the representative Trellevik should use mirrors to a greater extent and to a lesser extent glanced at when he's looking for challenges. I also have a brief comment on the comments of the representative Hemdal. That was excellent, but I want to take into account what I do not support, namely that the rules in Section 4 apply to the smallest acquisitions. First of all, I think when a kindergarten is going to buy tricycles, it would be in the children's garden's interest that one makes an effort to find the cheapest and best tricycle. It's about having a budget to deal with, and they're not so liberal that it doesn't matter if it costs 500 kroner or 1,500 kroner. The second point, as stated in Section 4 of the bill, is that it is necessary to ensure traceability. Reprobability means that someone should come back and ask what assessments they made when they made that acquisition. Then it's not good enough to say that a 'google' it. Then one has to document it. It creates bureaucracy, and that is why we do not support that proposal. But, of course, one assumes that all public procurement is done in a way that reduces the price. With that, I would also like to mention proposal No. 4, as the center part and SV are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2053	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2057	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the process we have had in the committee in this comprehensive and particularly important matter. I will give tribute to Odd Omland for the work he and others in the committee have done. Every day, business struggles to win public contracts at a total value of nearly 500 billion. kr per year. The community, of course, expects the best management of resources and the orderly competition. The left has long considered, and previously argued, that there is a significant potential for improving public acquisitions. Purchasing practices need to be improved and procurement rules need to be simpler. In addition, we have been concerned that the public sector needs to exploit the great innovation potential of public procurement and actively use procurement policy as an instrument in the green shift. It is therefore gratifying that with the introduction of a new law on public procurement, we are far in the process of achieving simpler, greener and more innovative public acquisitions. In this process, it has been important for the Left to simplify legislation and reduce administrative burdens both for contracting entities and for suppliers. At the same time, we have been committed to addressing key societal challenges, such as addressing environmental and climate challenges, combating labour-life crime and safeguarding international human rights. It is a fact that some societal challenges are so serious that it is also necessary to make use of procurement legislation in order to contribute to a general development in the desired direction. Indeed, there is no doubt that public purchasing power can contribute to influencing the development and demand for climate-friendly solutions. Demanding customers are key drivers of innovation. Creating a domestic market can be an important contribution to the development of eco-technological spearheads in industry and business. Developing good solutions at home in key business areas such as energy, industry, transport and shipping can also make a major difference between climate and the environment globally. The introduction of new public acquisitions law includes a very important strengthening of environmental provisions. A unanimous committee is of the opinion that new Section 5 is a clear tightening compared to today's wording. Where environmental impacts are to be taken into account in the planning of an acquisition under the current legislative paragraph, procurement practices should now be set up in such a way that they actually contribute to reducing environmental impacts and promoting climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate. So there is a lead here to ensure that environmental and climate considerations are taken into account in all aspects of the procurement process. I believe this is an important clarification that helps to clarify the environmental responsibility of the contracting entity. In this context, I would also mention that life-cycle costs are an elemental tool for carrying out good acquisitions. This is particularly true in the construction sector. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge has supported the requirement that life-cycle costs be taken into account in public acquisitions – that this is the case. Innovation is important for economic growth and is central to solving demanding societal challenges, such as the transition to the low-carbon society. I think society needs green innovations, not just repetition of previous purchases. I see business as an important partner to realise the ambition of a more innovative public sector, while the public sector can also be an important driver of more innovation in business. That is why I am pleased that the Left has been able to make a strong contribution to bringing innovation into the law. This means that public contracts now need to be implemented in a way that promotes this. The size of the public market makes it necessary to exploit the innovation power that lies here, and I believe it is essential that public acquisitions contribute more to innovation and innovative solutions. However, innovative acquisitions lead to higher risks because the parties cannot have full control of the process or result, as is more so when contracting entities purchase shelf goods or order the same as the last. Risk is a result of probability and consistency, and although the grantor and the supplier can jointly minimise the likelihood of something going wrong, there will often be a residual risk. For this reason, I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of the government issuing a risk regime for public acquisitions, which can lower the threshold for rethinking in the public sector. It's very important. Under the applicable legislation, the purchaser must decide on the procedure to be followed before the contest is announced. In this way, operators know whether to conduct negotiations or not when to write the offer. However, in the proposed new procedure, purchases do not have to decide on this until after the offers have been delivered. Suppliers shall therefore make offers which they are obliged to make, without knowing whether the buyer makes the choice of supplier the basis of which, as the offer has been made, or whether the buyer is to negotiate with one or more operators. I am concerned that this could lead to many actors not offering, that unprofessional players will have a huge competitive advantage, and that the room for innovation in public acquisitions will be significantly less than intended. I would therefore like to remind you that a unanimous committee believes that the contracting entity should indicate in the notice whether it intends to negotiate or not. The left expects this to be followed up in regulations, so that we avoid unnecessary unforeseeability for the operators, an uncertainty which in the worst case is so great that a person is at risk of losing confidence in the competition for the mission. Today’s legislation allows contracts to be reserved for non-profit actors in the whole of the health and social field. As a result of a new EEA legislation requiring equal treatment of different groups of suppliers, it has been doubted whether this exemption rule can be maintained. In the new law, therefore, this reservation option is passed on only to a limited number of contract types, which in practice means that in the areas where the ideals are protected today, they will still be protected. I'm glad we've found a good solution for the ideals. Ideals are of great importance as providers of health and social services in Norway. They have special advantages and characteristics that are valuable to society, while having conditions other than large commercial and public actors. These are the values to be taken into account, while the Left considers it important to review the legislation once the pension issue in the non-profit sector has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2093	I want to put myself in line with representatives of the committee who thank the case-speaker Odd Omland for an excellent job. He has solved the committee through a demanding case and a demanding time in a very fine way. And thank you to the committee, a new committee for my fellow member, it's a committee that's very constructive and nice to work with, despite some considerable inconvenience. Law on public procurement is a very extensive law, which must take a lot of different care. On the one hand, it is a tool that can help achieve important goals in society. It can contribute to a greener and more diverse business. It can contribute to a more innovative and research-based business. And it can help to increase skills and vocational training, the seriousness, human rights, etc. in business. This is also consideration we seek to include in the law on public procurement. Because the amount of the promise is more than 500 billion. kr, it may be a very effective tool for Norway. At the same time, we must not be overconfident, so that from Stortinget we can create such rigid rules – which require so much time and can lead to force, lawsuit and conflict – that the whole idea of the regulation is undermined. I would like to refer to my article on the previous case, on the introduction of the EEA purchase directive, which SV is opposed for these very reasons. We fear that the implementation of these directives could also mean the beginning at the end of the non-profit sector – and that would be very unwise. But we've never said that it's going to erase. We've never said, either the Center Party or SV, anywhere, as far as I can see, that this will erase the non-profit sector. For that, the insecurity is too great. I would like to ask the representative Trellevik to give a concrete example where it is said from the Center Party and SV that this will erase the non-profit sector – that some in SV or the Center Party have said so. Our point has always been that there's a lot of uncertainty, and it's the uncertainty that makes SV not want to implement the code, in addition to the amount of increased costs, that it will go slower and that it will lead to more conflict. When a large number of people in the Stortinget go into implementing this code, the role of those like us in the SV is to make sure that Norway at least uses everything that travels and allows to make the legislation so that it does not have very negative consequences for, among other things. non-profit sector. We believe that there are some possibilities here, and we have also, in the case, together with the others, referred to various European Courts that point in that direction. We do not understand why it should be difficult for the rest of the committee to form plurals and challenge the legislation in this area. Unfortunately, there is a minority in the committee who want to reserve the offer for non-profit actors. It should be easy, I think, and the rest of the minority in the committee, to challenge the legislation in this area. Norwegian industrial enterprises meet in several contexts what is called "sondernorse environmental requirements". These are demands that we are proud to have here in Norway. This means that enterprises are among the most energy and environmental efficient in the world. This makes them the most highly technological and advanced industrial producers in the world. At the same time, however, it imposes additional costs on industry and weakens competitiveness as a result. Then it's a paradox that we in Norway have no corresponding environmental requirements when public purchasing industrial products. This means that reinforcement irons are bought from China instead of Mo in Rana, because it's cheaper. But as we know, China's industry is much more dirty. As a result, Norwegian public bridges, roads and cultural houses are partly built with material imported from low-cost countries with completely different environmental standards for industrial production. With today’s procurement legislation, those parts of the global industry that are not subject to stringent environmental requirements, which pollute the environment and beggar very negatively in the climate struggle, are thus granted a competitive advantage by Norwegian authorities. And not enough: We are thus actively undermining the industry we ourselves want to build. Get it, whoever wants it. Environmental requirements for production and environmental requirements for products and finished products, such as: furniture, textiles, cement and steel: why can't public procurement be subject to the same purchasing requirements? I am surprised that the government, as they often say, is engaged in the framework of industry, on the one hand supports spe­cific environmental requirements and, on the other hand, will not be able to agree that it should be part of the procurement policy. Is cheap product and low price so important that one forgets both the environment and the Norwegian industry? Is cheap product and low price so important that a victim of Norwegian jobs? In a situation of increased unemployment, this is very strange. Today, we have a number of arrangements in the public sector where private operators can search for risk relief when they are going to bet on something new. We have Enova, Innovation Norway, Research Council, Seed Fund etc. – schemes that give risk-absorbing to private operators when they are going on a new path. That's good. SV supports all these systems of the whole heart. It is very important that the public provide risk relief in situations where Norway needs to change its path. The same arrangements do not have public actors. And that should be a little cross of thought. This leads to public actors refusing to use new technologies, new solutions and ideas, because it poses too much risk. This leads, as the representative from the Left said so well, to using yesterday's solution instead of the future because there is less risk attached to it. We are therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee agrees that it should be carefully explained how such a public system could look. A public sector that dares to be new will lead to more efficiency and better services, as the representative Bjørnstad was so concerned about in his post. Let me just take an example in the area of health: here we have all the conditions that are needed to create amazing e-health services for the nation's population. We also have a very strong technology environment that can develop because of this, and we have very competent older people – Norway seems to have the most computer-competent retirementist in the world. It should all be possible for one to create fantastic innovation in public through this. But maybe some of the answer to why it doesn't happen, because the municipalities aren't so forward-looking, because it takes so long in Norway, is that we don't have that kind of risk-loading system. I like the plural, and I hope that this is something that the government embraces, even if they are not involved in the proposal. Finally, it is very important that the Purchasing Directive provides for a minimum of seriousness and dignity in working life. We cannot have a procurement code that passively allows social dumping, unprofessionalism, corruption and crime. That's why SV goes in for, among other things. requirements for the transparency and transparency of subcontractors. As it turned out in the hearing, this is also something a lot of actors on the floor agree to contribute to a state of work that we can all acknowledge. I bring this up with SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2137	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2140	Today, the majority will consider the government's proposal for a new law on public acquisitions. The law and its regulations regulate the procedure to be followed by the public when purchasing goods, services and works. In 2014, the total public procurement of goods, services and works amounted to about 460 billion. kr. Large parts of these purchases are governed by the Acquisition Act. The main objective of the law is to ensure the efficient use of society’s resources in public procurement. When we are now discussing the design of procurement legislation, and not least the other social concerns to be addressed, I believe that it is an important perspective to have. The basic principles set out in the legislative proposal shall contribute to the achievement of the objective of good and efficient use of resources. Contracting entities shall act in accordance with the principles of competition, non-discrimination, predictability, reprobability and proportionality. The procedural law contained in the regulations is based on these principles. In recent years, there has been growing criticism that the procurement law is too detailed, complicated and formalistic, and that contracting entities have become more concerned with avoiding errors than with making good purchases. In addition, studies show that Norway is among the countries in Europe with the highest costs associated with their acquisitions. The main objective of the government has therefore been to simplify the legislation. There has been a need for a critical review to assess the rules that need to be maintained and which we can be ahead of or simplified. The EU has also adopted three new procurement directives to help increase regulatory flexibility, reduce administrative burdens and clarify legal issues. At the same time, the Committee on Simplification has proposed a number of important simplifications in the specific national part of the legislation, and I support a large number of their proposals. The public is a big player with a lot of market power, and although it is a goal to get the most value for money, there are also other values that public authorities should take care of. Suppliers who squeeze prices through crime, irresponsible employment or unsustainable solutions should not win competition for public contracts at the expense of serious suppliers with forward-looking solutions. For this reason, the Government has proposed to introduce new rules requiring contracting authorities to ensure that different societal considerations are properly addressed in the procurement processes. Contracting entities shall set up their procurement practices in such a way as to contribute to the reduction of harmful environmental impacts and promote climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate. In practice, this means inviting Norwegian companies to come up with smart, green solutions in response to public tenders. Contracting entities shall also have appropriate procedures in place to promote respect for fundamental human rights where there is a risk of breach of such rights. Crime in the labour market is an increasing challenge, and enterprises that systematically contravene laws and regulations are destroying business. Therefore, the Government will require contracting entities to pay and working conditions and not least to limit the number of stages in the supply chain. The work of getting more people to complete and pass higher education is important, and we see that too many students have no apprenticeship. At the same time, we see an increasing need for the skills of professionals. We need more skilled workers, and then it's also our job to do what we can to make sure that they get an apprenticeship, get into a business and get the necessary skills. For the government, it has therefore been an important point to strengthen the requirement for apprentices in the new law. Now it no longer holds that the company is linked to the apprenticeship system, we now demand that there be apprentices linked to the specific contracts. It is an important objective that the new law should be manageable for small contracting entities with limited administrative resources. Greater flexibility and less administrative burdens for both contracting entities and suppliers will benefit everyone, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Electronic self-declaration allowing suppliers not to submit mass documentation unless they are given the assignment, and the breakdown of contracts is an example of this. There is little doubt that there is a tension between simplification and other important societal considerations. That is why it is essential to give a good priority, and I believe that we have. Norwegian business is in transition, and we need to create new jobs in both existing and new businesses. So public acquisitions amount to about 460 billion. kr annually. Increasing the level of innovation with a small share of this will have a major impact on growth in innovative suppliers. Innovation in public procurement is about putting contracting authorities first to focus on the needs of dialogue with the market, so that new solutions can be found for businesses. We have many good examples of how this can be done, but it's potential for more. The new law will give greater access to negotiation, and a brand new type of contract, innovation partnership, will be introduced to promote innovation. The government believes that the ideal providers of health and social services are characterised by a high level of competence and commitment to the services they provide. They have a long and proud history of providing – and not least they have often started up – important welfare services. The government is concerned with diversity and quality of welfare services. That is why we are particularly concerned about cooperation with NPISHs providing health and social services. We have continued and further developed the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector on the delivery of health and social services, and with the KS as a party to the agreement. We have developed an action plan to improve the framework conditions for ideals. The government has also set down a sample assessing state compensation to non-profit institutions serving their public service pension costs. On the part of the government, we are concerned that, through simpler and more flexible rules, we provide good conditions for the ideals. The new regulation on public procurement will contain a separate chapter on health and social services. In this context, we will clarify the possibilities for long-term or ongoing contracts and explain that the implementation of competition may focus on conditions of service that are particularly important to users, such as quality, user involvement and continuity. These elements are traditionally very good for ideal businesses. In addition, the government wishes to make full use of the space for action provided by EEA legislation to facilitate the continued provision of health and social services by non-profit institutions serving households. The Economic and Social Committee has asked the Government to obtain an external legal investigation into the scope of action in order to ensure non-profit actors in the health and social field, including various forms of cooperation. In this context, the Government will consider the scope of action to reserve competitions for contracts for health and social services for non-profits and the possibility of various forms of cooperation with non-profits, as extended self-government, within the framework of EEA law. At the same time, the government will take advantage of the opportunities available to us to influence the development of justice in the EU in this field. Last but not least, the government has been committed to strengthening the enforcement of illegal direct acquisitions because experience shows that it does not function properly. The Government has therefore proposed to reintroduce the complaint subject of public acquisitions its competence to impose an infringement fee in the event of illegal direct acquisitions. The Economic and Social Committee has proposed some adjustments to the legislative text. These are mainly clarifications that are consistent with government policy and that were intended to be regulated in a similar manner in the regulations. I now look forward to putting in place a new and modernised acquisition law. It means a lot to the public, but it also means a lot to the private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2194	There is a broad consensus that the public sector, through its purchases, can be an important driver of innovation in business, as underlined by the Council of State in its intervention. A majority of the Committee now requests the examination of a risk-relief scheme. This is something that businesses demand, and the NHO has proposed a testing scheme aimed specifically at health and care or climate challenges. Does the Council agree with the representative Trellevik, who stated in his statement that a risk regime requested by the NHO and the majority of the Committee would be to encourage the public sector to waste money on dream chateaux and make innovative purchases where taxpayers’ money is wasted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2201	First, I believe that the government is now going much further with the new legislation than we currently have, in getting innovative acquisitions, precisely because a dialogue between the buyer and the supplier will be able to contribute to innovation, among other things. And that's why I'm glad that the majority is asking for an investigation of this. That's how we have arrangements today. We have a national supplier development project, which this government has, without reservation, tripled, I think, since we came into government, because we believe it is important to contribute through cooperation. This is a collaboration between NHO, KS and Diffi to develop good projects, and we see good results of that. It's one arrangement. Over the next week, which is to be adopted, there will be 65 million. kr in an incentive scheme for the counties to tender for ferries, in order to obtain eco-innovation schemes. So there are arrangements that can be arranged, but it is generally to put in a risk relief or generally to oblige the country to pay for errors, for example. in the municipalities, I think I can be very demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2210	It is good to hear that the Council of State and the Government will facilitate the non-profit sector, and, as the Council of State itself said, use the space for action within the EEA. Yes, the ideals have great skills, they've been driving for a long time, they're helping to give diversity to the users, and they're helping to provide quality services. The majority will adopt its own legislative paragraph later today. Then there will be a regulation that the Council of State and the Government will produce on health and social services. However, the Committee is also concerned that there is a need for good and detailed guides to describe the space for action and the different purchasing strategies. I think I'd like to say that this is also urgent in order to get the security that this area now needs. When could the Council say that the supervisors are in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2217	First of all, I want to say that I feel that we are common, all in this room, if I wanted to still have the reservation that we have today for the ideals and the ideals space within this field. It is also my opinion that if previous governments had done their job, we might have avoided standing in the situation we are in now, because when you realized that this was something you were busy about, the train in the EU was actually gone. I'm sorry. But now that we're in that situation, we have to relate to the space of action we have. We are now being asked to obtain a new external legal investigation of it. We'll do that as fast as we can, and then we'll have to guide on that basis. So we have to give advice and guidance based on what we think is legally correct. This is not politics, it is jus, and we have to deal with it for the sake of the ideals, and not least for the sake of all those who are going to deal with this legislation. So this we're going to do as fast as we can. We have to get this code in place, and we have to get it into the systems of those who use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2224	I would like to start by referring from a press release, 13 May, from the Minister of Industry: «We are constantly hearing examples of low or poor environmental requirements in public contracts and serious suppliers of environmentally friendly products being overlooked by competitors with less environmentally friendly products. That's not the way we can do it, says Minister of Industry Monica Meland." My question is very simple: What measures will the Minister take to ensure that serious suppliers of environmentally friendly products are not overlooked?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2234	I'm glad that this government is now making environment a shell requirement in the law. In other words, purchasers have to set environmental requirements in their purchases, and then KOFA will actually be able to assess their relationship with the rules that are in place. We introduce a requirement related to this, to which all purchasers must relate – and we feel that the purchasers are trying to deal with the legislation to the best of their ability – and then we reintroduce the KOPA's opportunity to pay an infringement fee if there is a breach of the rules. It's important to have a preventative effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2240	Many, e.g. municipalities, are engaged in using local business. The Committee has referred to this as ‘under-hand’. My question to the Council of State is: in a situation where a municipality should list a building, it might cost 3, 4, 5 million. kr, and ask four local contractors to submit offers – does the Council of State consider that competition concerns have been taken care of and that this can be a good way to resolve it, rather than having a national obligation to publish?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2245	I am too competitive, and that is a reason why we have the obligation to publish. It is precisely to contribute to competition under the same conditions as possible. So I encourage – and I have great confidence – that the municipalities or other buyers relate to the rules that apply, and announce when required.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2250	I noticed what the minister said about environmental requirements, industry and public procurement rules. I thought it was basically very sad that the government party could not participate in being offensive in this area, so that environmental requirements are reflected in the procurement regulations. But if the result is the same, this representative is happy. I've been to Celsa in Mo in Rana, one of the world's foremost in reinforcements, on both environment, price, technology, etc. They are very interested in Norwegian operators buying reinforcement irons in China. Can the Minister guarantee that this is the last time public actors buy reinforcements from China?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2257	On behalf of all the buyers in this country, I do not think I should guarantee anything but to encourage compliance with the Stortinget Act, where environmental concerns should be taken into account. This with reflecting Norwegian environmental requirements and the motive for it is, of course, good, but it is quite difficult to imagine that this would lead to simplified legislation. It will assume that all buyers in Norway know all the laws and regulations, all the taxes that apply to the purchase they are to make. This can be very, very demanding, and therefore I believe what we are landing here, to set environmental requirements as part of the purchase to be assessed is correct and important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2262	In his reply to the representative Hemdal, the Council of State had an opinion that this is juss, it's not politics. Here we may be at some of the core of the challenge in terms of the situation of the ideals. Where politics ends and where the pussy begins, I think there's a certain room for action in it. It has also been interesting to see how the Swedish Council of State, which is responsible for some of the same field, seems to see a large room for action in this field. I felt that the Council of State was quite clear that it wanted to use the space for action towards the non-profit sector. I just want a clear confirmation that when you look at the situation today, where the majority of the Stortinges also want it, you will also use the political space to get as far as possible in giving the non-profit sector good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2269	When we joined the government, the first thing we did was to travel to Brussels to try to retain the right to reserve. So that train had gone, that job wasn't done well enough by those who sat before us. The other thing we did was to get an external, legal opinion to figure out exactly where the room of action is. That's the job I realize the Swedish minister is doing now. We did it for a while back. Then I also see that Stortinget asks us to get another assessment. We're going to do that. When someone asks me to confirm that we want to use the action room, the answer is: Yes, we want to do so within the EEA law. We won't do anyone a favor if we challenge the pussy. It won't be good for Norway, it won't be good for the ideals, but it'll be most complicated for all the buyers who are going to get a code we say challenges that right. But we have to do what we can to find the best possible framework conditions for the ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2276	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2281	First of all, I want to join in the praise that the case spokesperson has received for very good and thorough work. I guess it's fast. The public buys goods and services for about 460 billion. kr annually. Then it says itself that the public is a big and important customer for Norwegian business. The Committee noted that purchases should not only be effective but also socially sound. This is now included in the scope of the promise, to underline that buyers will also be able to meet important societal needs. This approach also balances the concerns about simplification and important societal considerations, such as: innovation, competition and the environment. A new environmental aspect will also be legalised to help strengthen the climate and environmental dimension of public procurement. Norway has peculiar, stringent environmental requirements, and that is precisely why our industry is at the forefront when it comes to technology development, conversion and environmentally friendly solutions. The solution is not to remove these specific requirements. For this reason, I am pleased that the majority in the Committee – The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – stress that where Norwegian companies are subject to specific environmental requirements, this should also be taken into account in the environmental requirements imposed by the public when purchasing goods or services – in order to prevent our businesses from being competing with suppliers that may be cheaper but do not have the same environmental profile. This is something that especially Norwegian industry has been busy about, and that the majority in Stortinget supports. An example here is the purchase of Kumlock for E134 — from China instead of from Ulefoss. It's not very environmentally friendly. The relationship with the non-profit sector is important for the Labour Party. The insecurity bill to the government created around the terms of the ideals is now parked. When the government submitted it, the NHO Service sent out a letter of formal notice in which they rejoiced that they would have to compete on equal terms with commercial operators in the fields of health and care. This has changed Stortinget. A single committee decides that the EEA legislation should be used in this field. An important step to simplify is for the government to increase the national threshold of SEK 500000, so that fewer contracts are covered by procedural rules. It is also important for Norway to follow the EU and to facilitate the fragmentation of contracts, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can also compete for large-scale projects. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is particularly important for defence procurement to continue to be excluded from the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2296	I want to join those who praise the good work of the committee, because the scope for action now seen means a great deal to the development of the service provision in the municipalities. As health policy-makers for three years, we have been dishonoured by both NPISHs and municipalities that have been concerned about the lack of predictability and the uncertainty it has created. Oslo Municipality had a big look in the evening post quite recently. In the municipality of Bergen, they have had long traditions of cooperation with the ideals, especially in nursing homes. A quick overview shows that 13 of the 37 nursing homes are run by ideals, and they've been doing that for very many years. The municipality of Bergen has a clear philosophy, a political desire and a will not to commercialize. The two hospitals that have been commercial, the municipality will return to municipal operations. This has meant diversity. When there are no tenders, it means that you can share knowledge and exchange how to develop further. Strong leadership in the municipality has also contributed to the willingness to further develop the nursing homes, and the residents and users are happy with the nursing homes they have. If the municipality were to take over these 13 nursing homes, they wouldn't have economic muscles to take over the building mass of these 13 nursing homes. This would mean a great deal of uncertainty, not least for the elderly, but also for all relatives and employees associated with this large part of the business. This applies to a lot of municipalities. There are great expectations of the work to be undertaken now in order to realise the strong will of the Committee to use the space for action provided by the existing legislation. The second thing I want to highlight as very positive is innovation. I have worked a lot to try to look at the possibility of it within the current thinking and regulation, and it is slow matter. Ilfergen was put in place with state activities – with Lavik–Opedal. Then we tried correspondingly with the county council, whether they could be equal drivers – 17 different ferry rentals they have responsibility for in Hordaland. It is very difficult matter to be able to reverse attitudes, so there is a great job for the authorities to raise their skills, both in the private sector – and not least in the public sector. Here we have an incredible amount to pick up. We see the needs: cooperation with users, cooperation with the research community and cooperation with private individuals to further develop the supply. It's an incredibly important field. Maybe that's the area I have the greatest expectation that something can happen, and I'm looking forward to the regulations coming into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2309	There's someone who sometimes gets a description like this: he knew the price of everything, but didn't know the value of anything. It's not a particularly flattering description. We know that we may not want to be such a person. I want to talk about the important and valuable task of the ideal service providers in health, care and care. The ideal sector represents an entire culture in our society, a long history built on solidarity and responsibility for fellow humans. Ideal actors were there when the welfare state was not built. Maybe we can say that the non-profit sector represents what we like to highlight as the best in our society. Ideal actors provide services in the health and care sector on behalf of the community, and they operate non-profit, i.e. the return of any surplus to the development of the basic services. In the non-profit sector, there are no private investors taking out profit for their own enrichment, nor are there any hidden transfers through internal transactions. Employees have wages and pensions in line with public standards. In addition, non-profit actors provide high-quality services and often cut very high on both user satisfaction and measured with objective criteria. We who want ideals to continue to have a place as healthcare providers have long been concerned that private, commercial providers are increasingly competing with ideal actors. The proportion of non-profit-making welfare actors in Norway is now down to 8 p.m., which is among the lowest in Europe. It is therefore so important that the decisions taken today by the Stortinget provide clear guidance for the government to use the room for action provided by the EU's Acquisitions Directive and to recognise the ideal position and self-value. In particular, what has been the subject of debate is what kind of action spaces exist in the framework of the Directive following the decision of the European Court of Justice in Spezzino. The interpretation of the judgment suggests that the new Directive is not in the way of national reservation rules for contracts in the health and social field, under certain conditions. In particular, it is emphasised that a sheltered acquisition can be made when it is best for the Community and contributes to the budgetary efficiency of reserving such contracts. I think it is a pity that the boldest proposal put forward in this case – just to reserve contracts in the health and care field for non-profit actors – does not seem to have a majority in the Chamber today. This means that there may be more urgent times for non-profit service providers in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2324	I would like to congratulate the Committee on a very good and solid attitude. I want to make two points, which the Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned about. When the Christian People's Party two years ago made a proposal against the black economy, it was that apprentices should be required when the public made tenders, one of the most important proposals, and it got the approval of the Storting. That is why we are very pleased that this was first followed up in the government's strategy against undeclared work and now in this law. So the question related to the ideals. This has been a repetition in this room, at least since I got here, and it's now over ten years ago. It's right, as the council says, that the previous government slept an hour. I'm sorry to say that, but that's the case. It is also right to say that at national level, in Norway, there has been no intention of using the space of action that has always been there to ensure that the non-profit sector is seen as something other than a purely commercial player or as an extension of the public sector. And here we are at the heart of the Christian People's Party. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a welfare society – and I'm not talking about state – is made up of more foundations than just public and private. It's a third and important foundation, and it's civil society. Here, organisations have played a historically very important role in seeing tasks that the public didn't see, and that didn't see the commercial either. Now the question is, are we going to continue with this foundation, or are we going to let it go? I'm very pleased that the majority is clear that you want to use the space of action that's lying there. I realized that the Council of State also said that it would follow and try to influence the development of justice within the EU system. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say a few words about what she is thinking about, and what opportunities are there for it in the near future. I can only assure you that we will follow exactly this part of what is adopted today, very carefully. And I hope and believe that what is expressed here from all parties is also realized in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2340	A healthcare sector with a significant element of non-profit organisations and providers of health and care services will contribute to the security of the community, strengthening democracy and building bridges between citizens, voluntary and public administrations. In most Western countries, there is an active policy to ensure a mix of private commercial, private and public welfare services providers. In Norway, sales rounds for non-profit organisations have been an important tool. When implementing the EU Public Procurement Directive in Norwegian law, this tradition is threatened. The business committee has a good attitude based on this situation. It is clarified that Norway should make use of the action space provided by the EU Directive and that it includes awarding contracts directly to voluntary organisations under certain conditions. The majority of the Committee has instructed the government to design the regulations so that cooperation models can be used. This applies, for example: the ‘extended ownership’ scheme. However, the Left therefore rejects the proposal to grant contracting entities access under more detailed conditions to reserve contracts for health and social services for non-profit organisations. We have to sort this out after the fall of the next big shot. Today, many people in the debate talk about the non-profit sector, but this promise does not secure the non-profit sector. That's the Biggest's policy. The government platform states: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. Statutory rights to welfare services, combined with free establishment rights and price financing directly to the service provider chosen by the consumer, may contribute to ensuring such development.’;» It is this policy that is a direct threat to the non-profit sector in Norway today. It does not help with a relatively good purchasing law if the government has hurt its way. The centre party wants to get away from this competition ideology and thinks that today's volunteer and non-profit system has many weak aspects and should be discontinued for the benefit of ongoing agreements with the public based on quality. The Central Party has put forward a proposal for the Storting to set a target for the non-profit sector in Norway. 25 pst. of the overall care sector shall be organised and operated as a non-profit-making activity by 2030. The matter will be dealt with in the Storting of the Autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2360	The public is, as mentioned here, a very large order for services in Norway. This means that there is a significant impact on business and employment of public intervention in the market. If the public decides to impose certain requirements, enterprises simply cannot afford to fail to adapt to these requirements. It gives a lot of opportunities, and it gives a lot of responsibility. This means that the public cannot be blamed on other actors when it comes to labour and social dumping in some sectors. They just have to go on their own. In fact, the public is a target for the criminals precisely because they order goods and services for such large sums. More aspects of procurement law can do something about this. Restrictions on the supplier side are one aspect and apprentice clauses are another. Learning clauses are important to ensure the apprenticeships of young people in a professional field. Today, there are several thousand people who don't get a lesson every year. It is an entirely unsustainable situation in itself, but when we now say that companies must have apprentices if they are to have projects on public contracts, businesses will have to set up more apprenticeships. That's good for the youth. Then it gets other consequences as well. If companies are to have apprentices, they must have skilled workers to guide the apprentice. This means that enterprises must invest in skilled workers and the skills of employees. It is a step – albeit perhaps a small step – in the opposite direction of temporary employment agencies and several temporary jobs, which are now becoming more and more widespread and in which the government is so pleased. Enterprises now serve to invest in the competence of employees and to invest in apprentices. So we know that companies that have their own employees skilled workers, who are related to apprenticeships, are less engaged in social dumping and labour-life crime. It's important here to say that there's no guarantee in any way that they don't, but that it's less likely, and that's good. But there is reason to challenge the Council of State to say something about which industries she thinks it might be particularly relevant to use these apprenticeship clauses and the limitations in the number of stages of the contract chain. I have to say, however, that some of the finest things about this apprenticeship clause are what we say to young people, to inspiring skilled workers. Here we say, we're betting on you. And we say to the companies, if you want to have a contract with the public, you have to bring the youth with you. These are the ones we build the future for, and now we make sure that they are also allowed to participate in the construction of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2373	There was a proposal that minority motion No. 3 should be converted into a regular transmission proposal. The right hand side of the game and the right hand side of the game can be behind it, that it will be turned into a transmission proposal. There were not many points raised in this particular case today that the rules for public procurement would reflect strange environmental requirements. It was mentioned from SV that there were some steel suppliers in North Norway, and the Workers' Party called some kumlocks. I am quite overconfident that with Section 5 of the new law, which indicates that one will take on both climate change, environmental concerns and human rights issues when making public purchases, buyers with this responsibility will be able to create a good competitive basis that allows Norwegian suppliers in this area that are competitive in China to be able to compete for as long as possible. When it comes to the post of Line Henriette Hemdal from the Christian People's Party, I would just like to make it clear that there are no plural comments from the Committee that point out that we are going to break any EEA legislation. She didn't say that either, but I just want to clarify it. At least that's not how I see what we've been working on in the committee, that it's going to break some legislation. She didn't say that either, but it might be interpreted as if she wanted to go very far. It would like to see the Committee as a whole, and the representative of Mr Syversen followed up here in an interpellant debate and asked if there was any political will in addition to the legal will. I believe that the entire Committee is united in a political will to make good use of the EEA acquis in this area, in order to ensure the best possible use of ideal conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2387	Non-profits have good people who provide good health and social services in Norway. It is a Norwegian advantage that we have such a large non-profit sector. It is a priority within the European countries. It is an advantage that should be reinforced because the performance of NPISHs is evenly above very good. They're cheap to the community, that's the state, and it engages people in unselfish efforts. Very good. The problem for what I am now saying is the EEA Agreement, and the Council of States was aware that a room for action within the EEA law, but not challenging EEA law, i.e. the dynamic EEA agreement is governing the work of NPISHs in Norway, and it is important to gain knowledge about it. There is an overall committee in place to obtain an external legal assessment of the scope of action in order to ensure non-profit actors in the health and social field, including identified different forms of cooperation models. It's all right, but it's non-committal to the government, because it's important to remember what's the government platform. It says that the government believes in principle that: ‘The production of welfare services differs little from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential for competition to become a horizontal element of public activity.» It is as the representative of Trellevik said, and the Central Party takes the government statement seriously at this point. It is therefore logical that the Right and Advance Party are against the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV's proposal for the third paragraph of Section 7a, which reads: «The Ministry shall allow contracting entities to reserve contracts for health and social services for NPISHs under specified conditions.» It is also natural that the Christian People's Party is behind such a law paragraph with their values. But the proposal does not get a majority because of the Left, and I want to quote from the Left's own programme for the period 2013-2017. In Chapter 15.5 Freedom of movement: ‘The day’s competitive and tender system is resource-intensive and does not take into account the specificities and potential of non-profit-making welfare producers. Left will ensure long-term and adapted framework conditions for ideal welfare producers.’ The fact is that the left is failing and is not following up on its own program. The centre party wants to withdraw from the tender, as the representative Toppe said. We want ongoing agreements between NPISHs and government, based on quality. This matter is going to come up again in Stortinget. We're not done with it, we're not done with it. There are two different social views that collide. It's an important debate, and it's interesting to see what's going to happen in the future left hand side, because it's the left hand side that decides during this period, whether one or the other social view gets a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2408	I would like to join in the commendation of the nutrition committee, which has worked out a good code of health and social services, a code that facilitates the continued presence of ideal actors in Norway. When the public meetings of non-profit institutions that say they want to contribute, that they have good services to offer, yes, I think it's a little wise for the public to say: No, thank you, we're going to do this ourselves, we're going to build up our own public offer. Or, no thanks, we have big commercial players who say that they can do this even cheaper than you, so you better see if you can compete them at price, and we'll evaluate it. Of course we should say: Yes, thank you! Of course, we should use the non-profit organisations when they have relevant services of good quality, which people and authorities need. Of course, we should facilitate this with the policy instruments we have, at both national, regional and local level. Non-profit institutions serving households have a clear value base for societal purposes. These organisations are often geared to needs and to sections of the population who are either not provided services or receive services that are not well adapted to needs. The ideal actors often manage a type of trust among users that seems to relate to the particular by being non-profit. Ideal actors often have staff who identify themselves strongly with the objective, are long-term in terms of the development of working methods and competences, and are unbureaucratic and can adapt quickly to new needs. When we use the ideals, we don't have to fear any 'barons' either. Ideally, they work according to cost-effective principles, but they do not operate with profit as a motive. Ideal actors use all economic surplus for the purpose of the activity, nothing is distributed to outside owners in the short or long term. The Christian People's Party has long worked to ensure the framework conditions for the ideals. Resistance to the use of the possibility of reserving contracts for non-profit, market and price pressures, different pension conditions and a system and agreements that provide great unforeseeability for actors who do not have the prerequisites to deal with it – these are some of the key points of what we have fought against. Today, I am pleased that we are adopting legislation to ensure the ideal actors, and we in the Christian People's Party are going to follow closely the further work and practice of this legislation, because we want a welfare society where all good forces are put into practice, and because we are convinced that a strong civil sector gives us a better society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2425	Today, it is such that we can reserve contracts for non-profit actors in the health and social field. An overall committee says that it will be socially appropriate to open up this reservation option – that we have the possibility of reservation today, to continue – and to request that this be implemented in the procurement regulation of the EEA Agreement. It may be done in three ways: through open tendering rounds, by reserving contracts to non-profit-making operators under certain specified conditions and, if desired, by using cooperation models that are also used in the EU. The representative Trellevik has not known me throughout my political life, but there should be no doubt from this speaker that I have never said no to the European Union; I have never said yes to the European Union, but I have been on the EEA line. From the time I was a youth politician and until today, I have believed that, and I believe in the solution Norway has to our relationship with the European Union. I am not going to say that the representative Syversen and I have the same EU position, but that what we are doing today is within EEA law, within the EEA framework, there is no doubt about that. It's a room for action that we stand for and that we're going to work for. So to our tricycles, which depend on whether there should be public tenders for purchases less than NOK 100000. No, a Google search is no reprobability, but a Google search is well what the majority of the Committee on Simplification say when they stress that it would still make sense to do a market probe even in smaller acquisitions – and that's the 100,000-kronor limit we're talking about. A documentation or reprobability is this receipt, usually from the joint purchase, on a bicycle that probably costs only 400 kroner. The repeatability is maintained. That is how it works today, and it should also work in the future in terms of the challenges we face when we are going to spend public money efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2436	460 B.C.E. kr in annual purchases is a huge driving force in society. Nor should we forget that thousands of individuals are responsible for carrying out those purchases. Then there are limits to how many objectives and how many requirements you can actually build in. Nor should we forget that we actually want simplification. We want an effective use of society's resources, and we want a level playing field for those in the market. I think the government has done a very good job, even though the committee has added to some objectives so that the simplification objective was not fully achieved. But then a little bit more why I took the floor: we all know that the Christian People's Party has a genuine interest of non-profit organisations, but the Labour Party and the Center Party's crocodile tears do not really need us, because it's like the representative Hans Olav Syversen said, "You slept for eight years in government and didn't follow what the EU did, so we missed out on the opportunities that an early action had given. What is out of date is that this is being used – the Purchasing Regulation is being used to impose additional costs on taxpayers in terms of taking them back to public operations and trying to squander private money. I react in the way that the word ‘profit’ is used in the debate, and I react in particular to Toppe’s description of getting away from competition ideology. I think the government statement is absolutely brilliant. We should assess this according to the kind of customer satisfaction it is. Who produces the best services according to the requirements of society? Who is the one who has the greatest employee satisfaction? I find it very difficult to see that the private people stand out, even though they have a profit. In fact, we should remember that profit and competition are the main drivers of innovation, innovation and what we all want – improving the services that society needs. That's what we want to promote competition. When the Center Party is so clearly opposed to competition as a tool in the economy, I am very pleased that we are on a completely different platform. There is a clear distinction between the opposition and the government, but I think we have managed to get through new tendering rules in a good way, and I hope the regulations to be developed are developed so that society's resources are used as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2449	Thank you for a good debate so far. There's been a lot of commitment, both for innovation and the environment – that's good. Then it is tempting for me to remember that simplification was a main objective – for the best both for those who buy and for those who deliver. I was challenged about the ideals and I see that representatives from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV now have a great commitment to the ideals. I think that's good. We're going to work on our part, and the representative Syversen challenged me on how to do it. It is then that in the new legislation of the new directives there is a narrower reservation access. It shall be evaluated by 2019. We're going to be active in that process. We will contribute to what is the Norwegian view of this, and argue for an extension. It is this way that, in the context of proceedings before the EEA Court of Justice, so-called preliminary rulings, we promote Norwegian views. It's going to be in front of the rule development, or at least at the same time, in order to make our view apply. I'm also being challenged about apprentices. Where don't we have apprentices? Then my simple answer is: we think we should have apprentices on most contracts. It is not easy to imagine which contracts we should not require apprentices. There is a need for apprentices in the well-known subjects such as construction, etc. But that's how we in the departments have apprentices. You have apprentices today in a number of sectors where you didn't have it a few years ago. Our starting point for the regulatory work is to find out where you don't need to have it, so that we can make it as simple as possible for them to deliver and make sure that they have apprentices in place when they want to deliver to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2460	No one has to be in doubt that we in the Workers' Party are occupied with the non-profit sector, and that commitment is not of a new date, which is what claims are made here. It is only to look at all the posts that the workers' party representatives have had in the hall today, all of which have named the non-profit sector. That the Christian People's Party is also busy with this, I would say is raised above all doubt – from my side at least. It's not true at all that the previous government slept an hour. It can be confirmed by Minister of Industry Mæland from his own department. The previous government is working a lot on this with the volunteers. The political leadership in the department went to Brussels with the ideal actors. The then State Council Rigmor Aasrud himself was in Brussels several times to tell us just how important this is for Norway. On the other hand, we must recognise that the Council of State, Monica Meland, has not been entirely willing to use the space for action as the Sejersted report has shown us. But I'm not going to prolong the debate today into infinity, so I just want to say that it's good that the minister now signals a greater willingness to do this. It's probably the only and biggest news that's come out here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2467	I spent a lot of my main effort on innovation and innovation in public acquisitions law. I will take the floor first of all because of a challenge from the representative of Lundteg. There can be no doubt whatsoever that it has been important for the Left to ensure maximum scope for action in the non-profit sector. That is why in the negotiations we have helped to put in place good comments for the non-profit sector. Among other things, we have assumed that the government must extend as far as possible for conditions that are an advantage to the non-profit sector. I also have expectations of that after the debate we have had today – a good debate. Not least, I think that there are good notes from the Minister of Industry relating to the challenge of taking this as far as possible within the regulatory framework. Finally, this is also about the good process that has been in the Committee. The Christian People's Party has been a strong driver linked to the non-profit sector and to what we have now come up with in the committee. It has helped to draw this closer to what was on the table in the nutrition committee. It belongs in the assessment of this. Then other parties get so dissatisfied with both the Left and the other parties here, but for us and for me it has been very important to think about the scope of the non-profit sector as a whole once we have dealt with the matter in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2479	The debate shows that there is a great deal of consensus in many areas. I have to say I am very pleased that the Council of State underlines, both in the change of line with the representative Syversen, and also now in its last post, that she will do what she can to exploit the space of action towards the ideals, as the committee is concerned about. Otherwise I will refer to the representative ingrid Heggø's posts and the unreasonableness of the claim that the previous government slept an hour. It got Ingrid Hegø out in a good way. And the unreasonable thing we see today also through this treatment – that it is the red-green parties, together with the Christian People's Party, that really go the longest in putting up for the ideals. I am pleased with Ove Trellevik's notion that they will support the transmission of proposal No. 3, and it would be right to have hopes based on the press release it has previously been referred to by Minister of Industry Monica Meland, that neither does she think we can have it this way. That is why I expect the Minister to follow up that transmission proposal in a good way. Finally, thank you for the debate. I believe that the Storting with this attitude today provides a good basis for good public acquisitions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2490	The representative of the Seven said that the previous government has not done a good enough job in securing the non-profit sector in this area. I totally agree with that. It is important to be honest and say what is the fact in the matter. Because the previous government had done a better job, the non-profit sector had been much stronger. But what's happening today is that the non-profit sector is still weakening, and representatives from the Right can smile when I take such a marine report, but one can then go up here on the pulpit and say that one is pleased that the non-profit sector is further weakened, because that's the real right point of view in the case. The big elephant in the room, which we're talking about here, is the EEA Agreement, and there are few that mention something about it. I was very clear in my introduction instead and said that it is essential that representatives of the non-profit sector are aware of how the EEA Agreement overrides – also in their area – the scope of action of the Stortinget. When I asked to speak, it was primarily because of the representative from the Left who said that it is important to ensure the maximum scope for action for the non-profit sector. Yeah, they all agree on that. One has to stretch as far as possible – yes, everyone agrees. One has expectations for today's government – yes, everyone can. And that there were good notes from the Minister of Industry, where she had said that one should go as far as possible – I agree. So the representative from the left said that the other gets to be as dissatisfied with the left as one will. My point was not that I should be dissatisfied with Left or not. What I said was that the party left is failing. And who is the party left is failing? Indeed, they fail their own programme — that is, the problem — because the Left's own programme says that today's competitive and competitive tendering system is resource-intensive. With that, I understand it's too resource-intensive. And it goes on to say that it doesn't take into account the specificities and potential of non-profit-making welfare producers. I see that as an indication of a weakness. And then it goes on to say: ‘Left will ensure long-term and adapted framework conditions for ideal welfare producers.’ With that, I understand that a person wants to do better. And then all the parties, except the Advance Party, the Right and the Left, put forward proposals that can really materialize Left's reference in a sober and careful way – and then the Left Party votes against it. That was my main score. The left hand side fails its own application.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2508	I'll make it pretty short, but I couldn't let it say that the Right wants to weaken the ideals. We have great confidence in the ideals. We think they have strong competitiveness, and we want to give equal conditions to actors, and that society's resources should be used in an optimal way. It's something completely different. So we have a strong trust in the ideal organizations and think they have great competitiveness. Then we appreciated Lundtigen's self-recognition. It seemed to me to be honest, and you should afford to be once in a while, but the representative asked Heggø's posts in a strange light. To that I just want to say that it doesn't help to go with a whole football game down to Brussels if you get there the day after the game was over. Then you have lost, and that is what happened during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2515	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2518	NPISHs have their distinctive character and have a strong societal strength. When I said that the Right wants to weaken the non-profit sector, there is a logical consequence of what the Right does: the Right changes the rules of the game so that they imply that the non-profit sector gets a more demanding and difficult situation. It is this which is one of the problems of the debate here in the Chamber, that the Right wants all good things: everyone should be nice, everyone should be nice, there should be cohesion, there should be joy all over the Chamber – while at the same time promoting proposals that have the logical consequence that the rules of the game should be changed for the benefit of those who run companies, in this context, with the aim of making the most of money. It should be so honest that they say -- it would have given a clearer debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2539	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2546	We are now examining a proposal for a representative asking for a strategy plan with measures to ensure that companies with State ownership comply with the notification of ownership, and also ensuring the maximum degree of transparency related to cash flows and taxes. The starting point for this debate, but also for public ownership, is Meldning. St. 27 for 2013–2014, A diverse and value-creating ownership, which provides the framework for state ownership and ownership. State owners shall be followed up by means of an ownership dialogue with the directors. The Committee emphasises in its position the importance of good dialogue with the board of directors. Furthermore, the Committee states that companies in which the State is the owner have an additional responsibility for conduct of business which is in line with the applicable laws and regulations, but also in line with the other ethical frameworks of the Norwegian community. It is a clear expectation from the committee that the social responsibility that we all have, even where we have state ownership, is firmly anchored in the companies in which the state is inside. Furthermore, a majority of the committee says that the state does not have full ownership of all the companies, really in a few of the companies we're in, and then there are other rules that apply. State ownership principles and exchange rules must apply. It is a prerequisite for all owners to have access to sensitive information at the same time, and therefore the majority of the Committee does not support the creation of a strategy with different measures that are explicit to us as state owners. Furthermore, a majority emphasises that the board of directors have a personal responsibility for developing the company for the best and caring for shareholders’ interests – as all interests – and thus speaks against a strategy plan with actions. There is an overall committee that says that it is a matter of course that what has been adopted in this room, in the ownership notice or in other communications, is followed up both by the government and the boards of the company. A joint committee also says that if you don't comply with what has been said from this room, or in government, the owners of our state companies should tell their owners, which in this instance is the state and the government. I'm assuming that the different parties are dealing with their individual proposals. I address the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved, and allow my colleague from the SV to argue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2565	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2568	This case concerns a proposal from the Labour Party on a strategy to ensure that companies with State ownership comply with the ownership notification and ensure the highest possible degree of openness associated with cash flows and taxes. The starting point for the case is disclosures in the so-called Panama Papers, where it was found that DNB has contributed to customers' creation of post office companies in tax havens. The evening post wrote on 3 April that DNB Luxembourg had arranged for customers to hide their money through mailboxes on Seychelles. We cannot understand this practice in line with the ownership message. It is also an ongoing Økokrim investigation, and it has our control committee hearing on corruption debts against Telenor's subsidiary VimpelCom. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries shall exercise its ownership on behalf of the State in line with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget, and shall be responsible for the fact that the company in which the State is the largest owner is responsible for carrying out its activities in accordance with the laws and regulations in force and for maintaining a high ethical standard in its conduct of business. In Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014, A diverse and valuable ownership, states: «The government expects government-owned companies to work systematically with their social responsibility and to lead in their fields.» The majority therefore expect the company to be a tenant, for example. by discharging its social responsibility, which is the tenth principle of the state principle of good ownership. Here I would like to make the Committee's comments that stress that the State as owner has an additional responsibility to conduct a business that is in line with current laws and regulations, but also in line with the ethical norms of Norwegian society. This also applies to money flows and proper taxation. The Committee also points out that a practice of ‘best in the class’ is decisive and that a non-approach of current business practices in the current country if it would not have been acceptable in Norway. I'm glad that a joint committee points out that this is actually a long-term competitive advantage that helps to build Norway's reputation, which in turn gives new and more opportunities. The issues in question show that we should ensure greater openness and transparency in such cases. That is why we have asked for a strategy. Everyone should have an interest in improving control procedures and better follow-up procedures to ensure that there is no conflict with ownership messages, as well as strengthening work against tax havens and aggressive tax planning and constantly working for greater openness and transparency in transactions and corporate structures. I hereby accept the submission from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2592	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2595	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for untying us through a proposal for a representative that I fell victim to when I saw it, for asking the government to put in place a strategy to follow up the Storting decision reminds us either of the big business or simply of a lack of understanding of role clarifications. Just to have said it first: the ownership message is very central and has almost become an institution in Norway as the state is as big a owner as it is. That's where we clarify our expectations for the companies. I think that's a huge advantage, especially in all those companies where we don't sit as sole owners. And we must never forget that we're not the sole owner of many of the companies we're discussing. The predictability given by the ownership announcement and given by the state's ownership, and the long-term nature it gives, is important, both for the companies, for employees, for customers, for lenders, for everything, and it's very important that we stick to those principles. Then it becomes a little strange that it is suggested that the government should put in place a strategy to follow up the decision of the Storting, because in our parliamentary system this is actually the government's task. It's the Stortinge that decides, and then it's the government that's going to do it. And if you don't trust them to do it the right way, you get to do it. Then, in the worst case, it ends up as a mistrust proposal to the government, but at least one will have to take up a discussion in the landfill, not ask the government to write a separate strategy for it. It is quite obvious that the government is following the strategy adopted by the Storting. Then we've been involved in the ten principles of good ownership of the state. It also states that the government governs through the general meeting, and that the general meeting elects the board of directors, who are then responsible for developing the company in the best possible way. And it is quite right, as the case-rapporteur also said, that the individual representative of the board is not representative of individuals into the board. You have an independent, personal responsibility to develop the companies in the best possible way. Then you also have a personal responsibility to follow up what is expected of the owners. And that's exactly what's the big advantage of the ownership announcement, because there's not only the state clear to all the other co-owners, but you're also clear to the board of directors as to what you think the board should focus on, and how the companies should evolve. That is why I strongly supported the proposal when it came. When the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV write in the setting that it is difficult to identify what information has been available, and at what time, in the different systems, it is precisely a consequence of the responsibilities we have, and that you cannot run around with all kinds of information between the different companies without conflicting with the stock exchange regulations and the way we want to manage the companies, and allow sensitive information to flow. It is the responsibility of the companies and the board of directors to inform the owner if you feel that you are at odds with Norwegian law. All companies in Norway are expected to comply with Norwegian law and ownership notification. That is why I think this proposal is superfluous. You would rather have a discussion about the extent to which you think the government is following up. I have great confidence that the government will follow up. I know that you follow up on the government's announcement of ownership and the expectations written there, in ownership dialogue with the companies, and you follow it up to the general meeting when it comes to sensitive information that cannot be handled otherwise than that it must happen where all the owners are. So once again, it is good that the proposal came no longer than to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2612	The State is a major owner and has direct ownership of 70 companies at a value of less than 700 billion. kr. These are managed through different departments. The recipe for good state ownership is that it is carried out in a predictable and professional manner, within the framework of Norwegian company law and other laws in the rest of the world. Norwegian business, what is owned by the private, the public or both, must be based on ethical guidelines and transparency. It is absolutely central to the conditions of competition in the market and a healthy business environment that companies with the largest ownership by the State operate under the laws and regulations laid down. State ownership must be managed responsibly and companies must work specifically to discharge their social responsibilities. The revelations related to Panama Papers, where about 11.5 million documents were leaked, and hidden assets were exposed, made the debate about tax havens and money flows very topical. This case is possibly the largest of its kind in view of the width of documents and the scope of the case. It is therefore important to raise a debate on the transparency of tax information and the degree to which OECD tax management guidelines are followed. Let me also add that in the debate after Panama Papers, it was created an impression that all the businesses, especially the Norwegians, that had activity in Panama, Cayman Islands, Bermuda or other countries, had activity that was linked to criminal activity. It's a gross misinterpretation. However, I am pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee believes that the State has a particular responsibility for companies in which the State is the largest owner, operates under the laws and regulations applicable, and maintains a high ethical standard. According to the ownership announcement, it is important that the government continuously and systematically carry out its corporate social responsibility based on good ownership policy and with transparency. In this context, of course, there is a great deal of responsibility for the governments of the companies. It is the responsibility of the boards to inform the owner if the ethical conduct of business is not followed, through good discussions with the owner, who is the Council of State, and to follow up what is expressed in the ownership notification. It has been acknowledged that the expectations adopted by the Storting and laid down in the ownership notification are a central part of the follow-up to the companies and the expectations of the State as the largest owner. In our view, it is not necessary to present a strategy for the Storting with concrete measures to prevent companies where the state is the largest owner from exercising the transparency required in the ownership notification. In this case, it will only be a strategy to follow the strategy – more bureaucracy, less action. The strategy has emerged clearly in the ownership message, which is actually a strategy, and which was dealt with in this room some time ago. It is, however, gratifying that a unanimous committee believes that companies whose country is the largest owner should be the best in the class. It was supposed to be missing, too. The government has handled these matters relating to Panama Papers in an excellent way and has set an example of how unacceptable this business conduct is. The Council of State will probably also have a meeting next week with the directors of the state companies, as far as I know, and it would probably not surprise anyone in this room if there was a theme there as well. In cases where it is known that corruption has been committed or any other cause of complaint or crime, this government has taken it most seriously. Corruption is a violation of Norwegian law and shall not occur. As the government has clearly shown, responsible and good ownership management involves, among other things. to organise the ownership of the country in such a way that the different roles of the country are properly distinguished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2627	The centre party is excited that the state is a major owner of important Norwegian companies. It is an important tool to safeguard Norwegian ownership. I would also like to believe that the Council of State appreciates being allowed to discuss state ownership with the members of the Business Committee, and not just with the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is important that we base ownership communication and the ten principles of state ownership in ownership policy. Of course, transparency about cash flows and taxes is also important. One should strive for the greatest possible transparency in all areas. So to the principles that apply: I think it's important to have self-confidence in meeting ownership principles. That, I believe, means that one must be able to discuss state ownership and have a public debate on it, without one coming at any time to say that it is contrary to ownership policy and ownership principles. It also means that you have to recognize that these principles are not stoned, and that they change over time. I feel that state ownership policy is in constant development, and that it is evolving day by day. Society is changing, follow-up is changing. I understand, of course, that the government parties then need to say that things are better now than they were under eight red-green years. It's an oral cavity that seems to go on autopilot. I believe that this has been a natural development. To the concrete proposals that the Central Party will not support in this matter: I would like to give a brief reason why we do not. One is that we believe that what is contained in the Workers' Party's proposal should be followed up, and that can be done without presenting a separate strategy. As regards proposal No: 2, from Christian People's Party and SV, I find it strange that the government should look after itself. Taking care is something you often do with others. Furthermore, I believe that what is contained in the proposal is too mild – that unethical tax practices and tax evasion are just a point to follow up in the ownership dialogue. It is enough that especially in situations where there is tax evasion of a certain extent, and it is known to the company, we have come past the stage of dialogue. The same applies to proposal No. 3: It establishes a naturality and something that one expects the Council of State in its follow-up to follow up further. But I think it's an important discussion. There has been a process in the committee, and there will certainly be new bad issues in which the state is involved as owner. We have to deal with them. It is essential that a teacher of them, so that future ownership policies become better than yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2646	I noticed that the representative Pollestad skipped proposal No. 4, which is perhaps the most important of the suggestions we make. But I'll come back to that. We have an ownership message with an important principle – many have been within them – but the follow-up is the question of whether it has been just as good. We've had a series of issues about state-owned companies that have been involved in very unfortunate situations, which have made the Minister of Industry have had a slightly more active month in areas where she might have preferred to see that she didn't need to be active. It may seem that the principle is working, but in practice the company is doing business unhindered. Let me take an input through tax to depict this field. A central principle of Norwegian tax legislation is that taxation and tax access should take place where value creation takes place. The same principle underlies all international work against aggressive tax planning and international tax evasion. SV believes the same principle should also apply to Norwegian state-owned companies. That is the basis for proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Those who participate in or facilitate aggressive tax planning make tax receipts from others. Such behavior has great negative effects and is unethical. It should therefore be a minimum objective that state-owned companies integrate this whole idea into their business and investment strategies. Most of the corruption cases we have had recently related to Norwegian state-owned companies have involved transactions via closed jurisdictions. Luxleaks and Panama Papers show exactly the same thing. Closed jurisdictions, known as tax havens, are used to finance, among other things. illicit activities such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings, circumvention of UN-approved economic sanctions, human rights. It can't be in Norway's interest to have a business there. SV has never said that those who have business associated with closed jurisdictions are automatically criminals, but we say that we can't actually know. There's a big difference. If we are to be sure that Norwegian state-owned companies act according to Norwegian values and standards, the taxation must be done where the value creation takes place, i.e. one does not move it to other places – and at least not to closed jurisdictions. This is why SV's most important proposal in this case is No. 4, which – unlikelyly – we stand alone about, ‘that all state-owned companies move their subsidiaries away from closed jurisdictions’. The other two proposals are in common with the Christian People's Party. They are about important steps towards more systematic alerting – as we know to be very important – reporting and follow-up by Norwegian authorities. These two proposals are soft, maybe we can call them, but at the same time very important for us to get information in the light, and that we know that there is a dynamic between owners and companies. We also support the Workers' Party's proposal for a greater review of how state-owned companies work on these things, how governments follow it, and a strategy for more systematic work on this. We are in favour of that proposal too, but since the proposal was put into place so late in the process, we or some others in the committee did not have the opportunity to enter into it during the committee procedure. I will deal with the proposal that we have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2669	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2673	Let me first say that transparency about cash flows is an important and demanding topic. We have therefore formulated clear expectations in the ownership notice about this, to which a total increase has joined. Money flows are a broad concept, covering both ordinary business activities, transactions, taxes and the ultimate possibility of corruption and tax evasion. Therefore, the means of achieving transparency of financial flows must be both to contribute to effective regulation nationally, internationally and to the transparency of reporting by companies themselves. I feel that we agree on the framework of state ownership, including how the state should exercise its ownership. The broad political consensus over several major periods is a strength of Norwegian state ownership. We follow up companies through ongoing dialogue and reporting. Deceptive governments have over time developed a form of work for the follow-up of government expectations to the work of governments in the field of social responsibility. These expectations are evident from the ownership message, which is broadly anchored in the Stortinget. Let me, among other things. mention: Of course, all directors are expected to have been thoroughly involved in the ownership message. The state has a regular ownership dialogue throughout the year, meeting where social responsibility is on the agenda, if necessary. We also expect companies' directors to report on significant issues in the social responsibility area in the ownership dialogue and in their annual reports. We have a follow-up or explain-principle. It implies that the Boards are expected to explain why, if the companies deviate from the expectations of the State, for which there may in some cases be grounds. Social responsibility is the theme of seminars and training that we organise for directors and new board members. I have a meeting next week with all the directors on anti-corruption and other business ethics issues, and I held a similar meeting in 2014. The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the company, for taking current business decisions and for following up the expectations expressed by the State through the ownership notification. The State which holds its interests through the general meeting and by ensuring that the companies have a well-composed and competent board of directors. We're clear on our expectations, and we're following these up, but as owner, we don't control the companies. That's what other authorities do, e.g. Financial supervision and tax authorities. We regularly work to further develop government expectations in the area of social responsibility and how these are followed up in the ownership dialogue. In the last ownership message, we are among others. clear on the responsibilities of the Management Board in the field and on the principle of materiality. More specific expectations of anti-corruption work were also established. We also have involvement with PwC this spring. to advise on our follow-up to the ownership message and expectations of anti-corruption work. These include: in order to increase the systematicity of the follow-up of the Department. This important theme is also highly relevant to international cooperation and legislation. International cooperation and the development of good regulation are probably the main means of ensuring transparency of money flows and taxes. The government has referred to the work done in this area in the recent financial communication. Extensive international efforts are being made to prevent tax evasion and the Norwegian authorities have had an active driving role in the work for a number of years. Norway currently has a wide network of tax agreements and other administrative assistance agreements between tax authorities, all of which facilitate the exchange of information for tax purposes. In May 2016, the government promoted a legislative proposal that obliges large multinational groups to deliver a country-by-country report for tax purposes to the tax authorities. In July 2014, the OECD adopted a new standard for automatic exchange of financial account information for tax purposes and Norway has signed it. There are measures covering the whole of business and not just companies owned by the country. I believe that we have an active and thorough approach to our ownership follow-up in social responsibility, both through the communication of ownership and in the follow-up to it. At the same time, we're always concerned about improving. I believe that the most important work in this area is through international cooperation and the exchange of rules. Here Norway is an active driver, and work is a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2710	I notice that none of the proposers for this case are here in the Chamber. Then SV has to take the opposition role in this matter. There is an explicit fight against tax havens where Norway has signed internationally, and for which Norway is going in the brink. Many of the problems and issues we have had in recent years have been linked to just closed jurisdictions. What is the reason why a state-owned company cannot be required not to operate in closed jurisdictions? What is the problem with setting such a requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2717	There are at least three main challenges. One is that we're going to be professional owners. Companies where the State is on the ownership side should have the same rules to deal with as other companies, i.e. state-owned companies, as well as private-owned companies. Secondly, it is not that we are sole owners of companies, and thirdly, we want a level playing field internationally. We don't want companies to run away from Norway because we have strange demands. There are many reasons why we should not be subject to rules other than the other country and private companies have, but that does not mean that we are not actively working on it. We are clear about what we expect from companies where the state is on the owner's side, about how they act in terms of transparency about cash flows and about entering into corporate structures in countries with which we do not have tax agreements. The ownership message is more than clear about what our expectations are, and we actively follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2722	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2738	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2745	Today, we decide to impose a police record on all those who are going to work, or who are going to change jobs, and to provide services in the municipal health and care services. This is a very important decision, which will contribute to and strengthen the security of several highly vulnerable people who are totally dependent on being able to trust those who will help them in their everyday lives. The reason why we are adopting this introduction today is that unfortunately we have seen more examples of both violence, assault and financial crime against people who cannot defend themselves. It seems like a small paradox to me that in the case of children and young people, police clearance has been required for a long time, but for the elderly, it is not that dangerous. It is therefore very good that this comes into place today. I know that someone will claim that these people will still be at risk of being subjected to violence, assault, etc., but I do believe that this will be far better than continuing as we have done today, with skyscrapers for what is happening out there. In any case, it means checking up everyone who is hired to prevent people who have been convicted from continuing to work with vulnerable people. It is important to bear in mind that the vast majority of those who have spoken about the bill have been very positive. In particular, patient and user organisations have been very positive about introducing the bill. But it's good to note that as late as 2013 the Workers' Party voted this proposal down. I am therefore very pleased that today there is a unanimous committee that ends up on the proposal. I would also like to point out that the bill states that, in addition to information contained in a pediatric health certificate, such as any intention or charge, this police certificate shall contain information on physical incrimination, bodily injury, threats, deprivation of liberty, winning crimes and fraud, which also strengthens the security of those who need these services in the future. I would also like to point out that several aspects have been assessed in connection with the introduction that can be challenging. It's about refugees. The issue of living in Norway is a challenge, because many do not have long living time and there is a Norwegian police record on which to base. We believe that this is a total of important measures for the individual who is dependent on help to look after himself, to wash his house or to go to the store. That is the security of these people this decision is actually about. I believe that if this is necessary, the other members of the Committee will explain any comments they may have. After working on this issue for many years, I am very pleased that this requirement will now finally be met, for the benefit of all those who have wanted such a claim, and who believe that such a proposal should have been put in place long ago. I would also like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in the matter, and because we are now there, in fact, that there is a unanimous proposal on which we are based today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2764	The Workers' Party supports the proposal made in this proposal to require police certification for personnel providing municipal health and care services. This is a matter that has been discussed continuously for a number of years. In connection with Stortinget's treatment of Prop. 91 L for 2010–2011, Law on Municipal Health and Care Services, the Committee stated that serious sick, elderly, demented, mentally ill and other patient groups may also have problems in caring for their own interests and protecting themselves from abuses, both physical and psychological as well as economic. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Right, then asked that the issue of introducing a police record for employment was also considered in this area. The aim of this bill is to ensure the safety of a very vulnerable group of people, many of whom depend entirely on good care and care services. Today, as the rapporteur said, police clearance is required for people working with children and young people, and we are now assuming that this is the same type of requirement that will apply with regard to police attestations for employees in health and care services. In the past, it has been argued that demands for police clearance will exclude many from the labour market, and that such a requirement can prevent re-socialisation, for example. by people who have served a punishment and who have a strong desire to move on in life. I think that's the argument you need to understand and take seriously. We also see that the proposition does not address, or mention, whether refugees, immigrants and asylum seekers are faced with a difficult situation with demands for a police record, given that their background is unknown. As the Trade Union stressed in its consultation response to the Committee, we want, and depending on, this group to be able to train and take jobs in the health and care sector. I would like to ask the Ministry to take a closer look at this dimension of the proposal – both to ensure the safety of vulnerable patient and user groups, and to assess people who do not have the opportunity to obtain a certificate by other means. In the hearing, the Trade Union and others also reminded them that only a few offences are reported, prosecuted and punished. They underlined that a police record does not capture infringements, for example: outside the borders of the country. Therefore, good internal control and quality assurance are very important in preventing abuse and violence and in providing good quality and safety in municipal health and care services. This must be in addition to the requirement for a police record, so that it does not provide false security, which has been the objection for a long time, but which we do not believe is trumpling today's proposal on a police certificate. A police record can never replace good employment practices, a well-functioning internal control system, guidance and follow-up of employees. These are some of the hearing bodies that have underlined, inter alia: The Legislature and several municipalities. However, the Labour Party supports the proposals in the proposal to require police clearance for employees in the municipal health and care services, as is the case today for those who are going to work with children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2779	We are examining today the government's proposal to amend several paragraphs in two laws to introduce requirements on police certification for personnel required to provide services under the Health and Care Services Act in municipalities. This applies to that law as well as to the Health Personnel Act. The requirement for a police record in the municipal health service shall provide greater security for those receiving such services and their dependants. Such a certificate is, of course, no guarantee, but will contribute to the future prevention of persons who are convicted of conditions making them unfit for service. A Norwegian police certificate will initially only provide information on criminal offences for the period during which a person has been registered as resident in Norway. This means that for foreigners with short registered residence, Norwegian police will have limited value. This is also the law applicable to the requirement of child care certificates today, and, as Hoksrud pointed out, it is really strange that there have been stricter requirements there than in the rest of the municipal health service. It is a challenge not only for health and care services, but also for all other sectors where police certification is required, including voluntary organisations, that only conditions in Norway will apply in such a certificate. The safety and security of patients and users of health and care services also includes refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants who need to receive such services. Unemphasizing the safety and safety of healthcare services may weaken confidence in the services and may cause vulnerable people to refuse to ask for services they need. I would like to make it clear that such certificates are a step on the way, but no guarantee. This is one of many measures to ensure that patients and users of municipal health and care services are guaranteed safe, good and dignified services. Again, there is reason to recall one of the principles of the rule of law, that anyone who has been charged with a criminal offence should be presumed innocent until proven guilty. At the same time, once you have served your sentence, you should have the opportunity to start over. These matters are duly highlighted in the proposal and a unanimous committee supports the government's conclusions. The proposal applies only to new jobs and those who change jobs, and thus the many competent local health service staff do not have to wait until tomorrow to get a police record. Many people have been standing there for a long time, and there is particular reason to congratulate the Progress Party when we have come as far as this, namely to decide to introduce demands for police certification in the municipal health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2800	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good way to draw the matter through the committee. Being allowed to work with seriously ill, elderly, demented, mentally ill and other patient groups is a trust, and a trust that the person working there must prove worthy. Many of these patient groups have particular problems in caring for their own interests and protecting themselves from abuse, both physically and psychologically and financially. To require police certification for all personnel required to provide services under the Health and Care Act, irrespective of the patient or user groups to which they are to provide services, supports the Christian People's Party in full, and also that it is not up to each municipality to decide whether they want this. But this is just one of several measures that are needed to ensure that patients and users have confidence in service equipment personnel. Trust and security are something we actually get, and trust and security for those you are totally dependent on because you can't do things yourself, is central to good care and care. Many patients and users may be totally dependent on others because of age, illness or disability, which means that they need the protection of those performing the service to present a police certificate now. Lying and being totally dependent on others means that you also have to be able to trust those who come either into your own home or into the room where you live, in a nursing home or in a nursing home. The Christian People's Party supports, as the rest of the Committee, the proposal that this should be a mandatory rather than a voluntary arrangement. That is why we support the vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2811	The bill that Stortinget is dealing with today promotes important patient and user interests. The proposal requires all persons providing municipal health and care services to provide police clearance, irrespective of the patient or user group to which the recipient belongs. The aim is to create security and trust. Safe and trusting patients and users are essential for creating the patient’s health and care service. Health and care services are a service for everyone. All residents of a municipality will need health and care services at one time or another during their lifetime. Patients and users are often dependent on the service provider and will be in a more or less vulnerable situation. Many people may have problems caring for their own interests and protecting themselves from abuse. There are hardly many sectors in society where close contact between two people is as great as between the provider and the recipient of healthcare services. Police certification requirements can help patients and users to increase their safety and trust that the service provider will not harm them in any way. Therefore, the attention of patients and users has been central to the work on the legislative proposal. Comments on a police certificate are sensitive information. For the sake of previous convictions, the proposal requires that the police record should mention only specific offences to which patients and users can easily be exposed and against which they should be protected. This includes, inter alia: rape, various forms of coercion, physical detachment, theft and subsidence. Minor infringements shall only be recorded for a limited period of time. Penalties of up to six months of unconditional imprisonment shall, for example, include: not be disclosed for more than three years after the date of the judgment or order. This may include, inter alia: include theft and subsidence. When the municipality or other employer receives a police certificate with comments, they must assess whether the comments make the person feel unfit for the job. An observation of the police record will not automatically entail a professional ban. If there is reason to believe that patients and users can trust and trust him, a statement of a police certificate shall not prevent him from being hired. For society as a whole, it is important that people who have previously been punished and settled separately can return to work. Many criminal acts are not being prosecuted or solved. A police record will only provide information on criminal offences from the period during which a person has been registered as resident in Norway. A police record will not be able to say anything about the reputation of people from their time outside Norway. Therefore, a police record without comments does not guarantee that he has never committed a criminal offence or that he will not commit a criminal offence in the future. On the other hand, it can be assumed that a number of persons convicted of a criminal offence can never imagine committing a criminal offence again. The submission of a police record in the municipal health and care services is therefore only one of several measures to ensure the trust of patients and users in the service. I would like to express my satisfaction at the Committee's emphasis on the importance of ensuring that service providers also have good internal control procedures, quality systems and good practices in the recruitment processes. It is absolutely essential that municipal health and care managers carry out good recruitment processes, check references and not lean unilaterally on what is registered in public registers or, for example, on what is registered in public registers. – in this context – police record. There are too many examples of people who have been hired who should not have been employed, and where this could have been revealed simply by the fact that the employer had done it as one really expects of an employer when employing people in such important jobs, and who require so much trust in dealing with patients and users. However, I am pleased that the municipalities and the service through this legislative decision will have an additional tool in that work. I am very pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee has unanimously joined the government's proposals. Safe patients and users who trust service providers are crucial in order to provide the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2833	I am very pleased that both the Council of State, the Proposition, the comments and several of the representatives here in this debate underline the importance of having control procedures outside the police record. We've had some grotesque events earlier this year with assaults in several kindergartens carried out by people who had a police record. We're all concerned about it, and I understand that the Council of State is also. The question is: does the Council of State see that there may be a need to review national procedures to ensure that this police certificate is not a source of false security, i.e. the other tools you need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2840	We now have an extended national toolkit for municipalities that employ people in this service through the authorisation that one has, through the assessment that one might find in oversight cases, etc., and from now on through this police certificate. What I think is important is that one does, as the Committee believes, that one way or another, underlines that all the national tools that a user does not become a resting place for those who serve. For example, this is a case in point. on language examinations, which are now much more widely introduced as a systematic part of the basis for obtaining authorisation. One has to make an independent assessment, for example: of the language skills of authorised health professionals who have undergone a language test, because the language is essential for the provision of a safe and secure health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2847	I thank you for a good response on important measures. This is authorisation for people who come from a foreign education, but we have seen, as in these cases, that ordinary Norwegian citizens – born and raised in Norway – with police record in their pocket have committed serious abuses against children and gone under the radar for the review they might have had of their history before they were hired. Does the Council see that perhaps an extra pressure should be introduced here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2855	I believe that this is a good measure, but I would like to stress that it is not like everyone who is hired has a story before they do an assault. That's why, as I stressed in my post, it's not enough to check a person's conduct, a person has to have good internal control systems and a good overview of what's going on in his own services. It is important to ensure a more permanent manning and avoid too much temporary use and too much subdivision, so that one has a solid and more permanent manning in these services. It's also part of quality assurance that this is not going to happen. But in this area, there's nothing that's ever going to be 100 pst. I'm sure. Then there must be good routines to catch up when something is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2862	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2879	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2886	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined the Government's proposal to clarify patients' right to a hospital or accommodation specifically arranged for services of good luck. The Government proposes to clarify the right to the care and care of lucky people in the Patient and User Rights Act and a corresponding obligation under the Health and Care Services Act for municipalities to provide such services. The government has stressed in the legislative proposal that a desire for better predictability and more transparency in the allocation process. National award criteria will be an important instrument to contribute to this. The Government will propose national criteria once experience has been gained with the municipal criteria and the use of national criteria in the pilot scheme for state funding of care services. However, until national criteria are in place, each municipality must, on the basis of its overall offer, develop long-term housing criteria in hospital or similar housing. I would like to stress that these criteria cannot be designed in such a way that the municipality limits the individual patient’s or user’s right to good luck. The amendment also implies an obligation for municipalities to keep waiting lists – this in order to ensure a uniform overview of persons who have been decided to qualify for long-term employment in municipalities but who can, with proper help, live at home while waiting for employment. There were few participants in the Committee's open consultation on the matter, but with regard to the government's consultation proposal, it was a majority who felt that the legislative proposal was superfluous because it was believed that the right was already enshrined in today's legislation. There were also hearing bodies which considered that clarification of the existing legal right was positive for users of the service. The Committee shares this view. The parties of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left are voting today for the government's proposal to amend the law that clarifies the right to care for happiness. The majority believe this is important for patients, users and relatives to feel more confident that the municipality is obliged to provide such a service when the need arises. By adopting the amendment of the law, we state that it is the individual’s need for a hospitalised place – not if the municipality has room – that will determine whether a person is given a decision or not. Today, many people feel that the right to the care of good luck is a right that really does not exist. The threshold for having a good day's care in the municipality may vary depending on whether the municipality has room or not. It helps to create differences in patient treatment. Now we're changing this unfair practice. Those who need a sick home place but who can wait some time at home with more help until there is room for work should now be given a decision and put on a waiting list. For us in the right, this is an important brand day. The new law will significantly strengthen the rights of caregivers in practice. It will oblige municipalities to fulfil their obligations more strongly than today, and it makes it quite clear that all those in need of care will be given an assessment of the level of proper care that is not linked to the availability of the municipality there and then. It is also a major change that transparency on criteria and waiting lists is established. It creates the necessary security and predictability for those who are most ill in our municipalities. The Labour Party and the Center Party today vote against a statutory right to the care of those who are too sick to be able to care for at home. Rightly, the struggle for patients' rights has never been the taboo of these parties, but that in this case, too, they choose the side of the system and not the sickest elderly patients, is almost impossible to understand. The Labour Party and the Centre also refuse to allow municipalities to set up waiting lists, which will give an important picture of whether the municipality has sufficient capacity and can help support key policy priorities for increased development. Fortunately, the majority of the Storting is on the patient's side in this case. I think many sick, nurturing and their relatives remember that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2909	Today we are dealing with a matter that has encountered strong resistance from so saying all the hearing bodies that have spoken out – and there are quite a few. The Ministry of Health and Health sent out a consultation note last autumn on legislative proposals for the care sector as expressed in the present proposal, including: on the right of residence in nursing homes and the obligation for municipalities to keep waiting lists. An overwhelming majority of the hearing bodies, including: The central association of municipalities, the Health Directorate, the Association of Lawyers, the Care Board, the Norwegian Nursing Association, individual municipalities and not least the country's patient and user representatives are very negative to the bill. Care light says this: ‘The proposals for new legal provisions are unnecessary, inappropriate and sometimes impossible to implement, and will also provide less legal certainty for patients and users and additional work and increased costs for municipalities. Care light AS therefore does not support any of the proposed legislative changes.» It is an unusually strong opinion, and it is in line with what has been recorded by many hearing bodies. The Labour Party has listened carefully to these objections, and we will underline the fact that all the hearing bodies – as well as the Ministry of Health and Welfare itself – are bringing to the fore: that the right to necessary health care in the form of a sick place or a nursing home is already being regulated today when this is the proper level. So the rights that the bill aims to introduce are already present today in the form of the law. If an elderly person needs sick leave and there is no free space, the municipality shall, according to current legislation, provide equivalent home-based services or assistance in other accommodation until hospital accommodation can be offered. Municipalities also have a duty to ensure that the law is handled properly and properly and that the proceedings are properly conducted. The County Council is then the Board of Appeal for those receiving municipal care services. I would like to point out that good care services are provided throughout the country, and there are many older people who receive services that provide good and positive feedback. However, it is a challenge to find the right measures, which offset some of the significant differences we see between municipalities, with a view to improving the quality of care services in general. Here, we must dare to think new and forward-looking, where we both raise the preventive perspective and look at how we can strengthen the entire care chain – by building more lucky places, facilitating other forms of housing and strengthening home services. Such a forward-looking care policy was exemplified in the main message of care of the morning, presented by the Stoltenberg II government in 2013, to which this government often refers. These perspectives are underlined by several municipalities, including civil society. Asker municipality in Akershus, which is also a Right-Handed municipality, gives a very precise character in its opinion: ‘It is thus seen as not being complete that the legislation proposes to highlight separate parts of the care chain. By adding a separate rightful provision on lucky day services, we believe it can be seen as a step backwards in the development of health and care services.’ In the municipality of Hurdal, the rapporteur, from the left, says the following: ‘Imagining the creation of a new right without creating a new right would be to mislead the population and could contribute to an increase in the level of conflict in a vulnerable time for patients and users.’ We in the Workers' Party would stress that there must be an explicit objective that older people who receive care should be able to decide for themselves over parts of the services received, within defined frameworks. Therefore, we must red tape the care of the elderly and give greater responsibilities and trust to the staff. Greater confidence in the professional perspective and less control are important keywords for success. The present proposition also deals with rights issues related to waiting lists and statutory national criteria, which I do not have time to mention here. I just think it's a little sad that we're going to stand on this pulpit and accuse each other of not being concerned with the elderly and of good care and care. I think my political opponents are just as concerned about it as I am, but we choose different. The Labour Party does not seem to be able to support any of the legislative proposals submitted in the proposal, but we are promoting two proposals together with the Centre Party, and I am addressing those proposals here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2940	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2943	The representative, Wilhelmsen Trøen, has explained very well what this is all about. It's about making it even more clear what's in the law today, about actually having some rights, and that you have some criteria for how to follow this up. Then it's a little interesting to hear the previous speaker, who really talks strongly against it, while she says that this is already there today, at least the law. It's a little bit special that you're very opposed to what you think is already there, so it's a little unnecessary to do this. This is not superfluous. It's just traveling around the country a little bit, you see how things stand in many places. Today we have approx. 428 municipalities – I say ‘approx.’ because there are some things happening there, but officially there are still 428 municipalities, and I have to make sure that I do not say anything wrong. But that also means that there are so many different criteria for whether or not you get a sick home place, and what criteria are used to whether you get a sick home place or not, or luck care, for that matter. I know from my own municipality and from many municipalities that when the pressure gets high, the threshold is raised because when you get a good day's care, while if the pressure is a little lower, the possibility is also a little bigger to get a sick home or a lucky day's entertainment space. It's about making sure that you now make it clear that you have some criteria in place to ensure that you have both the transparency and the ability to know which criteria are used, if you complain that you don't get the services you think you should get. So this is very good. I was going to like FrP's, you might have taken it a little bit longer, but I think it's really great what the government has now come with, and that's a very important step in the right direction. When the representative Knutsen says that everyone is opposed, it's just to do a little search on Quasir or Google, you can see that the senior case, which has fought for this long, just before the 2013 elections, delivered 10,000 signatures asking for this to be legalised. That's what this government is now doing, you make it clear. In addition, we get waiting lists in place. I find it sad that the Labour Party does not agree that it is important to know how many there are out there that actually need it, because now there are largely predictions, and then the individual municipality does not have a waiting list or an overview of how it actually stands. Then you may not have a full overview of which services you should increase in order to ensure that all those who need care in the municipality actually get it. This is about predictability, and it's a follow-up to what this government is doing. Under the previous government, there was an average of 35 pst. in grants for the construction of nursing homes, the provision of day care facilities. This government increased it to 50 pst. on average, and it shows that you are concerned that those who need a care offer are going to get the care they need. It also means that you have to arrange for more offers and a variety of offers, which means that if you need a nursing home, you get it, and if you need a nursing home, you have to get the opportunity to do so and actually know that you have a decision that says you have a right to do so, regardless of whether the municipality can afford it, or whether the municipality's criteria are no longer allowed to be liquid. For now, the criteria have to be there so that you know what you're dealing with, and I think that's very good for the patients. It's kind of nice to hear the Workers' Party say they want less control, less control and not want these national criteria, because they obviously think it works very well out there. Yes, in very many municipalities it is very good. I always think it is important to point out that there are amazingly many beautiful people standing on every single day for us to provide very good care services and care services to the elderly and the sick who need it. But it is unfortunately also so that there are some places where it is not so good. Experience that people say they can't do any more because they don't get the offer they need is sad, and that's not the way it should be. It's unworthy. That is why I am very pleased with the proposal that the majority is going to vote for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2958	For a few years back we gave in this hall a right to the smallest in our country. It meant that we got a formidable construction of kindergartens. Today, we are debating proposals that deal with the rights of the sickest elderly and nurturing. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the sickest elderly people will be safe to get an offer for a good day's place or a sick home when they need it. Today, the threshold may seem incredibly high in some places. That is why the Christian People's Party wants to legislate on the right to hospitalization in the event of medical needs and that an individual and comprehensive assessment of the individual's situation should be taken into account. The provision of a health care centre and the services of a lucky day cannot depend on the municipality or the personal economy of the individual. There must be an individual's need for a hospitalisation site to be determined. Municipalities must be committed more strongly than they are today to fulfil their obligations. It is also important that efforts in municipalities to build more sites are intensified. There hasn't been too much construction of nursing homes in the last decade. The Christian People's Party supports the introduction of a requirement for waiting lists. Waiting lists provide predictability and give a comprehensive overview of the number of people waiting for hospital or lucky day services in Norway. Today we know too little about the situation. Through transparency around waiting lists, we can see the size of the needs and then prioritise them both in municipalities and nationally. We know that the medical coverage in the hospital is one doctor per 1.3 patients, while in the hospital it is an average of 130 patients. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned with the contents of the hospital place. Healing is a necessary good for the patient, and the Christian People's Party proposed 500 million. kr extra in the 2016 budget. This is about the quality of the person who's going to get the space. A good and worthy old age when health fails is about the content of care. We must ensure that the sickest elderly in nursing homes are cared for as whole people. Access to fresh air, the ability to move, good nutrition, meaningful content such as culture and activity is something most of us take for granted. It's not like that for everyone. Health professionals report that they hardly have time for the most necessary care. Many sick elderly ones are undernourished in meaningful activities as well as in good nutrition. Nor is it unusual that demented patients in Norwegian nursing homes do not get fresh air more than a few times a year. This is something very few patient groups had found themselves in. Yes, the Christian People's Party agrees that much works very well in Norwegian care for the elderly. But it's like marriage, things can still get better even if you have a good marriage. We must never settle for the fact that things are good enough in Norwegian care for the elderly. The Christian People's Party wants an offensive commitment to prevention measures that strengthen the quality of life for the elderly. That is why we are pleased with the double grant received by the senior centres in the last year's revised budget. We are pleased that the Minister of Health has just announced that everyone in 75 years of age will have a home visit. It proposed Christian People's Party last summer. This is very important to see where the need is, so that we can have those that actually need it on the list. That's why the Christian People's Party is happy to be part of and support this bill. It is important for our sickest elderly, and it is important for our priorities as politicians locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e2977	Rarely has the expression ‘Caesar’s new clothes’ fit better than in this case. The government has proposed changes to the law to ensure the right of residence in the hospital or the corresponding housing specifically directed towards day-to-day services, as well as criteria and waiting lists. The proposal has met strong resistance in the hearing. An overwhelming multiple is very negative to the proposal. It shall apply, inter alia, to: The Medical Association, KS, Health Directorate, Lawyers' Association, Norwegian Nurses' Association, many municipalities and not least the country's patient and user housing. The proposals are referred to as: ‘unnecessary, inappropriate and sometimes impossible to implement, and will also provide less legal certainty for patients and users and additional work and increased costs for municipalities’. The patient and user needs are among others who point out that proposing a right to stay in a hospital only when this is the only way to ensure necessary and defensive services is a significant restriction compared to today's dishes. One of mine: ‘There is a risk that some municipalities – if the legislative amendment is adopted – will opt to narrow the current practice in the allocation of nursing homes only to cases where this is ‘the only offer that can provide [...] necessary and sound services.’» The left-hand-steered Hurdal municipality says this: ‘Imagining the creation of a new right without creating a new right would be to mislead the population and could contribute to an increase in the level of conflict in a vulnerable time for patients and users.’ The Health Directorate is opposed to all proposals in the proposal and lacks a professional basis for the proposals proposed. The right-hand-steered Asker municipality came with this exact designation: ‘It is thus seen as not being complete that the legislation proposes to highlight separate parts of the care chain. By adding a separate rightful provision on lucky day services, we believe it can be seen as a step backwards in the development of health and care services.’ In the case of the proposal for the legalisation of the national and municipal criteria for the allocation of long-term stays, they are also slaughtered in the hearing. National criteria are considered in the context of the State funding experiment for care for the elderly. But the problem with the government is that so few municipalities will be in the attempt that the attempt can no longer be called a trial, but a failure. The Health Directorate believes that the proposals on the municipal criterion are based on the wrong use of justice, because it alerts the regulation requirement will not give anyone any rights. There's good reason to listen to the Health Directorate, who warns that the proposed changes will have the opposite effect of what is intended. As the Center Party and the Workers Party write in the setting, it will be ‘difficult for the individual patient or user to understand that he/she does not receive a sick home, even if he/she meets the criteria for long-term accommodation and has received a single decision on this — and even if he/she has received support from the County.’ The Health Directorate believes that the proposal of the government leads to confusion and insecurity when the law of duties and justice is really without legal significance for those who owe it. Otherwise, the centre party refers to the proposal by the Labour Party and the Centre that municipalities develop known criteria that clarify long-term residence practices without being specified in the regulation. The Right Party and the Progress Party – with some reluctance from the Left Party and the Christian People's Party – will give older people the right to stand on a waiting list, the right to have a decision, but not a right to a sick home place. The waiting list is also not a priority waiting list; it is a list of older people who are waiting, without knowing how long or how many others will have room for them. The municipality of Buddy said this in the listener: ‘The creation of waiting lists is a step back to old practice. A list does not have any practical effect on whether or not the user is given sick leave. In order to provide good services to the population, there has to be enough sick places or housing, and enough staff. That is what is the reality of the individual." This is the point. The central party will vote against the recommendation from the committee, and the Labour Party has put forward the proposals that we agree on in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3023	Strengthening the legal position of weak groups is a recurring theme here in Stortinget – I think that is good and important. And we'll hardly be done with it in decades. We know that those with the lowest voice often do not reach the battle for resources, and they need the strictest protection. This applies to either one is a paperless asylum seeker, a child under public care, a patient in mental health protection or a caregiver. It's for these groups we have to have good laws and rights. Perhaps the very best thing about what we are adopting today is that we introduce waiting lists. I think it's not going to be entirely related to reality, what the Center Party says, because we know there are huge variations between municipalities. No one has mentioned what politicians see in this, and seeing a waiting list I think I'm doing something to politicians. I myself have been in local government and have received long descriptions of how important it is to bet on prevention – that is, of course, important – and that it is long until demographic development leads to a greater need for a health home. There is, of course, an ongoing disembarkation of hospitals. This means that patients are in fact losing rights, including: toy coverage. For the sickest of the elderly, on whom the representative Bollestad was inside, it is a weakening. Many also operate under-capacity, and the consequence of this is that we have an ever-increasing roll-out of short-term spaces, and both for individual patients and for relatives, it is a heavy burden. So imposing waiting lists means I'm an important part of what we're doing today. It's also important because we have to give room to those who need it. Today, a significant proportion of young people are referred to in nursing homes. That's not the right address. It takes place for those who should have medical coverage and the most specialised care and care of the elderly, and municipalities should provide a better and more appropriate offer to young people. As is the case at present, more municipalities need to work together at inter-municipal level to provide specialised care and care and also to increase capacity in places for young people in need of care. Part of the issue we are dealing with today deals with state attempts, and it's not really the Left's policy and the way to go, but we think that state attempts should we do more. That is why we are interested in learning from the municipalities that are now going to start. And there are many enough to make this one of the major state trials in the care sector. We're doing something similar within the Chronicle Group, and it's important that we make such a great effort to get good research and evaluation. For the municipalities, it's important that they implement, because we're going to learn something from this, either we're going to move on with something, or we're not going to do it. For many municipalities, there is still a great deal of work to be done in the field of supervision. Unfortunately, in some municipalities, some of them are a bit of a complex body of elderly people who oversee municipal care and care. That's not good enough. Some municipalities, such as the municipality of Trondheim, have regular annual supervision through their control committee and carry out systematic audits. I have a sense of that -- not necessarily the right body, but it's at least a history, and they build a quality of surveillance. Similarly, we need to develop the work in the municipalities to get a systematic and a quality on it, which politicians too can play on, but also especially relatives can play on, because today it is for some people something like fighting windmills to get space. The left is very happy that we particularly specify that we should have municipal criteria somewhat more to health, medical criteria and away from some random criteria based on the allocation office and the admission office, which sometimes seem to be trying to keep patients out of place and not get them into the right service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3038	I thought the representative Toppe had a good post, and I thought the last post had an impact on what this matter was about. It is certainly a question of waiting lists that it was important in this proposal. We get an unpriority waiting list so politicians can see. That was my summary of the article for the previous speaker. That's a strange suggestion. The government is suggesting no government says it has no effect. There's a bunch of questions going on in this case. There are a lot of examples of how governments don't take older people and pensioners seriously. The parental care is hardly a theme in Stortinget. Government issues give general publicity and seem to be more and more concerned with explaining away than actually changing. Then I just have to remind you that in this session it is only SV and the Central Party that have made their own suggestions. I'm particularly surprised by the Progress Party, which before they came into government, over many years passed something I perceived as a genuine commitment to the elderly and the sick in the country. In the 2013 election campaign, Siv Jensen promised that the elderly promise to the Progress Party would cost what it would cost, but in the government they have shown that tax relief for the richest is more important than affording the municipalities good elderly care. Billions of progress have been spent on the richest, should be included. care of the elderly. They should go to a staffing standard with enough qualified added time for care and for a better community economy. Both parts have been proposed by SV in Stortinget, and both parts have voted against the Progress Party. The Progress Party has even voted against monitoring the human rights of the elderly in care. That says everything. – There are now some examples of how the Progress Party has left older in the game. In the spring of 2015, Norwegian pensioners were cut off on a proposal from the Progress Party. So the same thing happens this year. In addition, they remove the social security decision from the Storing. The State funding for the care of the elderly by the Progress Party has become a small pilot project. Almost no municipalities will be there. The step-by-step game has repeatedly proposed a recruitment standard for older people. It went further and further into bureaucratic explanations. In the government's news of primary health services, it's called once, but it doesn't have any content. Instead, they lean on a security standard that cannot be understood as anything but empty recommendations. Health Director Bjørn Guldvog confirmed that he knew about human rights violations, and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights said they were genuinely concerned about the situation. Not once did the Progress Party do anything but vote against the proposal to take this up. The party voted against the SV’s proposal to strengthen the patient and user environment financially. They have voted against the SV’s proposal on the recruitment standard in the care of the elderly. They're necting the municipalities' money to clean up precipitous hospitals. Especially in Oslo, this is serious after years with the Progress Party government of care. And what happened to the so-called right to sick home? The government's own statement is that the right does not matter at all. I quote from the proposition we're dealing with today: ‘Communities are already obliged to provide sound health and care services to their users, cf. Health and care services Act § 4-1. Consequently, the proposal for clarification of the applicable law and the proposal for the introduction of requirements for an overview of those waiting for long-term employment in parallel with the provision of sound services will not have a significant financial impact on municipalities.» This is a very, very strange thing. To dissipate the old with changes in promises that both professionals, hearings and departments are clear that the rights of the elderly and lead to more bureaucracy are a special way of treating the elderly, the sick. I expect all those who are concerned with care for the elderly to notice in particular the flight of the Advance Party from their own promises. SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, and we're going to vote against the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3071	I am pleased that the Stortinget can finally adopt the amendment to the law that clarifies the right to a sick place. This is an important follow-up to the cooperation agreement of the government parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Government proposes that the patient and user rights law should make it clear that a person has the right to hospitalisation if, following a health and care assessment, this is the only offer that ensures a proper service provision for each individual. In such cases, the patient shall be assigned a hospitalisation site and cannot be placed on a waiting list. The right shall also include stays in organised dwellings with assistance and supervision similar to those in a nursing home. The legislative proposal therefore also contains legislative changes to facilitate a better health care provision system. It will ensure a more predictable legal position for the individual and more transparency of the allocation process. On the basis of the proposal, each municipality shall draw up a regulation setting out the criteria for granting long-term residence in a hospital or similar housing in the municipality. The municipality must therefore be clear to its inhabitants as to what services they can expect in their own municipality. The government will introduce long-term national criteria following the implementation of the State funding experiment for care services, and we have gained experience with the national criteria there. It is important to provide the individual user and patient with predictability and certainty that he or she has been assessed in the light of the municipality’s criteria for granting long-term residence. A decision may contribute to such security while also providing legal certainty and the possibility to appeal on the basis of a clear decision. In the legislative proposal, we also propose that patients or users who are able to wait in a long-term place with reasonable assistance but who fulfil the criteria of the municipality should be entitled to such a decision. The municipality shall maintain waiting lists of patients and users waiting for long-term employment in the municipality. The model provides security for individual needs to be seen. This should be the case in the patient’s healthcare system, while also contributing to the needs of the municipality for transparency and the basis for priorities, and will increase the pressure to expand the necessary number of happy days’ care facilities. The government believes that greater transparency on both the criteria for allocation and waiting lists will put a stronger pressure on municipalities to fulfil these obligations. It is a fact that the hearing bodies have been divided into views on the proposal. The objections to the proposal are strongly quoted in the debate until now, but none of those who vote against the proposal have quoted are that most patient and user organisations are in favour of the proposal. The senior case says, among other things: that the bill is a ‘primarily initiative to ensure users’ rights of access to hospitals and underlined the obligation of municipalities to facilitate this’. The government has placed a decisive emphasis on the legal certainty of users in the legislative proposal. The amendment of the law, together with the government's clear strengthening of the investment grant to the health care centres of the lucky day, will also strengthen the rights of caregivers in practice. I have noticed that the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and now also SV do not support the bill, because they believe the proposal can contribute to the ambiguity of already statutory rights and more bureaucracy in the service. We know from the reality that many users and relatives today feel that their needs are not being met and not being met. The government and our support parties have listened to what they say, and for them this amendment of the law is necessary. The aim of the legislative proposal is to provide elderly people, relief workers and the general public with the necessary safeguards to ensure that a hospital or similar accommodation is available when the need arises. Many, and perhaps most of us, want to master life themselves and live at home as long as possible. Government policies also support this. Care 2020 will provide new solutions to ensure greater influence on users over their daily lives, increased freedom of choice and a sufficient diversity of good quality services. We have concrete efforts to improve cooperation with relatives, increase the competence of employees and contribute to professional conversion and innovation. It is also important to ensure that the sickest are accommodated in an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3095	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3098	The legal text is a literary genre of your own, and you have to listen carefully when the foremost legal experts speak out. Care lights have said the following about the matter we are now dealing with: ‘Where a right of residence is proposed only when this is ‘the only one’ that can ensure the necessary and sound services, this is a substantial restriction compared to the rights of the day. There is a risk that some municipalities – if the law is adopted – will opt to narrow the current practice in the allocation of health care facilities to include only cases where this is ‘the only offer’. [[...]] These warnings came when the government had the matter at the hearing, so my question is, why has the Council of State chosen not to listen to heavy hearing bodies such as the Association of Lawyers and Caregivers, who actually say that the wording of the proposed law amendment weakens legal certainty and does not strengthen it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3108	Because it's wrong. It is not that no one else will be offered and given a decision on the care and care of the lucky day. The quote made by the representative Knutsen here is what is today's legal state, namely that for those to whom there is no sound offer other than to go to the institution, they cannot be put on a waiting list and must be given institutional space immediately. That's the perception of today's law against which the Workers' Party has leaned when they say that there is a right to hospitalization already. But in the real world, everyone knows that there are very few patients who are in such a situation. They are currently not sure that they are actually given a decision on what is the professionally correct offer they are to have, they often feel that they are given provisional decisions, other types of decisions, which do not contribute to legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3113	The councils really don't answer my question. He's talking about a situation that's right in many places, whether we've legalized this or not. That's why there might be other things than lawmaking that we have to work with more. When the leading lawyers come up with this objection to the legal text, I am amazed that the Council of State has not changed exactly this. But another question: the Health Directorate is opposed to this regulation because they believe it is the wrong application of law, as the regulation under the Administration Act does not grant rights to individuals but to an indefinite group. Have you not chosen to listen to your own professional directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3122	Firstly, I answered Knutsen's first question very precisely. Secondly, I am surprised that the Senterpartiet and the Arbeiderpartiet also disagree that the criteria of the municipality should be laid down. The regulatory attachment option is one of the following: that a person has no consultation requirements relating to the criteria to be defined. It is not the type of process required for regulatory fastening. In this way, the Workers' Party and the Centre are taking away from patients, user organisations, the doctor in the municipality and the trade unions the opportunity to actually have a very clear view of what should be the criteria of the municipality. Again, in this case, the working party consistently chooses to stand on its side against the interests of patients and users.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3127	So that's not what the heaviest professionals say. They say, on the contrary, that today you can appeal a decision and get support from the County. So this regulation, which is not individually designed, says the Health Directorate will not help the individual to fulfil his or her rights, because the regulation applies to a group and not to individual rights. Doesn't the Council of State see that the union director has a point, or is he completely on a collision course with his own directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3132	The fact that local authorities now need to establish regulatory criteria means that we ensure users as today very often, for example. is decided on something other than the care and care of the lucky day because the municipality does not have a free space – even if the professionals think they need the care and care of the lucky day. They will then have a different decision, while with this bill it will be very clear that it is the municipality's obligation to provide the day-to-day care when it becomes available. At the same time, of course, the municipality must describe which offers are to be made in the meantime, and one has the opportunity to complain about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3137	In the proposition, it is very clear that the new rights should be understood so that the elderly are entitled to a decision, but not entitled to a health care centre. For even if one meets the long-term maintenance criteria, a single decision has been taken and has been supported by the State, a waiting list can be placed on that list without knowing how long it should last. Does the Council believe that the sick elderly person understands that such a new practice is a strengthening of his or her rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3142	Yes. Because we know very well what is the alternative in many municipalities today. It is that both the elderly and the relatives who are very clear that what you need are happy day care and care, today experience a response from the municipality:No, for you it is enough that you get reinforced home-based services, and then you live in uncertainty: Am I seen by the municipality? Has the municipality actually seen my need? With this system, everyone will get a very clear response: Yes, the municipality has seen your need, you will get space when it is your turn. – In the meantime, an appropriate offer is made while a waiter is waiting. I am convinced that it will both create security and reduce conflicts. Why am I convinced of this? Well, because this model is not a desktop model, it works in practice in Stavanger municipality today, a municipality that in the hearing opinion is very clear on its support based on their experience of how this works... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3149	I note that the Council of State says that many municipalities are currently operating irresponsible services, as there are very many homes with home-based services, which according to the Council of State is irresponsible. This legislative proposal should then be improved. It's amazing if it's like this. My question is: when it is introduced now, one goes away from what was considered in the hearing proposal to set a deadline for fulfilling the decision on long-term space. With the waiting list chaos in health care establishments fresh in memory, where a waiting list is hidden, etc., there is a reason to ask: Why does the government not have, when a person first enters, take this completely out and give patients a time limit for how long they should be on the waiting list? It's about months, it's about years. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3156	Firstly, the representative Toppe cannot have heard after what I said in my first answer. It is clear that if the only good thing for users is to have good care and care, for example. a hospital accommodation shall not be placed on a waiting list but shall be provided with a place. It's clearly shown in the proposition. Patients who have been professionally assessed according to the criteria of the municipality should receive full-time care and care at an institution, may be offered another decent offer if there is no room for manoeuvre. Of course, there is a requirement that the offer should be sound. That's what's going on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3162	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3167	Having heard the speeches in the debate now, I almost have to ask myself – at least – about the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV really understand who this amendment is to take care of. It's very good out in Municipality-Norway, but there's also a lot of desperate patients, very many despairing relatives. I think there are also quite a lot of desperate employees on grant units, because, I think, you need clear criteria and transparency about what it is that is going to trigger a lucky day's place of care. Few people want to stay in a nursing home, and no one should be placed in a nursing home without having a real medical need. That's why I'm proud of a government that has lifted care for the elderly in a very good way through these first three years of government – strengthening day-time activities for dementia wards, providing funding for the use of welfare technology, which can meet the needs of chronically ill patients in particular. We set up home visits for the elderly. We strengthen the competence of the municipalities, the municipalities have 1.2 billion. kr of the year to use for the enhancement of competence. We've introduced leadership training at BI. The list is even longer. But no matter how good services we can offer at home, you get to the point where happiness and care are absolutely necessary. In that case, the criteria shall be clear and clear, in which case the judgements of the treating physician shall count, then there shall be no longer any doubt as to the patient’s rights. This matter is not about all those who can live at home with good help – good help from health professionals, good help from technology, good help from voluntary efforts in many areas and good help from relatives. This case is about the craziest elderly patients who are so sick that they need good luck. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV are voting against this, which is supposed to maintain the legal position of the very weakest, the sickest. There is nothing said from this pulpit of the parties today that can explain why they say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3182	I have a certain courtesy of listening to the representative Hoksrud – he always gets so sad by the Workers' Party. That's a funny thing. I think he would rather be saddened by the fact that the two taboos that were launched for the care of the elderly, both what we are dealing with today, and the attempt to finance the state, have been so badly received in the municipalities, by professionals and by the vast majority of those who express themselves in these matters. I just want to say to the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen, if we had believed and thought and been convinced that this was the right way to do it, we would of course have supported this proposition. But I have become more and more convinced that this is – as the representative Toppe said – the emperor's new clothes. We need to listen to the strongest professional bodies, to the trade union directorate, to legal competence – for this is a law, this is a law – to KS, to individual municipalities, to the Medical Association, to the Nursing Association, and to the patient and user representatives. It's not that only the government parties have seen the light and understood the importance of having a good policy. It is not just the Right Party and the Advance Party that care that older people should be well in the municipalities. I'm assuming they can end up with that talk. The truth is that this proposition has so little support for those who are going to implement this, that I don't understand that you can go in for something like this. So to the criteria. We would like to have criteria in the municipality that are clear to citizens and users, so that we know – have described – what the allocation should be like. That is why we are promoting a proposal on this. We're not going to trick people into thinking that a regulation can give individual rights, because a regulation doesn't. That's what the Health Directorate warns against. So a regulation gives ‘rights or obligations of an indefinite number or an indefinite number of persons’ to quote what is stated in the Administrative Act. National criteria that say something about quality and that maintain quality indicators related to, for example: funding, the Workers' Party is very much in favour. We've been saying that for a long time, and we're now working on how to implement it. But I have to say, it might make a special impression to read the answers from the patient and user representatives of the country, who reject this proposal. I think it is ‘trist’ – to quote the representative of Hoksrud – that the government is against those who are going to implement this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3193	The representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen said in his first post that with this bill the municipality can no longer narrow down the rights of its users. No, the government can do it all by itself. The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen further said that there is nothing to explain why we – the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – say no to what is on the table today. Well, it's actually very, very simple, because the proposal from the government and the majority of the population here today narrows down people's rights, and we don't want to be in it. Life has taught me that it is wise to read what is written in small writing, and what is written in small writing, and which in fact none of the representatives of the positions here today has so far underlined, is the following quote from § 2-1 e: ‘If this is the only offer after a health and care assessment’ – I stress the only offer – ‘which can ensure the patient or user’s necessary and sound health and care services’. There we are at the heart of the matter, because it distorts the law compared to what it is today. It sounds great to be on a waiting list. I don't think it's great to be on a waiting list, because people who need and meet the criteria for hospitalization will get a sick place. It's the law of the day. The municipalities have a care for-responsibility, and that's what the government and the majority say is the strengthening of rights. I say it's the weakening of rights. Now the government has shown that they have experience in creative waiting lists, but the serious thing here is that users, the elderly and the sick in Norway, are being fooled. I am very pleased that the Council of State explained in its statement that those who have the greatest need are the ones who are going to go first, for that must of course be the case. But that means that a waiting list is a weakening of people's rights, because then, according to the logic of the majority of the population, you've already met the criteria for getting a sick home, but you don't get it because you're on a waiting list. This is not related. It was Ludvig 14 who said, State, it's me. It may be a little awkward to say that just how the government has behaved in this matter reminds me of it. The advantage of talking to yourself is that at least someone is listening. I would like the government parties here to listen to the trade unions and not narrow down the rights of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3208	It's pretty amazing to hear from the pulpit here that someone says that someone doesn't listen to them. That's exactly what the government is doing, we're actually listening. Yes, it may be that you sometimes disagree with some of the professionals, but who is the one who is concerned about getting this? Well, it's actually the relatives and the users. In fact, I think it's quite essential. I think the senior case is also an important actor to listen to when deciding what to do for something, and they are very clear and clear that they want a law enforcement of the court. It's nice to listen to SV's Knag County, which mentions the word "manning norm" quite many times here. I think we have almost as many times, either in the form of an annotation or in the form of a proposal, for the eight years his party was part of the government, promoted this by a standard of personnel, but so they voted down all the proposals. What this government has now done is that there have been several propositions that are also being followed up, where care for the elderly is an important part, what we are doing today is an important part, and there are several things coming in the future. In the security standard, to which some people are so negative, lies, among other things. skills, because it is important to have skills, to gain more skills from those who are going to do the job – all the amazing employees who do the best job they can. It's important to do something to strengthen the crew. It's also part of what you have to look at, but it's not just about it, it's about the right skills, it's about quality, and it's about the people you need to help and provide the good services, our fellow people and those who need this offer. But I'm recording that the Workers' Party is a party that is most concerned with the systems and less concerned with the people and the people who need help. Of course, it's not that it's important that someone comes on a waiting list. It's important that people actually get help, but then it might be nice that the municipality actually knows what it's like and that the municipal politicians know what it's like. I experience local politicians who sit and say yes, but there has been no negative headlines in the media, so I guess that's good. Because you haven't had a waiting list, you haven't actually known what it's like out there. I think it's sad, because I think it's important to know how it actually stands, what reality is and what reality is. That's why the state council has also referred to Stavanger, who has this, and who does it in a good way. The Labour Party controls 203 municipalities and has the rapporteur there, and the Centre Party has 95, so I assume that in one of these nearly 300 municipalities there will be problems with the care of the elderly, but I will follow closely. I think it's sad that you've been so negative to a state experiment that could actually be with and in a good way look at different solutions to how we're going to solve the care of the elderly in the future. I am convinced that in the case of the municipalities that will be involved in the state experiment, there will be success for the inhabitants of the municipality and those who need care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3219	Today's most prestigious posts came from the representative of the Socialist Left Party, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes. I'll take him on a little trip back, to 2005 and 2008, to the red-green government. The left took pride in it and entered into an agreement on a guarantee of dignity. In 2008, the ambition of the red-green government was to build 12,000 new places of care and nursing homes by 2016. In 2013, 260 new hospitals were built during the course of 2008–2013. It must be the break of time. We lost confidence that the red-green government could contribute to increased capacity. The number of care places grew by 1716. You didn't even get to 2,000 new places, but you were going to get 12,000. And one of the grips was to take away the housing cooperatives' grants and the opportunity to be involved in building this capacity. It was going backwards into the future. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, which has contributed greatly to building capacity in Norwegian care for the elderly, in particular care and elderly, has also lost this opportunity. I think this was a pretty significant contribution to the red-green lost the election in 2013. So it will be reasonably free to claim that you yourself would introduce a guarantee of dignity, that this could not contribute. The left is pragmatic. This is not necessarily the path to the goal, but today's government has put on considerable, increased grant to build sites, with which this is related, by 50 pst. We now see that the municipalities are building. Several actors are allowed to participate in the creation of spaces. As I said, there's a lot of difference around municipalities in allocation, and there's already a very impenetrable bureaucracy for many, both patients and relatives, so this is at least a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3233	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen said she couldn't understand how we could vote against this proposition today, but we have a lot of good reasons. Repeating: The medical unit is opposed to this. It is also the Medical Association, KS, the Health Authority, the Health Directorate, the Association of Lawyers, many municipalities and not least the country's patient and user housing. It is claimed that the user organisations are too. One may have found someone, but on the Pensioners' Association's side, it says that they're disappointed with the government's proposal. ‘We cannot see the right to sick leave being strengthened or the obligations of municipalities being increased as a result of this bill.’ They fear that the bill will open up to offer a corresponding dwelling without offering sick homes. National criteria are shown. There is already a proposal that the Health Directorate has drawn up in the context of the national State funding experiment. The criteria are so discretionary that there won't be any enhancement of the corrections. When it comes to waiting lists, I record that the council did not respond to what I asked for in the reply: How long did the government party and the government think it was okay that the elderly who have been given the right to a sick home place could stay on a waiting list? Is it three months? Is it three years? One has not said anything about it and does not respond to it today. The most honest thing that has emerged from the positioning party in this case is that this is a follow-up to what is on the government platform, that a system of statutory rights to day-to-day care and care. I respect that, but the result is very bad. What we've been given is an enhanced right to live home when a person really needs an institution space. I'm going to admit that this is happening also today, and there's a little bit of the problem, but the difference between today's practice and what the government is now proposing is that now this unworthyness becomes legally binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3249	The answer to the representative Kjersti Toppe's question is that those who need a sick place, and where it is not appropriate to make any other offer, cannot be placed on a waiting list, but must have room immediately. In those cases where it is appropriate to make a different offer pending the availability of a vacancy, it will be the municipality's assessment of who has the greatest need, which will determine how quickly a place is provided. The prerequisite for getting one place is that several places are built. The government is also doing something about that. Today, we have received the fasit of the Labour Party's major election campaign in 12,000 more places. There were slightly more than 2000 locations in the period 2008–2015, for which the promise was made. Today we have also received the municipal development plans for 2019. It is from 2017 to 2019 this government and the Christian People's Party and the Left's prioritisation of the expansion of several places is in effect, because it goes between three and five years from a municipality applying for a grant until the place is ready. It tells us that in the next three years, more places will be built – and then we'll talk about more places, not cleaned up or repainted places – than what was done in the previous seven years, under the red-green government. Because that's what's at the heart of this question: Should people who need a place to stay in a hospital, get a place to live in, actually the place has to be there. Then it's also very wise that municipalities get an overview of how many people actually have a need, who are waiting, because we know that this will increase the pressure on local politicians to build up and plan enough places. It is wise to do as the government now suggests: to strengthen the pressure on municipalities to build more places by further targeting funding towards it, especially after 2019, when the large increase in the elderly comes. So the representative Laila Gustavsen said what has been the Workers' Party's mantra in this case over all the eight years they put in government: Those who need a sick home place are entitled to a sick home place. Yes, how many older people and their relatives have not been provoked by this opinion by the Health Ministers of the Workers' Party in these eight years? For everyone knows that with today's law there is a statement that has very little content too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3260	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3263	Yes, I would like to comment on the last figures of the Council of State – 12,294 commitments for grants paid to 7,690 lucky places during the period. Governments only operate with several new locations. Then he puts the thumb screw on a part – there are a lot of municipalities that want to rehabilitate places that you have today. And I've heard what KS and others are saying about the new regulations, or the changes that have now come, about subsidies. And so: not only does it benefit to grant subsidies to build, you also have to refinance the municipalities, so that the municipalities can afford to operate. That's a very important point. This government doesn't. You strangle the municipalities, and then you don't have much space.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3271	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3274	I'll be brief. After hearing the representative Knag County's talk about staffing, I record that SV in Stortinget is to increase staffing, but in the capital they are busy cutting, because at Hovseter's home you have to cut 13 posts in the private sector because you provide good care services to those who live there. It's sad. But we know that the old motto, what was the motto of the election campaign, of the SV and the Labour Party in Oslo, was more property tax and better care for the elderly, while the new motto must be: less care for the elderly and more property tax for the most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3281	If there is one thing the Labour Party can't talk away from, then it's their election vows about 12,000 sick homes, and so the local economy hasn't been better in ten years than it was in 2015. Retorics may be an art, but reality is probably the best, and that's also what it looks like right now. The central question for us today, and also for patients and relatives, is this a legislative change that the Workers' Party is going to choose to reverse in 2017? They have promised that if they return to the government offices in 2017, they will reverse the system of free treatment choices. Is the next election promise from the Workers' Party that we should also reverse this amendment, which on the one hand is considered completely unnecessary, but as it is argued on the other hand that it can have very great consequences? The Labour Party must first decide which side they are on in this case, whether there is an unnecessary legislative change or whether there is a legislative change that will have very unintended consequences for the distortion of care provision in the municipalities. It would be good to get an answer as to whether this is something you want to reverse if, against assumption, you were to come back to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3290	I can promise the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen and anyone who is interested, that the Workers' Party will always go to the elections to strengthen the care of the elderly and the care services, and we are concerned that users will have the rights they have today. I took the word to clarify some things. Firstly, it seems that waiting lists are the only thing to do to enable municipalities to plan their care services. That's not right. The municipalities have a lot of tools, and they are also obliged to have overviews and statistics of their residents, and many municipalities have them. So the fact that you have to have a waiting list that deprives people of rights in order to plan the development of care for the elderly is wrong. That's the one. The second is that the Council of State Höie said that the user organisations are provoked by what I said instead of saying that you have a right in a nursing home, so you need a place to stay. I have also learned that users and people should have a nursing home or a nursing home, but not got it – we all have experience of that, and that's something we're all concerned about, that starting point is common. One needs to develop care for the elderly in line with the needs of the population in Norway at all times. What's the entrance to the bulk of the population here is to solve it by depriving people of their rights. That's what's the big theme. We believe that the answer then is to expand the care of the elderly, build several hospitals, maintain the rights of the users and ensure that people get a sick home place and are not put on a waiting list, and if there is no sick home place in that municipality, the municipality is obliged to give them a sick home place in another municipality. So that's our answer: Money for the municipalities, money for new homes, the nursing homes of the lucky day, the money for upgrading nursing homes, not removing the rights of people to solve a problem with financing the care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3301	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3304	What provokes us in this matter is that when we decide things, and when we promise things to our constituents and go to the elections, we have to be honest. Here's the real problem: there's too many older people who cage, and who have to go home with help, but who should have had a sick place. The government proposes to legislate the court, but what's coming is not a law of a right, and that's where our criticism hits. I would just like to refer again from the Hearing Officers: according to the Health Directorate, according to a comment in the setting that: ‘it will be difficult for the individual patient or user to understand that he/she does not receive a sick home, even if he/she meets the criteria for long-term accommodation and has received a single decision on this matter — and even if he/she has received support from the County.’ This is a matter for which there is good reason to reverse, because it is a matter that does not affect patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3314	I would like to thank the representative Toppe for having at least received an answer from the Central Party saying that they want to weaken patients' rights by reversing this law, while the representative Laila Gustavsen could not answer that question on behalf of the Workers' Party. This bill strengthens patients' rights. Today’s right to those who can only receive a proper offer in a nursing home is made clear in the law. It would not be like today that it is only a general provision that a municipality should have sound health and care services. It is made clear that if the only reasonable thing is to have a hospitalized place, then the patient should have a hospitalized place. The second is that one also strengthens the legal certainty of the patient group who today feels that they have a clear need for hospitalisation but who do not. They will now receive a clear message from the municipality that: Yes, we have seen your need. When it becomes a free space, you're going to get it, based on our assessments. It gives you a sense of security. That is why I totally disagree with the description Kjersti Toppe draws through the quote from the Health Directorate. The background for me being so sure about it is just that this has been tried in the real world. And what is the feedback from those who are sitting and working on this, for example. at the allocation office in Stavanger? Well, it's that when they tell the relatives and the elderly themselves that, yes, you get a decision about full-time care, we've seen your need, but unfortunately we don't have any free space right now, but you're going to get your place when it's your turn, it creates a great understanding of that situation and a certainty that the municipality has seen the need and will follow up. It's important, because what's often happening today is that when a municipality doesn't have room, they make decisions and say that you can deal with enhanced, home-based services. Then there is a conflict and a unrest between the patient, the user and the municipality. The other thing that happens is that one also experiences in municipalities that local politicians are told – the representative Gustavsen’s general description – that those who need a sick home place are given a sick home place. But then everyone who lives in that municipality knows that there are many people with needs that have not received it, precisely because the municipality has not implemented good enough systems. Now we force all the municipalities to put in place good enough systems in this area. There is an important legislative change that the Storting will adopt today. But I think it would have been interesting to hear if the Workers' Party has intended to change this if they come into position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3327	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3330	I took the floor because of the posts of the representative, Laila Gustavsen, on the obligation of the municipalities to have an overview of the population. Yes, that's true, but there's something quite different than having a waiting list, because on that waiting list, there's someone who's got a medical reason why they need a lucky day care or a nursing home. It's something completely different. Today the trick is for a regular who does not have the conscience to leave a sick elderly person at home, to write him into a hospital. When you are discharged from a hospital, the municipality is forced to come up with a place. Many municipalities also do not allocate space, because they have no free space, instead of allocating when the need is there. So there's a lot of ways around this, and that's what the Center Party and the Workers' Party are now saying that they just want to keep going. What we're not doing today is rightfully confirming that older residents will have access to permanent homes at home. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3339	That's when the time was up. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3355	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3362	A new municipal patient and user registry will be of great importance for patients to experience an overall patient cycle, for us to be better able to prioritise health resources properly, and to provide us with a better knowledge base for quality improvement work. The Committee stresses that there is a strong political desire for a register that can provide equivalent knowledge of primary health services, as we do today about the specialist health service. It is therefore necessary to design the register in such a way that it will also provide relevant knowledge of the transfer of patients between these two levels. An important prerequisite for this is that the new municipal register is built over the same reading as the Norwegian patient register, which is the specialist health service register. The aim of the register is to provide those responsible at different levels with knowledge of the functioning of the services, whether they provide desired results, and whether patients, users and relatives experience services as whole and good. The register must be built up to provide information on the occurrence and cause of disease, disability and social problems, knowledge of effective prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and good ways to organise and finance services. The new municipal patient and user registry must take into account that the planning perspective is more long-term in the municipal health service, and that patient pathways are often long-term and involve several actors. The new municipal register must therefore focus more on function and process than on single diagnosis, individual services and individual treatment. User involvement and user preferences must also be weighted. The register must cover the activities of fixed doctors, medical practitioners, nurses and others engaged in diagnostics and treatment on a very large scale. The aim is for the register to cover the entire primary health field. We are currently lacking systematic knowledge of dental services for adults, health and school health services and health and care services for prisoners in prison. The new register shall be based on existing registers, such as: IPLOS. Data from IPLOS are not available for local learning and development work. The Committee is clear that the new municipal patient and user register is being changed so that relevant data are made available locally and become a basis for quality work. The Committee is committed to reducing the reporting burden and expects a critical review of the relevant governance data – which are realistic and maintain quality requirements. Electronic data capture from professional and patient records must be carried out as automatically as possible. The need for data will change as a result of the development of healthcare. Wide professional anchoring is important. Regulation and future changes will be consulted. There is disagreement in the Committee and among the hearings on the usefulness of a comprehensive register. There are also several who, for privacy reasons, are critical to collecting such comprehensive data on citizens, and there are differing views on whether the register should be based on consent or open to reservation rights. The minority is going to explain their vision later. The majority of the Committee emphasises the high value of a register which must cover, as far as possible, all relevant primary health care and demonstrates that the interests of privacy and unauthorised use of information will be safeguarded by legislation and technical and organisational solutions. The Ministry will also examine the possibility of reservation rights during regulatory work. The majority believe that the municipal health register must be based on consent, in the same way as the specialist health register. Good data quality is important in order to provide information on patient careers and health care needs before and after hospital discharge. For example, the majority to the Institute of Public Health, which considers that the non-compliance will be significant and not statistically evenly distributed among the population. The data base thus becomes neither complete nor valid and will present significant challenges for analysis and interpretation — and in the next round for priorities and quality in treatment provision. The majority of the Committee advises the Stortingen to adopt the proposed legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3388	There is a great need and a strong political desire to establish a patient and user register that provides an equivalent knowledge of primary health services – as we do today about specialist health services. We also need a register that can provide knowledge of the relationship between the two levels and the transfer of patients between levels. The government is therefore proposing the establishment of a municipal patient and user register to improve information and knowledge about municipal health and care services. The municipal patient and user registers will be built over the same reading as the National Patient Register. It is essential to provide important information on the patient profile to patients in need of healthcare services, both before and after hospital discharge. Just as the Norwegian patient registry currently provides the basis for decisions in the specialist healthcare service, responsible primary health service providers need to have the necessary and relevant information on the services provided and their use in order to strengthen their own offerings. The main purpose of a municipal register of patients and users is to provide the basis for planning, management, financing and evaluation of municipal health and care services for central and municipal authorities. The information contained in the register shall also be used for statistics, health analysis, quality improvement, preparedness, prevention and research. Knowledge of municipal health and care services — as it works today — is fragmented and not suitable for planning and managing healthcare. It is therefore high time to put in place a better knowledge base on municipal services, if we are to achieve the ambitions to increase the quality of care services in municipalities. To this end, both central and municipal health authorities will need more knowledge of the services already provided. The government has a strong focus on creating patients’ and users’ health and care services. A new municipal patient and user register will help each user to obtain better services. The proposal for a municipal patient registry is a follow-up to the Report. St. 26 for 2014–2015 Primary Health Service of the Future – proximity and completeness and Report. St. 19 for 2014–2015 Public Health Communication – Mestring and opportunities. They provide the basis for re-use, organisation and compilation of existing data, from the services of a single register. The register will be established on the basis of existing information and provide updates on the occurrence and cause of disease, disability and social problems. All of this will be important in order to better prevent and expand service provision with the right capacity. When changing the Health Register Act — as the government now suggests — the privacy of patients and users will be protected. The changes shall also not result in an increased need for reporting. It is worth noting that the National Register of Patients for Specialist Health is also not consent-based or reserved. A majority of the hearing bodies considered that a municipal patient and user register cannot be based on consent either. Many also showed that it is particularly important that municipal patient and user registers have representative data. In the Public Health Institute consultation opinion, it was also shown that society spends considerable resources on health and care services, which also shows the need for a good and robust knowledge base for the best planning, governance, funding and evaluation of these services by central and municipal authorities. The government will provide the patient’s healthcare, and we are all committed to strengthening municipal health and care services. If we are to succeed, it is important that health authorities be given the opportunity to acquire a better knowledge base on services and to ensure that resources are used in a good way, providing good quality and health care to the individual patient and user.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3416	Here in this Chamber we debated the public health report quite exactly one year ago. In it was far more than school fruit, although this was precisely what got the greatest focus from the opposition parties. Last year we also debated the primary health communication, highlighting some of the challenges facing the community health service, for example. several users with more complex conditions and complex needs, as well as the fragmentation and low coordination of community health and care services. The user involvement is still too low. We have a lack of knowledge of content and quality, and we have to do something about that. It was actually after the examination of these two messages that the need for this proposition was really revealed: as in all other areas of society, it must be prioritised. In the past, the Progress Party has shown different supervisory reports that there is considerable variation in municipal care services in different municipalities. The identification and implementation of measures to limit unjustified variation will be an important effort to achieve the objective of equivalent health and care services for the whole population. The primary health message pointed out that the municipality is required by the Health and Care Services Act to carry out systematic quality improvement and to work systematically with patient and user safety. It involves both planning, implementation, evaluation and systematic improvement. Such quality improvement can be corrected by data from the service itself and will be necessary for further systematics. If patients are to experience that the services they receive are of good quality, we need tools that are good enough to measure this. For the government, the overall goal is to create the patient's healthcare. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate the establishment of a register for municipal health and care services. The Party for Progress is committed to simplifying and improving. Therefore, it is gratifying that the proposition assumes that municipal patient and user registers should be established in existing registers. Just as it is, there are major differences between municipalities, especially when discussing care for the elderly. This proposition also refers to the corresponding findings and states that there are fragmented and not comparable data around the municipalities. Better interaction will be for the benefit of patients. A number of services we use daily contain information about ourselves. We log into an online bank from both PC and mobile. We download apps to our phones both for train tickets and to order a taxi. For every time we leave track: where we are, and what we're going to do. In the case of health information, it is important that this is done in a good manner. Health information is too many very personal. That's not information you want to share with outsiders. Therefore, healthcare professionals are also bound by professional secrecy. As long as self-determination is respected over your own information, I feel confident that this will further develop services that benefit society in the future when we are going to develop new and better solutions in the healthcare sector of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3439	Different health records have been a good tool in health over time, especially in specialist health services. There has been a good tool that has led to changes, better procedures, better interaction, increased knowledge and, not least, better patient treatment. I can mention the Heart Test Register, which means we've got a completely different survival rate. The trauma record has made even more people survive great traumas. Services interact within and outside hospitals. The Pacemaker Register actually gives people new and better pacemakers. We've got the cause of death register, which shows what people are really dying of, and what we have to do better next time. We've got the Cancer Register, which showed that the package sequence is a good thing – to name someone. Those who have earned this are patients, because experience and knowledge provide better treatment and better services. Community health services will receive and have received patients who are becoming more and more complex and have more and more diagnoses. We need a better knowledge base in order to provide better healthcare, create a whole, increase knowledge and improve interaction that makes us better, and that patients get better. The main thrust of the proposal is to authorise the use and compilation of existing registers. I think that's wise, because then you get a complete overview of where the shoe prints. There is an extreme need for increased knowledge, especially on patient progression, and interaction in the services offered to patients in Norwegian municipalities. Knowledge of occurrence, causes, disease images, disability and social problems is needed, so that we can actually see if there are places we can go in and get the good effect of preventing and changing the service provision to the best of society and the economy, but most of all for the benefit of patients in the future. That is why the Christian People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3452	The centre party is positive and sees the need to introduce a municipal patient and user registry. Many before me have mentioned the need for that and the background for that to be necessary. What we have addressed in particular in this setting is the focus on not leading to an increase in the reporting burden in healthcare services, as it has been demonstrated in many contexts that health care reporting burdens have already increased. The registry must be designed in a way that does not increase this reporting burden. We have a proposal to make. In the proposal, the government states that the establishment of the register and the processing of information in the register must be regulated more closely by regulations. It will grant and propose the right of reservation against the registration of certain types of information and/or uses for certain purposes in the work on regulations. The size must therefore decide on the superior framework, and the important fundamental clarifications on privacy should be included in the regulation. The Data Protection Authority issues the following comments: ‘a decision by the Stortinget based on the consultation note would constitute an authorisation to establish a register of which the legislator does not know the scope of the data protection impact.’ We believe it is an important principle that individuals should be able to choose to reserve themselves against registering health information with identity marks, and we believe that this law should open up for this. We believe that a limited right of reservation to which the proposal refers may quickly become less available than a general right of reservation. We believe that in the proposition it is not proved that such a restriction as has been proposed is necessary to achieve the purpose of the register. We thought it important to remember that there is a general high level of trust in the Norwegian population in health services and in public registers. We're some of those hearing aids that point out that it's unlikely that so many people will make a reservation that there will be any impact on the quality of the register. In the setting, we have focused on what says that the register should be regulated more closely in the regulations, and that the government thinks there is a need to develop the register over time. In other words, what type of information should be recorded, what it can be used for, technical and organisational solutions to ensure privacy, etc., must be resolved in the regulatory work. The purpose and type of information of the register shall not be taken into account at present. We believe that what the government lists is very comprehensive, and that the bill gives very wide powers to the regulatory work, even if it is made clear that the regulations should be sent to the hearing. We believe that in principle important aspects and important decisions in the development of this register, which is going to be large, must be submitted to the Stortinget, and we propose it. Otherwise, we're going to vote in favour of this bill. I hereby submit my proposals to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3474	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3477	A municipal patient and user register will provide us with knowledge we need to be able to create the patient’s and the user’s healthcare service. Good services with the right capacity require us to know the causes and incidence of illness, disability and social problems. We need to know what provides good services, and what are good ways to organize and finance them. How do the services work? Do we get what we want? What is the interaction between municipal and specialist health services? This is knowledge that both municipal and central health authorities need. The proposed register will provide that type of knowledge. It will also provide patients and users with insight into the activities and results of healthcare. This specific bill is to amend Section 11 of the Health Register Act so that we can establish a municipal patient and user register in a regulation. The aim is to provide a basis for the planning, governance, financing and evaluation of municipal health and care services for central and municipal authorities. This purpose shall govern the information for which the register may contain. The information contained in the register shall also be used for statistics, health analysis, quality improvement, preparedness, prevention and research. The main action is to facilitate the re-use, organisation and compilation of existing information from the municipal services in a comprehensive register. The aim is not to increase the reporting burden on the registry. In the first instance, the registry shall be based on the existing health reimbursement and reimbursement system, KUHR, and the national health registry for individual care and care services, IPLOS. I take seriously the fact that the registration and storage of health information about individuals can in themselves be stressful, and that some people may be concerned that the information may be diverted. The privacy of patients and users must, of course, be safeguarded. The health or social benefits of the register, as I have explained in the proposal, will clearly exceed the data protection disadvantages. The information shall be processed in accordance with information security, professional secrecy, access rights, logging, the access of data subjects to the log and other data protection requirements of the Health Registry Act. Use of data for planning, management, evaluation, statistics, research, etc. will take place mainly on health data not related to the birth number. However, registration of the birth number is necessary in order to ensure good register quality, to develop good data sets and to link the data in the course of the process between the municipal health service and the specialist health service. The birth number shall be stored encrypted and separately from the health data. Name will not be registered. This will provide a very good assurance that the information will not be disseminated to unauthorised persons. I refer you to the Norwegian Patient Register and the Heart and Cardiovascular Register, which have a similar solution. We have a very good experience with this solution. Getting the most complete data is essential. Although there will be a few who make reservations, there are likely to be large local differences and those who make reservations have special characteristics. This could lead to a biased non-response and affect the quality of the register. It must therefore be possible to obtain and record information without requiring the consent or granting of a general reservation right. Nor is it possible to make reservations about registration in the KUHR or similar registers, such as the Norwegian Patient Register. Should a universal reservation right have been introduced, this would have to be established as a new register of new reporting, thus introducing double and triple work in the service. Self-determination of own data is important for privacy. I would therefore like to consider in the work on the regulation whether it is possible to reserve itself against the registration of some information or against use for certain purposes. The purpose and content of the register will be further regulated by the regulation. Detailed rules on the disclosure of information from the register shall also be laid down. Draft regulation will be sent at the hearing. A regulation provides an opportunity to get input from users, organisations and institutions that have views on these issues. A new municipal register of patients and users will help individuals to obtain better services and to develop the healthcare and care of patients and users. I am absolutely convinced that this register will help the management of municipalities and local politicians to be clear on the need for quality of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3508	It is important that the data from the new register can be used quickly and that they are user-friendly and relevant. The Public Health Institute is responsible for new national health records, as explained by the representative of Bollestad, and has built up unique analytical skills, where they systematically compile data, so that they become as relevant as regards both learning and management data at all levels, they can make visible the impact of actions, the quality of offers, risk factors for disease, coherence between different factors, etc. – what needs to be done in good analytical work. The question is: Will the Minister consider using the Public Health Institute's analytical competence in relation to the new municipal patient and user registers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3516	Over the state budget, it's set at 30 million. for the development of this register. The Directorate for Health, in cooperation with the Institute for Public Health, has been entrusted with the task of developing the register, including an assessment of the content of the register. I am familiar with the representative's commitment that this belongs in the Public Health Register and may also be located in the Public Health Institute's Department in Bergen. There are questions that we'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3523	Thanks for the answer so far. I interpret the body language as the minister is very positive about it. The point is to bring out the best of our unique environments and get the best results. The next question concerns a matter that we have raised quite often in the debate here: IPLOS, which we cannot use locally. This is why the question is: Will the Minister ensure, when the IPLOS is now used in the new register, that it is designed in such a way that relevant data can be collected locally in terms of development work, both at individual institutions and at municipal level?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3530	Now I'm going to be very careful with my body language, because it's led me into the control and constitution committee before [[muttering in the hall]] The new registry will be based on data from just IPLOS. This will make it more possible for municipalities to use it locally in the development of their services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3537	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3553	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3560	All of them first: let me thank the Committee for a clean and good process when dealing with this proposition. There is a broad majority that stands united behind most of the content of the proposition. It is gratifying that the country’s National Assembly is finally taking a decision that has been debated for many years, but no one – uncertainly for what reason – has been able to realise in the past. The Proposition is a result of the Government Party's Declaration of Health Violence, which states that it will: ‘open for product samples and restricted alcohol sales directly from niche producers and, if necessary, work to amend EU legislation in the field’. It is a joyous day for producers who will now have the opportunity to generate income from a new secondary industry. This is because today we are amending the alcohol law so that it is opened for sale directly from the producer of products above 4,7 % by volume of alcohol, which are not covered by the EEA Agreement and which have not been added spirits or mixed with other alcoholic beverages. Let me stress that the new scheme is based on the fact that it does not affect the position of the wine monopoly. A majority of the hearing bodies have supported the proposal and believe that the scope of the scheme will be so small that it will not pose a threat to the consistency of the Norwegian alcohol policy, nor would it pose a threat to the monopoly system. This is primarily an opportunity for niche producers to offer their products for sale at their own sales premises. The construction shall be part of an offer of a holistic nature and a minimum of one third of the own-produced raw materials shall be used. Such a system will be able to complete the offer of farm tourism, for example. Visitors can buy local products without having to walk the road to the Vinmonopolet. The Norwegian Bondelag’s hearing response states: ‘The main parts of the sale are likely to be to foreign tourists’.» It is easy to draw parallels to vineyards in France, Spain or Germany — where Norwegian tourists have always been able to do just that. The laws we adopt today represent simplification, are customer-friendly and generate new income – and perhaps even new jobs. The majority of the Committee has chosen to support the government's wish for a volume limitation of 15 000 litres per producer per year. There is a reduction from 20,000 litres from the time the case was being consulted — a reduction that has been made after the many recordings in the consultation round. The member of the Committee from the Central Party has proposed a volume limit of 10 000 litres, while the member of the Committee from the Christian People's Party has been relieved of the reduction in volume, but considers that despite this the proposals cannot be defended as they exist. In my view, 15 000 litres will be sufficient to provide sufficient room for innovation of new product types and adequate opportunities for new growth, as well as to meet the demand of a sales outlet in relation to production, and where production and sales are part of the overall nature and supply. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Christian People's Party, sees that the proposed amendments to the alcohol law could serve as a secondary industry specifically related to farm tourism. I believe that this amendment to the law is not a liberalisation of the alcohol law, but an organisation for a better tourist offer and an opportunity for a successful secondary industry for small producers. There is no secret that the HANEN member companies – the trade union organisation for rural tourism, farm food and inland fishing – have been expected to deal with this proposition by the Committee. The same thing has Hardanger Side producer team, who has been fighting for this case for very many years, and now finally soon can offer pages designated as the champagne from Hardanger for sale from their own farm, which can create ground to develop both the fruit industry and travel life in the region. They will all be pleased with the decisions we are going to make in this matter tonight. The law will come into force from 1 July, and then it will only remain to apply for municipal funding for those who want to produce and sell products according to the legislation that will then give rise to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3596	This is a matter for which the Workers' Party in Hordaland has worked for a long time. I also believe there is cross-political agreement on that, by the side of the Hordaland parties, largely, with the exception of the Christian People's Party. We are pleased that there is such a wide disintegration to allow farm sales of self-produced products above 4.7 % vol. alcohol. It will give our fruit-growers a good opportunity for a bee-nutrition and to expand farm tourism. Norway has a long tradition of producing pages in the most fertile areas of the country. Alcohol policy has been added to the Health Committee and requires us to be able to balance on the one hand active social control of alcohol turnover and harm-reduction measures with, on the other hand, access to quality products and further development of Norwegian food culture. The monopoly of wine is one of our main means of reducing alcohol use and preventing harm caused by alcohol use. It is clear that the proposed amendment to the alcohol law does not have an impact on Norwegian alcohol policy and does not weaken the position of the wine monopoly. The working party is therefore amazed at the proposal to propose the same opening times as for alcohol products below 4.7 % by volume of alcohol and not equal treatment with sales of products above 4.7 % by volume of alcohol. The Labour Party considers that the principle of equal conditions for producers who sell their products from the Vinmonopolet and those who sell from their own farm is, in principle, an important delimitation in order to prevent the EFTA Court from questioning the amendments now proposed by the Alcohol Code. The working party therefore proposes that the opening hours should follow the opening hours of the Vinmonopole and not the store opening hours. Then we have also made a proposal to evaluate after three years. There are several aspects of the case that it is difficult to know how it will turn out. In addition to the possible consequences for the wine monopoly system, it is unclear what is the correct ceiling on the volume restriction. The hearing proposed 20 000 litres – the same as for the smallest wine monopolies, while the proposal proposes 15 000 litres, and the Senterparte proposes 10 000 litres. The proportion of self-produced is set at one third, while Finland has 50 pst. in a similar arrangement. There are few producers today, and it is unclear how topical it will be that there will be more. Hardanger has a long tradition of page production and has six producers today: three in Ulvik and three in Ullensvang. They are concerned with the innovation and development of new products, as reflected in Left’s comments. That is why we think it wise to promote a proposal for evaluation after three years, so that we can assess these different aspects that are now emerging as unclear, while at the same time it is vital that we get as broad a majority as possible to implement changes in the alcohol law. At any rate, very well-known Finland has stopped its changes when they have tried to expand for new products – but they are a member of the EU – and Sweden has stopped theirs, in the same way, but we have found an opening within the EEA legislation. Finally, we would like to make the Committee's comment that we are challenging the wine monopoly to engage in closer dialogue with small-scale producers in Norway, so that the wine monopoly is perceived as a good sales channel for Norwegian developed small-scale products. I am promoting the two proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3617	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3620	Today, the Stortinge adopts something that has been long-lasting in agriculture for a long time, which will build up in a traditional business in our fruit regions. Until now, it has been impossible for producers to sell their own side as a secondary industry if it has an alcoholic strength by volume of more than 4,7 % vol. This is a good day for the fruit farmers in Lier in Buskerud, where I come from. It's been long. Short-range food and short-range drinks, and also short-range alcohol, I would say, are part of the green shift. Local food has come to stay. Farm sales are increasing, as is farm tourism. It is therefore extremely important that we adopt this today. It has been claimed in the past that this has been impossible to implement, but this case makes it impossible. It is therefore gratifying that a broad majority is behind such a change of law, although there is some disagreement in some parts. But it's the very principle that's important. This change gives several fruit beans an extra leg to stand on. In addition, it is important to ensure our traditions, and traditional page production will be a welcome contribution to the tourism industry. In this context, it is important that there are opening times that are tourist friendly, and that may well be some of the points. The scheme is expected to be limited to its extent and to have little impact on what I believe is a restrictive Norwegian alcohol policy. There is no reason to believe and fear that this will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption among the population, and we do not believe that the scheme should affect the position of the wine monopoly. I have to say that around the fruity Lier there are three wine monopolies with 10 minutes driving distance, and I think their activity will continue as before even if we grant this today. The holders of this manufacturing authorisation shall be able to apply to the municipality for a sales authorisation and it is important that it be placed at municipal level. This volume increase is not covered by the EEA Regulation when authorised from the place of production. There is a lot of law relating to the EEA and EEA legislation. That is why the Ministry carried out a thorough quality assurance exercise and in 2014 Professors Arnesen and Sejerstedt at the Centre for European Law carried out a legal inquiry into the Ministry of Health and Welfare which had just opened up the possibility of selling alcoholic products not covered by the EEA Agreement. It makes this legislative change that seems to be adopted today safe from what is to be covered. There has been a broad consultation involving more than 50 hearing bodies, and some adjustments have been made to the consultation proposal. It can be done, among other things: for a maximum volume of 15 000 litres per year. We don't think we're going to challenge the position of the Vinmonopole. It is particularly nice that the Center Party is with us in this matter, just to allow for the sale of alcohol on the farm. We have freshened in memory the debate on 18 May when the representative Lundteg said: 'Alcohol policy is national policy, it is not district policy'. But this is policy for the whole country, this is also good district policy, which agriculture has been waiting for, and it will make fruit farmers now have an extra leg to stand on. This is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3642	I want to say something about why the Christian People's Party is going against this. This is more than environmental policy, as it was for Ørmen Johnsen, it is more than district policy. Yesterday we marked all over the country «Russfri dag» under the command of the Salvation Army. The hubs and social services and other organisations depended on – in solidarity with those who are struggling, but also with all those who are an innocent party to the increasing alcohol consumption. During the last few weeks, the NRK has shown children the experience of parents and adults drinking, even though their parents are not overly drunk. In total, this government has made many changes in Norwegian alcohol policy that have allowed for increased availability. And increased availability gives increased consumption. We can talk blue about public health if we don't take what's the elephant in the glass house. The government proposes changes to the alcohol law that will allow direct sales of products above 4.7 pst. It will be possible to sell 15 000 litres per year per producer. 20,000 litres is a small monopoly of wine in the districts selling per year. The Christian People's Party responds to the government taking into account the opening hours of the grocery trade, which deals with products under 4.7 pst. This will increase the availability of alcohol. The Christian People's Party points out that a number of hearing bodies are concerned that this will challenge the monopoly system in our country, a monopoly system pointed to by the World Health Organisation has been well-founded and has had a good impact on Norwegian alcohol policy and reduced abuse. Now we're about to cut off that branch. I note that the investigation on which the government relies takes into account the fact that the EFTA can assess the case differently from the report concluded with regard to the sale of alcoholic products outside the EEA Agreement. I remember that the Vinmonopoly is strongly anchored in the Norwegian people. I am concerned that it is not fully anchored in the Norwegian storehouse, the break-up is not the same. We're about to destroy for what's been a success. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of Actis, of Juvente, of the Association Against Rustoft, of the State Institute for Drug Research, of the Health Directorate and of the LO, which believe that this can be part of and challenge the monopoly system in Norway. I record that there were some people who would listen to the Health Directorate in another matter, but who are not quite so careful to listen to the Health Directorate in this matter. I think the wine monopoly could sell a lot of these products. Me and the Christian People's Party choose to be consistent in this and say that increased availability increases abuse because it increases consumption. We have a lot of plans for treatment, we have a lot of plans for after-care, but we don't want to deal with the issue of prevention and less availability. That is why the Christian People's Party will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3661	The reason why the government can propose what they are doing today is that Norway is not a member of the EU. That's why they don't get this in Sweden, while we've found a way to do it in Norway as an EEA member. It is because the EEA Agreement does not deal with certain agricultural products. I thought it was a good thing to remind some parties that it is actually the general rule of the EEA Agreement that trade in agricultural products is not part of this, which means that we have found an exception today. The things coming from the government are much better than what was in the listener's draft. We couldn't have voted for what was in the listener's draft. The centre party can and will vote for the law passed today. This is particularly true with requirements for own production, which were not included in the listener’s draft, which was very problematic. The authority of the centre party to support the proposal is the government’s guarantee that this does not involve an EEA legal risk. We think it's very important to pass on the monopoly of wine, and that's what's been the big question in this matter years ago. According to the EEA legal assessment, the proposal will not in itself pose a threat in the EEA legal sense, but the overall development of the Norwegian alcohol policy – with several polythelials, increased tax-free trade, increased marketing, etc. - can be pulled forward. These are not my words. It is the EEA legal assessment and the report that contains just these words. So for the fruit-growers who are given this possibility today, the greatest danger is that the scheme will not be viable over time, in fact the general alcohol policy of the government and the plurality of the Storting – not the EEA Regulation in that sense. It is said in the report that the more limited the direct selling arrangements are, the less likely it is that the EFTA Court will be able to respond. That's a little bit of a reason why we're making two amendments today. The bill sets a volume limit of 15 000 litres per producer per year, just as low as 20,000 litres per producer per year in the hearing draft. But 20,000 liters is as much as the smallest wine monopoles sold today. And when we also read, it also says in the proposition, that this is a possibility for a limited direct hall, it's not supposed to be the main hall channel, we think it's a good argument to reduce this volume to 10,000 liters. And in the production of larger quantities, it will be time to become a wholesaler and enter the Vinmonopolet range. The centre party welcomes the comitology note in which a request ‘the government shall ensure that the monopoly of wine facilitates the sale of products from local small-scale producers within the framework of the existing legislation’. We believe that demand for a significant proportion of self-produced products will protect those who are in the target group of the scheme, namely small-scale producers of alcohol who use their own fruit and berries in production. We mean that it's natural to make the same demands as in Finland, that 50 pst. - not one-third - of the main inputs should be self-produced. When it comes to opening hours, the big group of the Center Party thinks that we're following what's in the proposition and the arguments for it. Finally, I would like to put to the House the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3680	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3683	For the left, we think it's an opportunity to spread the cork now. Many remember that former party leader Lars Sponheim went across the mountain to Stortinget when he was elected in 1993. With him in the sneaker he had among other things. the proposal to authorise the production of pages. He also became Minister of Agriculture and has done a great job over time to facilitate our adoption of this decision today. Even he never got involved in playing the ball completely in goal, but he succeeded in making the Left into a yes-to-EEA game, so it's at least full counting for the Left today. This is also an example of how heavy and slow start-ups based on local raw materials can be in the districts of Norway. It's also part of the story that we have to tell. Today, there is some opportunity to process raw materials from fruits and berries and local products, to distribute the products they have produced — often to foreign tourists, and to sell them as part of a more comprehensive travel product. For the relatively few producers this concerns, travel life may be the main activity. This may help to strengthen the entire business of the farm related to travel. For the left part, we have submitted some primary comments. We would prefer to see that we had gone up to 20,000 litres as an annual ceiling per producer. It is based on the fact that there would be greater room for action on product innovation, but also on the tourist season that is actually to be served. It's a little sad if you go out in the middle of the tourist season for one of the important products related to tourism. We should also like to see that it was possible to blend in spirits. Some of the producers concerned today, for example: Hardanger Juice and Side Factory, already delivers to Vinmonopolet products containing spirits, which are awarded by customers to some of the very best and most innovative products based on the local raw materials. For my own part – I am from the Mjø region, and Totenvika and Helgøya are often called Nordic Tuscany – I also look forward to the fact that some of the fruit and berries producers there dare to take the step and expand their business. Many are already producing juice. To the centre party: I record the proposal to decrease to 10,000 as the maximum volume of production, and also to limit the opening hours to the opening hours of the wine monopoly. I can't push myself to say anything but that it's a little petty. There will be a restriction on these producers and suppliers who mainly supply to tourists and who like to serve the products with food and other cultural experiences. Such restrictions will constitute obstacles, also linked to companies and other locally based activities. Evaluation – yes, we could have done so far. But I don't think we'll see a large spread of these types of businesses in the next few years. Production is too demanding for that. One of the challenges in the law here is also the control authorities, which I don't think we have debated so much, because it will be that today's control authorities have little opportunity to check whether the alcohol is fermented or whether it is alcohol-based. I hope it won't be a big challenge, and I trust these producers will use the local raw materials and fermentation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3701	SV is largely in agreement with the Committee's recommendation, but also supports the Workers' Party's additional proposals. It's very important that this doesn't challenge the wine monopoly arrangement. We think it makes sense — good nutrition and alcohol culture — that we allow these actors to get a chance, and see many possibilities in it. The limit in the number of litres mainly indicates that this is a secondary industry that can make a greater use of available natural resources, and that one can develop new salsa revenue and new holistic travel concepts, such as: I myself have visited similar kinds of schemes abroad, and here we have a lot to learn in Norway. SV supports the proposals of the Labour Party – we support both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2 - and in addition the recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3708	I would like to refer to the Health Declaration, where it was stated that the government will: ‘open for product samples and restricted alcohol sales directly from niche producers and, if necessary, work to amend EU legislation in the field’. The government has followed this up with the proposed scheme, which will allow small producers to sell alcoholic beverages as a supplement to other industries. The main lines of the alcohol policy are fixed. This includes, inter alia: the preservation of the sales monopoly and the authorisation system for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages. However, in the interests of food and product development, there is a need to look at the possibility of making adjustments that will increase little accessibility and challenge the monopoly system. The proposal to open up the sale of selected beverages above 4,7 % by volume of alcohol directly from the producer is such an adjustment. In Norway, we have a high level of protection justified on grounds of public health. This allows us to use, in part, extensive alcohol policy instruments to limit consumption and damage caused by consumption. This includes, inter alia: a strict ban on advertising, age limits, opening hours, authorisation schemes and the wine monopoly system. The justification for the wine monopoly in the EEA law is based on public health considerations and presupposes that the scheme is part of a restrictive, comprehensive and consistent alcohol policy. It has been very important in the formulation of the proposal to ensure a continuing high level of protection and preservation of the wine monopoly system. As part of the follow-up to the Government Platform, it was determined whether it would be possible to open up the sale of beverages with more than 4.7 % by volume of alcohol, without altering or weakening the current monopoly system. The conclusion is that the answer depends on the alcoholic beverages involved. For the trade in alcoholic beverages covered by the EEA Agreement, such as beer and spirits, it will be difficult to open up for sale without being contrary to EEA law. However, according to the investigators, opening up the sale of alcoholic beverages not covered by the scope of the EEA Agreement is unlikely to have an impact on EEA law. There is even greater reason to base this on restrictions on such a scheme, and that is what is done in the proposal. In this context, the proposal covers only products not covered by the EEA Agreement. In order to ensure that the restrictive Norwegian alcohol policy in general and the Vinmonopoly in particular are not challenged, the proposed system is limited. It is proposed that the products should not be made stronger by the addition of spirits and that the products may not be mixed with alcoholic products other than those proposed to be opened for sale. In addition, it is proposed to require one third of the inputs to be self-produced and it is proposed to impose a volume restriction on sales equivalent to 15000 litres per producer per year. The scale of the scheme is therefore assumed to be such that it cannot be said to have an impact on public health or on alcohol policy. We believe that the system will not challenge the consistency of the Norwegian alcohol policy, nor will it challenge the wine monopoly, either in fact or in law. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Committee asks the Government to: ‘provide that the Vinmonopole facilitates, within the applicable legislation, the sale of products from local small-scale producers and that necessary adjustments and adjustments are made to purchase schemes, shops and online shops to ensure this.’ I will point out that the EEA Agreement obliges the Vinmonopolet to treat all producers in the EEA and EU territory in a non-discriminatory manner, and that therefore the Government cannot, or will not, instruct the Vinmonopolet to do so. However, I can assure the Committee that I am aware that the Vinmonopolet has already taken several measures to ensure that smaller producers and local products do not come out worse than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3739	The Council of State has praised a plan of drugs adopted in this Chamber, and in that plan of action it is the most focused on treatment and aftercare and the least focus on prevention. What do the State Councils think about Actis, Juvente, the Association against Drugs, the State Institute for Drug Research, the Health Directorate and the LO having concerns about what has been the success of Norwegian alcohol policy, namely the role of the wine monopoly? What does the Council of State think about their concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3746	I perceive that with the envelope that has been made, and also with further ramifications that were made after the consultation round, what we have recommended to the Stortinget does not challenge what we have recommended to adopt today, the wine monopoly system, and this is based on a good basis. If it had challenged the wine monopoly regime, the proposal would not have been promoted either because we are obliged, among other things, to do so. of the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party to take care of the main instruments of alcohol policy, and so there is the monopoly of wine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3751	When the government changed the tax-free quota last year, I think it was, and at the same time it did so that one could not make water for wine, but tobacco for wine, it resulted in decreasing sales figures for the wine monopoly. Why is it less likely that these sales figures will not change now when one can open up for sale at nearly the smallest poles more places in Norway versus the change in the tax-free quota? On what other basis does he think it will not apply now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3756	The change proposed here concerns locally produced niche products which are likely to be sold mainly to tourists and others visiting the farm, and it was also found in the consultation round that it does not challenge the role of the wine monopoly in relation to the large product labels sold to the population, such as: wine and the areas covered by the EEA Agreement. This is a completely different market, but which is nevertheless important for the few who do so in being able to offer a comprehensive one, among other things. travel life product.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3761	I hear what the Council of State says, but here has a simultaneous opening time that is beyond the opening time of the grocery store, with the sale of a product that has a higher alcohol content than what the grocery store sells and that one can buy for a longer period of time. For those who labor, there's a room for action here. What does the Council of State think, when we put forward plans to meet and achieve a target of reducing Norwegian alcohol consumption, and at the same time it is increasing? I don't think this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3766	It is clear that those who will have the opportunity to sell under this scheme have the same responsibility as others who sell alcohol, and for example. be aware that a person does not sell to persons who are either underage or clearly addicted. This is also the case here with a niche product that is important in a whole range of ways. within a travel product or as part of making locally produced food and drink, and I have no faith that it will have an extent that will challenge public health issues relating neither to general public health nor to people with a drug addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3771	The proposal refers to an EEA legal assessment on which the legislative proposal is based, by Arnesen and Sejerstedt. It is stressed that the proposal itself cannot be seen as a threat in the ‘EEA legal sense’, but that it brings together developments in the ‘Norwegian alcohol policy’. [[together with, for example, multiple pole sales, increased tax free movement, authorisation for increased marketing and other conditions]] I think these are pretty clean words for the money, and I wonder what the council will do to prevent his alcohol policy from being a threat to the direct-sale system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3778	It is the overall alcohol policy that is crucial here, and that is also why the changes we are proposing in this area are very limited, precisely because we are concerned that the external framework for the changes we are proposing is about having a safe framework, so that we do not have a threat to the wine monopoly system, which we believe is very good with the changes proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3784	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3789	It was the representative Ruth Grung who made me draw, for a moment I put again with the impression that it was the Hordaland Workers' Party that had sort of settled in this matter. Even I've had the pleasure of visiting especially the three producer farms in Ulvik repeatedly, no later than 14 days ago, and fortunately I can assure you that it's not the impression they're left with in there, that it's the Hordaland Workers' Party that has arranged this. But let's enjoy what has happened here after all. I am also reminded that a former Central Party State Council said that it was not possible to achieve this, because the EEA Agreement prevented this. Now I understand from the representative Kjersti Toppe that it is just the EEA connection that makes this possible, and then we can enjoy it. I would just like to say that I support the comments of the representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth. But we'd rather be careful about what's here, and about which there's a broad political consensus. There is a good step on the way, and the local manufacturers are very pleased with this. But there was one thing I wondered about, and it was the Workers' Party's proposal to follow the opening hours of the Vinmonopole for sales from these farms. As far as I know, the Vinmonopole has different opening times depending on where you live. Now there is no wine monopoly in Ulvik, for example, the nearest wine monopoly is on Voss, and it has shorter opening time than for example. The wine monopoly in Bergen. So I'm wondering a little bit about how you've thought it's going to be handled. Anyway, when the wine monopoly on Voss, which is the nearest one, closes half past five, it's so that you get to these farms at half past five, you can't buy anything. I have to say that it is a very unreasonable restriction, which I do not understand the logic of. But as I said, let's enjoy the progress that takes place after all. Then I am absolutely convinced that this system might be expanded gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3802	I could choose not to say anything, but since a representative from the same city as I thought I was so honest in my opening and said that this is a matter we've been working for too long, and that we boasted that we have now found a solution, I also included all parties, minus the Christian People's Party. That's at least the tone I'm used to having – both on the Hordalands bench and in the committee. With regard to opening hours, on the other hand, the principle, and also with regard to the delivery of goods by post, is that they must follow the guidelines that are attached to the Vinmonopolet, which are schemes existing in other areas, which I was quite surprised when I got acquainted with them, but it is a principle of non-discrimination with regard to the sale of alcohol of over 4.7 pst. So that's to ensure the arrangement through it. We still think it's a little strange that you don't follow those principles. I hope it was a good update – and I hope you still understand the mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3809	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3823	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3830	The Committee has examined the proposal of the Christian People's Party on a comprehensive plan of escalation for children and young people's mental health, an area I can be sure that an overall committee is committed to, has strong opinions about, and wishes to contribute to, raising further in the years to come. The Committee has worked a lot on this matter, both because the individual proposals that were promoted are important elements individually, and also because we should have a complete and overall look at the choices we are making in relation to the future of children and young people. From studies conducted among children and young people, we know that one in five tells us that they have mental disorders in their everyday lives. It tells us that we all have a job to do. It's also a job that requires a multidisciplinary effort across the levels we have in society. And of course, this effort is not just about healthcare. We need to meet children and young people's challenges with good action within schools, within families, culture, volunteering and child protection, and we need to raise children's needs also in the field of justice. The Committee has worked closely together on important proposals that will have an impact on the overall health of children and young people, including mental health, in the years to come. The Committee unanimously supports the proposal to ask the government to consider a requirement for municipalities to clearly define who in a municipality has the overall responsibility for the assistance services of children and young people. Furthermore, the entire Committee endorses the need to ensure that children and young people receive drug-free treatment when professional recommendations so require. The Committee has also agreed to call on the government by June 2017 to present a comprehensive cross-sectoral strategy for the mental health of children and young people. Of course, in the context of such a strategy, the main characters, children and young people should be consulted, and their experiences should be listened to. The strategy shall provide the basis for an economically obliging escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people. There are also some minority proposals in the case, and I think it is certain that those who support these proposals will explain them in more detail later in the debate. To the Right, it's a happy day today. For it is not just the Christian People's Party that has received what they have asked for. We are also very pleased with the decisions we make. We know that our government has embarked on a significant escalation to strengthen the services of children and young people – in the field of justice, in the field of family life, in the field of culture, in school, in kindergarten and in health. We therefore look forward to a comprehensive strategy that will provide us with important answers as to where we stand and where we should go. We all agree on the goal. It's about getting kids and young people safe, getting a education and job — and living a good life. Our government has raised mental health into public health work, we have strengthened the health and school health service through the free revenues of municipalities of 668 million. DKK 3 years and in addition for 2016 earmarked 100 million. kr to the same services. We have allocated funds to recruit 150 new psychologists in the municipalities. Good and accessible assistance for children and young people is as early as possible from the objectives of both the primary health notification, the drug escalation plan and the public health communication that has been widely endorsed here in Stortinget. The fact that we have a government that delivers well in this area doesn't mean that it doesn't have to do any more. That is why we also want the waiting time for children in mental health protection to be even shorter, so we want children’s and young people’s psychiatric services to try out more out-patient activities in the municipalities, and therefore we want changes to make children in the child protection service feel that they are receiving the health care they require. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right Party and the Advance Party have listened to children and young people. We have listened to, among others: Anika and Fredrik and all the other Psychiatric Health professionals in the Change Factory, we have listened to the National Association for Children's Protection, and many, many more can be mentioned. Last time Norway had a civil government, more specifically in 2003, seven government councils joined forces on the strategy plan... together on mental health... with 100 measures that would all help to strengthen children and the mental health of young people. It included strategies and measures aimed at children and young people, at children, young people and families at risk, and at children and young people who already had mental problems and disorders. I'm glad we're now, under this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3856	The working party will have a new multidisciplinary escalation plan for prevention and early action for mental health. Psychiatric health is the biggest public health challenge of our time, and according to the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, that society costs more than 185 billion. kr per year. Nearly 1 million Nordics struggle psychologically to the extent that it affects how they work in everyday life. 260,000 children have had such problems that care is affected, and nearly 70,000 children and young people suffer from mental disorders requiring treatment. There is a need for a new escalation plan for prevention and early intervention for mental health, and the starting point must be in the arenas where people live their lives. Actions need to be put in place before the problems develop, and whenever assistance is needed, they should be available quickly. Good kindergartens, good maternity care, good health centres and a good and reinforced school health service are some of the measures. The Labour Party has proposed that all students learn about mental health at school. We believe that knowledge of mental health needs to be integrated into the school's subjects in the same way, so that students are fully trained in their physical and mental health, and we need to have a school health service to meet the young and the young. Today, it is the school health service that meets most of the students when it comes to mental health. The Labour Party believes that we need to strengthen the school health service, but we also need to develop the offer to meet the needs of young people. In Nord-Trøndelag – excuse me, in Trøndelag, where I come from, we have a unique system of enhanced school health services in all the eleven secondary schools in the old Nord-Trøndelag. Through this scheme, all secondary school students have the opportunity to get help and conversations with caregivers from childhood and youth psychiatry at their own school. The scheme is widely used by students and, in addition, children’s and young people’s psychiatric staff, BUPs, attend meetings with the school’s student services and contribute to improving the school’s knowledge of mental health. The BUP comes out to the schools to help, not to take over someone else's tasks. Oslo also has good experience in such a way of organizing the ministry. School health services and family assistance must be organised in ways that bring together resources. The health centre and the school health service are good low-threshold services. They reach everyone and have high confidence in the population. Health centres should have several types of professional competence in order to ensure an overall offer and to be able to identify more serious problems such as violence, assault and drug abuse. The Committee shall deliver a unanimous opinion. That's good. A field as important as mental health for children and young people needs a boost and predictability in order to develop services and speed up the prevention measures we know have an impact. During the Committee's discussion, the Workers' Party also promoted proposals on quality standards for health centres and school health services, more outpatient teams of children's and young people's psychiatry in the field of child protection and simplification of legislation promoting the coordination of services. The Labour Party would stress that Norway has committed itself to six quantitative objectives for mental health by 2020. We think it's urgent to show that we're taking these goals seriously. The previous escalation plan was largely positive and is due to three to four rather important criteria: quantitative measures with timescales, earmarked funds and approved plans and quality requirements prior to the release of the funds. With that, I will address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3877	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3880	The trick we can do is build strong children rather than repair them, and this responsibility must be borne by the municipalities. In a report from NOVA that was published yesterday, we can read that about 60,000 children are subjected to severe violence by their parents. Municipalities must invest in child-growth conditions through maternity care, kindergarten and health centres, as well as by creating a good and inclusive school with a focus on bullying and alienation. That is why we have helped the municipalities a lot by providing extra transfers to the health sisters and to strengthen the competence of the teachers. Children who master the school and thrive on their working day are an important contribution to building safe and healthy children. Unfortunately, reporting shows a decrease in the number of years of mental health work for children and young people in municipalities, under the red-green regime. The SlNTEF report 2015 shows a decrease in the number of annual works by 13 pst. from 2007 to 2013. The Progress Party has been committed to reducing the waiting times for treatment, and we are pleased that it has fallen in most areas, thanks to clear political leadership, increased appropriations and the introduction of free treatment options. When disease occurs, we will meet young people with sufficient capacity, individualised offers and good coordination and follow-up. The government will continue its work already under way to improve these services at all levels. We inherited major deficiencies in the fields of drugs, mental health, rehabilitation, care for the elderly and long queues for hospitals. It's demanding for all parties, patients, employees and municipalities, when we require a lift everywhere in a short time. However, there is reason to recall that mental health has been raised in public health policy and that a number of measures are in place to increase both the quality and capacity of health care for children and young people. Increased recruitment of psychologists in municipalities is mentioned in all the notifications and is one of several means of achieving set targets. Then I find that the Workers' Party is concerned that the municipalities are setting up a few psychologists to meet legal requirements, and that it is necessary to establish a government sub-funding. Then I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has been opposed to demanding that municipalities have at all psychologists, and that state part-financing has been introduced by this government. It is worrying that many children and young people become caste balls in the system, and that different help agencies in the municipalities do not have enough cooperation. It is a unanimous committee that therefore believes it is important that the responsibility for the health care of children and young people in the municipalities is defined and known, and we propose this. Then we have a concern about child protection. These are children and young people with high and complex needs. A child who was under the care of child protection told me that she had moved 16 times. To me it was incomprehensible that it was possible to switch homes for a child so many times. Then it turned out that some of these movements were to institutions where she received mental health care. But for a child who has changed residence several times, a treatment scheme is also seen as a move. The government has entrusted Buffdir and the Health Directorate with the task of monitoring the experience of children with health care and summarising experience with joint institutions. A multidisciplinary working group will now review this and consider concrete proposals to ensure better coordination. Then again there is an overall committee that is concerned about the increase in the use of sleeping medicine and the means against anxiety and depression among young people. It is therefore good that the long struggle of user organisations for their own 24-hour units with drug-free treatment is now a reality. There must be a well-founded professional recommendation and assessment for when minor patients receive addictive drugs, and never as a substitute for a lack of treatment. Then I would like to comment on a point that the Psychiatric Health professionals from the Change Factory have taught me, namely the fact that it has not been given that it is best for the child that parents should have insight into everything that is happening in the treatment context. The Progress Party therefore considers that changes to child protection legislation and the Mental Health Act may be necessary. The government, through cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has raised mental health, and we have a lot to be proud of in this area. An overall strategy for the mental health of children and young people must include the most relevant with the plans already adopted, such as: the escalation plan for the drug field, the escalation plan for the fight against violence and sexual abuse, the strategy to reduce child poverty and the youth health strategy. The Progress Party believes that the many measures already in place and reported should be clear and clear signals that efforts to strengthen the health care of children and young people are already being stepped up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3914	It is a pleasure that there is a unanimous health and care committee that supports a holistic approach to the mental health of children and young people. When the Christian People's Party promoted the proposal for an offensive mental health promise for children and young people, we knew that this was something that engaged more than us in the committee. But that we stand together and now say that we should give priority to this through a comprehensive strategy and an economically obliging escalating plan is very joyful and no-one of course in a demanding time. The more clearly the commitment in this hall says that our kids – children and young people – are the most important thing for us. We can't give our kids a high-number shop when they need quick help. We can't risk children and young people who experience growing pain inside themselves being seen and heard or talked to. In previous plans and strategies, children and young people have often been forgotten or only been mentioned as part of something larger. Now let's put the kids first. That's good. We see that reporting from Kommune-Norway shows a worrying decrease in the number of annual work in the field of mental health for children and young people. A SINTEF report from 2015 shows that there has been a reduction in the number of annual work in municipalities for mental health work for children and young people, from around 3 000 annual works in 2007 to approx. 2 500 in 2013, a decrease of approx. 13 pst. We need a systematic strengthening of services in the municipalities. In the field of mental health protection, we see that the waiting time for children and young people has increased in several health regions. It's worrying. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people must be provided with the necessary resources for both daily and daily services, and more intensive attention must be paid to outpatient teams following up children and young people where they are located. An overall committee asks the government to consider a requirement that municipalities define who has the overall responsibility for the health of young people so that they do not become caste balls in the aid system. Responsibility must be clarified and cooperation between service areas strengthened. Unfortunately, too many young people are telling us that they are being offered pills instead of someone to talk to. It is not acceptable to give young addictive drugs such as sleep medicine and antidepressants when professional assessments suggest that there is a need for psychological or other assistance. Therefore, a unanimous committee calls on the government to ensure that children and young people receive drug-free treatment when professional recommendations so require. It is therefore very gratifying that there is also agreement to introduce comprehensive and targeted measures to reduce the prescription of these drugs and the use of addictive drugs. Both the trade and user organisations gave full support to the proposal in the hearing. The head of the Psychological Association called what we're together about today, a historical child lift: ‘We have seen a document that takes children and young people’s situation seriously.’ [[...]] This is not to be looked at in small parts. It is crucial for a good outcome to have children and young people's experiences and input into the design of both a cross-sectoral strategy and the escalation plan itself. We in this room have to be shoulder to shoulder, so that we get this done, and so that it doesn't become a paper that's in a drawer, but that's what we want and that's what we prioritise, both in money and, not least, in time. We believe that this promise can mean a difference for children and young people and the everyday lives of young people. That's why I think this day is really worth celebrating – for the sake of our kids. The Christian People's Party recommends that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3943	First, I would like to say that it is positive that the Christian People's Party has put forward a proposal on mental health. There were eleven points in the proposal that were quite specific – most of them are not re-enacted. The most important thing – point 1 of the representative’s proposal itself – was to ask the government to ‘promote a multidisciplinary and obliging escalation plan for mental health for children and young people funded by fresh, earmarked means’. What has been proposed today is that ‘a comprehensive cross-sectoral strategy for children and young people’s mental health, which includes individuals and communities, and which includes both health promotion, disease prevention and curative initiatives. The design of the strategy shall include the experience and advice of children and young people». The main question is: What is the difference between a strategy and an action plan? A strategy is more superior, a strategy doesn't have money with it. That's the big difference. The centre party was clear that we had supported a proposal for a concrete tightening plan with ear-marked funds. The Centre Party – together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left – makes a similar proposal in 2014 on a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan through new ear-marked means. Of course, there were votes for the Workers' Party and SV, but the proposal was voted down by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Party. At that time there was a parallel case from among others. Left hand that got multiples. The word was that one was to ‘establish an escalation for the first line of mental health services with a focus on quality, prevention and interaction with specialist health services’. It was also sold out as that now there would be a stepping-up for mental health. What happened was that when the state budget came last year, the government announced that the proposal had already been carried out in the primary health message and through the state budget, and cork Left or other party protested against it. Then there's a new proposal, which has been to a new strategy that's coming. Of course, the centre party supports this proposal. But I have to say that I can't understand that mental health should not have a stepping-up plan – when the area has a stepping-up plan, when the rehabilitation field has its own stepping-up plan – but a strategy. Then several representatives have done well that there is not only little growth, there is a reduction in annual efforts in municipalities, and especially for children and young people. In order to get an increase in the number of additions, we don't really need a strategy, we need new ear-marked funds, so that the municipalities can build up the service supply. I hope that the Storting will follow this in a clearer way, because I'm afraid the strategy won't be clear enough. The central party will also support the other proposals for decisions in the resolution, i.e. I and II, that municipalities should define who is responsible for the assistance services of children and young people. It says ‘estimated’, but we think it is a very good proposal, and also this with drug-free treatment. Then the Labour Party has three proposals, which we have not considered in the vote, but we can support proposal No. 2 and 3 that paediatric psychiatric outpatient clinics should have an obligation to provide outpatient teams to the Child Welfare Service, and that better coordination of child protection and mental health services is needed. The central party has a proposal in the vote, which I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3969	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3972	First of all, thank you to the Christian People's Party, which has promoted this matter, but also to the government parties – the Right Party and the Advance Party – with which we have had a good process together to get to the historic moment, as the Psychologists' Association calls today's decision. The Committee also agrees, and there is a strong commitment from the Stortinget to focus on the mental health of children and young people. The left considers that the main point of the proposal is the cross-sectoral strategy plan that we have promoted in connection with the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which is in the matter today, and which is item No. 1 of the proposal. The strategy plan is what will lead to the great promise for the mental health of children and young people, and which professionals have long asked for. As several representatives have been involved here, in particular Kari Kjenaas Kjos from the Progress Party, there are many actors who are currently responsible for the mental health of children and young people, and they need to find out more about the individual who needs help. Today there are too many doors to knock on and coordinate for individual patients or relatives on their own. For many years, the left has called for a new escalation plan for mental health. In 2014, we received, as the representative Toppe said, a majority in order for the government to investigate an escalation plan, with special priority for children and young people. The cross-sectoral strategy plan adopted today, which will also be followed up in the budgets ahead, is therefore what will lead to that escalation. It may not be entirely coincidental that the Psychologists' association named Left of the Party with the best policy in the election campaign programmes we went to elections in 2013. We got dice roll 6. They see today that we deliver. Based on our program, we deliver, together with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, on a case-by-case basis in the field of mental health. This concerns the law-enforcement of a municipal psychologist from 2020, and that is the health plan, where we gained psychological competence in all paediatric and juvenile medicine wards in hospitals. Soon there will also be a youth health strategy. When the Left promoted this proposal, it was because we thought it was absolutely necessary to focus most on health promotion work outside the health services and in the municipalities. The aim is to have as little as possible in the specialist health service. That was the background to our proposal. We also support several of the Christian People's Party's points in the proposal for a representative, but we think that they focus a little too much on seriously ill, and not on how we avoid children and young people getting sick. Of course, a good offer is also important for the sick, but then we have to prevent, so that we can free up resources for those groups that need it the most. We support the point made in the proposal on the right to drug-free treatment, but we fear that medicines can quickly become a cheap and easy-to-use – but in the long term animals and poor – solution for those who are mentally struggling. We have to avoid that for the most part. The left also believes it is very important to define who has the overall responsibility in the municipalities, so that we avoid children and young people becoming caste balls in a well-meaning but fragmented relief service, or worst of all – that they never get caught up. As I said, the left is very pleased that an overall health committee supports the Left's proposal today. For the Left, the cross-sectoral focus is important. We fear that we do not reach the goal of preventing more to repair less. The cross-sectoral strategy plan, which will cover individuals and communities, and which will include both health promotion, disease prevention and curative initiatives, will be able to lift the whole field together. That's absolutely necessary. Prevention rather than repair is a mantra for us in the left. It's a commitment. Both in the context of the primary health notification, public health notification, the Drug Action Plan and in many other proposals, the Left has focused on health promotion and prevention activities outside health services. The need for prevention is indisputable. It's in the first few years that we have to invest the big resources. So to the Center Party, which calls for a ringing and a binding economic escalation plan, and that it must apply to mental health in line with drugs. Yes, it will now come. Then we have to play the ball back: for eight years, the Center Party put in government without delivering an escalating plan for neither intoxication nor mental health, and even the golden rule of mental health has been abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e3999	I would like to thank the proposers for an important matter to raise, and as SV is fully behind. It is important to give broad priority to the lives and health of children and young people. The most important actors in this work are the municipalities, which have the most important tasks related to children and young people from birth – it is the health centre, kindergarten, school, school services, etc. etc. It is clear that all cuts, all the down-priority of the municipal economy will also affect children and young people. Then there's kind of a little elephant in this room, that's the situation that the municipalities are facing today with the blue-blue. In the SV's alternative budget, we've found room for over 7 billion. In addition to the efforts of the government, which illustrates our ambitions for the municipality area in general, with many major reforms, especially linked to children and young people, and also how bad it is in the community economy with the blue-blue ones. You may have as many soft ears as you like, but if you keep cutting your local authorities, you're just not going to get them. So back to this proposal. I thought it was exciting to follow developments in this matter, when the proposal came in. It contained many good suggestions, but had a strong emphasis on the treatment page, with protection and how the specialist services etc. would come in. There was also a cross-sectoral approach to becoming something more in the direction of a plan. The original proposal is almost not going to be able to figure out what we're dealing with here today. I think the committee has worked well, it should have all the credit for it, and it seems that many parties have been involved in developing the proposal as it stands here. We thought it was a'stake-proposal' – there is no 'jump'. There's no obligation -- we're waiting in suspense on a plane that might come in a while, it might not happen within this super-sized period once that he actually gets the effect. So this is a long run. We can cheer on a plan, but that's what we can do. I also thought that the proposals that come from the Labour Party and the Center Party are good, and we're going to support them. Finally, it's extremely important to have a broad approach to this. The treatment dimension in this is obvious. As soon as the child is born, the preventive work is quickly forgotten and re-prioritized. Whole maternity care, the arrangement around it, we know that we have enormous significance for how to move on with the child. It could be as easy as helping a newly-baked mother or a newly-baked father to actually be a good mother and a good father. Little things. If not, it can have enormous consequences for the child both in the short term and in the long term. This is a lot of reason why SV has gone in to set new standards for the entire course from maternity care through health centres to the school services. Based on the available knowledge from research projects, we know that one is very understaffed. According to the guidebooks, the guidelines for the various services, we know that these services are understaffed, and they are no longer manned by a weak community economy either. Setting new standards for key roles in the welfare state has been important for SV, and we believe that one of the first things that must be given priority is what is about children, because we know that is very important. So I could have said a lot about the whole race, etc., but now it's evening. Thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4022	I want to start by thanking the proposers for their commitment to children and young people with mental health challenges, as well as for the very clear support from both the government parties and the cooperation parties in the Stortinget to be aware of the priority of children and young people’s health – and the mental health in particular. In the youth health strategy, which I am about to present, we take seriously young people's perceptions and thoughts about their own health. Many of the recordings we've got are just about mental health. Many children and young people struggle with mental health problems and problems affecting both quality of life and concentration. At the same time, today's generation of young people is the freshest, healthiest and most sensible ever. It may appear to be a contrast, but behind the façade, there are both ‘fine pike’ struggling with stress and pressure, and ‘standing outside’ boys who may have family, social, health and educational challenges. And let me just underline: there are nice pikes and boys of both sexes standing outside. I think we should be careful, so we don't want the best to be the enemy of good. Too many action plans and escalation plans targeting the same services do not help to lift the disciplines, but can instead create confusion and water down the impact of good instruments. That is why I am pleased that Stortinget has said that we should start by making a strategy. For proposers, there is a right to the need for more resources, the proper use of resources and the previous priority of children and young people’s health. To achieve this, we need to concentrate efforts on the services that we have already built up, and also use the ordinary means. That is what brings lasting changes, less red tape and more certainty. To succeed in this, a strategy can be a very good tool. Soon, we will present an overall youth health strategy, which will give direction to a more youth-friendly health service for those who are aged between the kosebams and the mocket beans. The strategic approaches we present there underpin the government’s commitment to health stations and school health services, the recruitment of psychologists and the continued strengthening of the provision of specialist health services. But we can't, and we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we don't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, We're not going to treat anyone who knows sadness or anxiety. In the Public Health Communication, we pushed out the course to also raise mental health into public health work. Health promotion measures such as good kindergartens and schools, well-functioning local settings and inclusive teams and associations are at least as important as five a day and cycling to school. The prevention of bullying, alienation and mental health problems must be given equal attention as much as the prevention of overweight and infectious diseases. Public health measures need to be as important as treatment provision. It can just help us lift up. To bet whole-heartedly on children and young people is not only right from an ethical point of view, it's also probably the best investment a society can make, and it's the best management of our society's most important resource. Therefore, the decisions we are making today represent a good follow-up to the clear commitment to children and the mental health of young people who are already in the process, but who can also be greatly enhanced. Then I have to say that someone here hears posts that were supposed to indicate that there was a problem in the municipalities with regard to the local economy. That's not the case. There have always been major tasks in the municipalities that one wants to solve, but the local economy has not been better in ten years, and we see that one of the areas where the municipalities use the increased space for action is to hire more people in health and care. I'm very pleased, because that's where the biggest challenges are now, and that's also where the greatest opportunities are to help people as early as possible, so that you don't get so sick that you need specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4042	I fully agree with the Council of State that the most important investment we can make is investing in children and young people's mental health. It will probably also in many ways be the cheapest investment we make, given the possible future costs and the deterioration of life of each one. The working party has been very concerned with strengthening school health services and wants to earmark funds. Now it is clear from the majority's position in the case and also from information provided by the Health Directorate that there is a subsidy pot in the 2016 budget of 100 million. kr, which is referred to as ringing, i.e. searchable means. Is there any reason why a relatively heavy and bureaucratic way of strengthening school health has been chosen? Can the Council of State say anything about why you have chosen to do it this way, money for them with the best application?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4049	Now it is that the Workers' Party has repeatedly proposed ringing in this area. Earmarking means just application-based schemes. But that's quite right: in the budget agreement that was concluded in Stortinget, our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, were able to leverage to strengthen the further investment that had been made, at 667 million. DKK for health and school health services, but also SEK 100 million. kr which is ear-marked. But they're earmarked in that way that it's the municipalities that can prove that they've used the free resources for the purpose, that get this as a reward on top. This not only makes this a reward scheme at the top, but it also helps to ensure that the municipalities use the growth in free resources they have obtained for this, precisely for the purpose, and that is a very good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4054	It's a ‘very good arrangement’, says the Council of State, unlike the former psychiatry funds, which were defined by clear criteria, and then you got money when you fulfilled them – clear framework for the municipalities to deal with and well informed, as it was part of a larger escalation plan. I took a phone call to my home municipality and those who work in the children's and youth unit there, and this was not a grant scheme they had ever heard of. To strengthen the school health service, there must be well-informed arrangements with simple application criteria that ensure quality and ensure that the money comes to their destination. Does the Council of State think that this is a good way to strengthen school health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4061	The main strengthening of school health services has been through the increase in the free resources of 667 million. kr. It goes to all the municipalities according to the youth criteria. It is the system that the Workers' Party has now spent several years criticising. This is the main effort to get to the municipalities. But then we're also busy giving something extra to the municipalities that show that they're really prioritizing this. It's a well-lit system, it's a very simple system to apply for. It's freshly lit. Your municipality may not have discovered it yet, but very many other municipalities are at least about to discover it. That would be a good reward arrangement. The alternative, taking this money in and not having it as free money, but earmarking it all, would be to punish the municipalities that have done a good job, and reward the municipalities that have done a bad job. That would be the consequence of the alternative proposal made by the Workers' Party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4068	Two years ago, a decision was taken in the United Kingdom to ask the government to draw up a contingency plan for the first line of mental health services, and the government announced to the Government of the State budget that this was carried out in the primary health notification and in the State budget. Then there is a new debate here today. I hear the representative from the Left, who is a co-operation party to the government, saying that an escalating plan will come. Then I thought this would be quite confusing – many proposals on the escalation plan and then a strategy. Is there going to be a stepping-up plan for mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4073	I think, as I also said in my speech, that the order on which the majority of the committee has based, and which we now understand, has unanimous agreement, namely that a starting point for a holistic approach, is a very sensible approach. For many different action plans are already being implemented in this area, and it is also the case that getting a strategy will be the best basis for assessing the scope and content of an escalation plan in this area. But then it's not like the government and the cooperation parties are still waiting for a strategy. It is important – that is the most important thing – that one of the three state budgets that we have now agreed on has implemented all the necessary measures to strengthen these services: the designation of funds for psychologists in municipalities, the strengthening of health and school health services, a youth health strategy that is soon to be provided, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4080	In its article, the Council of State stated as an argument not to have a plan of escalation in this field that it was not so good to have so many plans of escalation at the same time. I understood that having an escalating plan in the drug field and rehabilitation is an argument for not having an escalating plan for mental health. I can't quite understand that argument, because we know that when it comes to drugs and mental health, there are two sides to the same thing. There are many patients who have both a mental illness and a rusidy. Having an escalating plan only on one and not the other did not seem professionally justified to me. So I want to ask again, wouldn't it have been natural when you have an escalating plan in the field of drugs, at the same time having a concrete escalation plan for mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4085	The representative has not understood my post correctly, because that is not what I said either. But that's how the government, among other things, as a follow-up to several other decisions taken in cooperation with our cooperation parties, budgetary decisions, etc., work with a number of action plans and strategies relating to children and young people and their growing-up conditions. It would therefore be wise to work out a strategy in the area of children’s and young people’s mental health before also assessing the way in which an escalation work is to be done, so that a person can see it as a whole. That's what I also believe is the background to the decision being made today, while we're not waiting for it, but we're already expanding the specific services for this group in the municipalities, because it's also absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4091	The school health service has been mentioned by several in the debate here today. It is, of course, an important service to prevent mental distress for children and young people. Babysitting has no mention, and it may appear to be a foreign word, perhaps, but will probably be one of the sectors where we are going to build up services in the coming years. Some municipalities have even started by moving the 4-year-old control to kindergartens and meeting children where they are, in their natural environment. A few municipalities have also organised the school health service and the PP service, as well as other services aimed at families with young children and children together. What does the Council of State think about such structural changes and the strengthening of the capacity of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4096	I very much agree with the representative that there is a lot to pick up in the municipalities by seeing these services more closely in relation to the whole age group of children and young people. This is also why the efforts made in this area by the government and the cooperation parties have been made not only in the school health services but also in health centres, and the municipalities have had a great deal of freedom with regard to the subject areas in which they are to be given local priority and the way in which they are to be built up. At the same time, as a follow-up to the primary health notification, we have also raised funds for municipalities that want to get money to investigate and stimulate the very kind of co-location of these services, among others. to look at the possibilities. Because I fully agree that children in kindergarten also have a strong need to get good health care from the municipality. Most people who face a mental health challenge get it for the first time in their childhood and youth, and it is very important to intervene as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4103	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4108	Focusing on children and young people’s health and growth is both a sensible and a good investment and therefore also an important part of the government’s goal of creating the patient’s healthcare. So much thanks to the proposers for the opportunity to remind the Storting of the many measures already in place. In the 2014–2016 budgets, we strengthened the free resources of the municipalities by 667.7 million. towards the health centre and the school health service. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left for 2016 we allocated another 100 million. have earmarked the same services. As part of the establishment of treatment teams in municipalities, 145 million were allocated in the 2016 budget. kr for the recruitment of psychologists. The allocation provides room for 150 new psychologists in the municipalities, who will cooperate closely with the health centre and the school health service. There are also notified legal requirements on psychological competence in all municipalities from 2020. To further strengthen prevention, we have raised mental health into public health policy, reduced the golden rule of specialist health services and reversed the cuts that were taken by the red-greens towards mental health in school. I look forward to the government presenting the notified youth health strategy, a strategy for a more youth-friendly health service, as the Council of State indicated in its statement. While in the government we have strengthened the supply of mentally ill people, I am concerned to read the data from the Register of Recipes, which shows that during the period 2005–2014 there was a serious increase in the use of antidepressants among young people aged 15 to 19. The figures refer to an increase of 28 pst among young men and women, respectively. and 37 pst. These developments are serious and need to be stopped. I have great faith that we will succeed, but unfortunately it takes time to turn a shaken shot. That Health Minister Bent Höie has close and good cooperation with Psychiatric HealthThe professionals at the Change Factory are positive. This is young people who talk hot to be able to provide drug-free treatment for mental problems when professional recommendations so require. There are young people who know the problem, and I think the Minister of Health likes to listen to it. It is positive that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, agree that the government should present an overall strategy for the mental health of children and young people, one of which will be to ensure that children and young people receive drug-free treatment, and that comprehensive and targeted measures will be put in place to reduce the prescription and use of addictive sleeping drugs and antidepressants among children and young people. The strategy will be added to the fact that we have also agreed on a stepping-up plan for care and a stepping-up plan for combating violence against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4125	An overall cross-sectoral strategy plan shall end up in a priority and action plan. Our biggest challenge has been that one has not managed to get things across sectorially. We work against children and young people from many sectors, both national and local: justice, school, families with children, child protection and health. Our kids could be at risk of getting between these chairs. That is why the majority now wants to say that we need to have an overall strategy plan that looks at this cross-sectorally, and then we need to prioritise the money and cooperation in an action plan that is a stepping-up plan to ensure that the young do not fall between two chairs. We might have to change something in the area of justice. Laws may need to be amended. Here's a lot of things, and we have to see where we're going to put the bump. The Christian People's Party has shown this through many things about children and young people. We proposed an action plan against violence against children. We were betting on the children's houses, and the Stortinget was there. We've been busy with quality and enough adults in kindergarten. We've been busy with several teachers from the 1st to the 4th. class. We've been concerned that the asylum seekers will be met, and we've reached a mental health plan for children. Why? It is because more sectors now see that we need to coordinate, because despite so many measures, we have never had so many sick children and young people. We have to prevent that. Otherwise, we will never achieve the goal of even fewer adults who become mentally ill. That's why I'm very happy that we're now together on this. I know that we all believe that our kids are the most important thing we have, and then we have to prevent them from falling between two chairs. And not least, we can coordinate all the services we spend money on, so that we use our funds properly. I am sure we have more than this to spend on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4134	I take the word to follow up the line change with the council. The School Health Service has been very concerned about strengthening the Labour Party, and not, as the Council of State claims, criticising the general income of the municipalities. No, the Labour Party, in addition to strengthening the free income of municipalities, wants to earmark funds for the school health service. The majority of the parties have then referred to an earmarking of 100 million. kr. I tried to challenge the Council of State on this scheme. According to the Health Directorate, this was a grant scheme that was announced this year to balance the differences in secondary school, i.e. reserved for high school health services, with a call deadline of 12 March. On the Health Directorate's pages, it says that you've had a pot of 28.4 million. kr. In fact, I think the Council of State could have made this clear, especially when he makes accusations against the Workers' Party that we want to withdraw money from the free framework and designation of municipalities, in a qualitatively more committed way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4143	The National Audit Office’s report on the interaction reform, which was just discussed here in Stortinget, found that over the last few years – after the interaction reform has taken place since 2012 – there has been a ten percent reduction in the daily capacity of mental health. This has happened without the local authorities having increased their supply accordingly. 70 pst. by the municipalities, they say that they have slightly increased the number of pre-drug and psychiatry years. The big business and government that could have done was to stop the degradation that's going to happen before mental health, but we're seeing from all sides that this is going on. I am very concerned about that, and at least the government and the support parties should have taken up as a matter of their own. So I only have two comments on what has been said. When it is presented as a mere majority in Stortinget that supports a strategy, I would like to remind you that in the vote there is a whole committee behind the Roma decision, and at least the Central Party intends to support the proposal. When it comes to what this strategy will lead to in the debate here, I am just as wise after the debate. Now both the representative of the Left and the representative of the Christian People's Party have said that it will end up in an action plan, a priority plan, but the Council of State does not confirm it. But then it has to be. At least the centre party will support the strategy proposal and will be involved and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4152	First of all, there's no confusion about this. I fully agree with both the representative of Bollestad and the representative of Kjenseth said about how this should be followed up. So to the representative of Kjerkol in terms of different schemes related to designation: it's a scheme that's been earmarked for several years, that's on the construction of high school health services. It is a well-established system that has worked over several years. The new scheme that was put in place and also mentioned in the Committee’s budget statement from the 2016 budget is a reward scheme of 100 million. kr, which is from the Health Directorate, which goes to the municipalities that can show that they have used the money they have received – their share of the over 600 million. kr for the school health and health services – in line with the objective. And they can get money for an additional bet. That's good. Then there will be a reward scheme, and we hope that we will work well for the municipality to get an extra motivation to expand that service. It is important to bear in mind when questions have been asked about whether this policy works: Yes, it works. In 2013, there was a decrease in the number of yearly jobs in school health services and in health centres. So this government took over in a situation where there was a decrease in the number of years worked in this service. Already in the first year we saw a clear increase in the number of annual works. Now the municipalities over three years have shown that this was not only a one-off effort for the government and our cooperation parties, but a multi-annual effort, which also our cooperation parties in the negotiations on the budget have further strengthened, now last with this reward scheme at the top. It is a very sensible way to contribute to the proper use of the free resources, but with the municipal freedom that lies in assessing which part of the service and what subject area it is reasonable to put the money into – without penalising the municipalities that have already invested, but being rewarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4161	It is a little difficult to understand what Kjersti Toppe is trying to do, because we have a unanimous committee, in which we propose ‘a comprehensive, cross-sectoral strategy for children and young people’s mental health’, and we have a comitology, in which the Committee would stress that a comprehensive cross-sectoral strategy should provide the basis for an economically binding timetable for the escalation of children and young people’s mental health’. I can understand that the representative Toppe is impatient, but I just want to remind you that the drug escalation plan, the recovery plan that is coming, and the great strengthening of preventive health care funds for children and young people that we have seen in the last three years, mean enormous growth in relation to what happened in the last eight years. The representative of Bollestad explained very well why it is important to have a strategy that looks interdisciplinary and across several departments on what you need: where do we stand, and where do we go? I find it difficult to understand what the representative Toppe really is very uncertain about – whether it is not the most important thing to find disagreement in a matter where the Committee actually meets on incredibly important proposals and measures to ensure children and young people’s health in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4168	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4171	I'm going to have a short comment. That's the way we claim that this is an ear tagging scheme that is very little known in the municipalities. And in order to strengthen the community health service, the Council of State makes a mistake in its conclusion. He shows that this is a policy that works. Yes, but good government council, this is a system that – when we write June 9, 2016 – is still not working. So whether it works or not, I guess we'll see in the future. For the time being, I think that the Council of State is doing pretty little for a earmarking scheme of 100 million. kr, which he himself claims must strengthen the school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4177	When I listened to the debate, one would almost think that it was eight to ten years ago that the red-greens were in government, especially when I heard the representative Toppe. So it's barely three years since a new government took over, and I know there was a lot of discussion about both school health services and other challenges. Now the municipalities actually see that there's money coming to this, and there's a reward scheme that allows you to reward those who pay for school health services. That should be good. I am recording that the Workers' Party in particular says that they want to earmark money for this. When we do that, it's not good enough either. So they say this isn't known. I do not feel that this is not known in the municipalities. They are very aware that it is possible to apply for money, but then we also expect that they have actually spent the money that is already spent on this before they get new funds. We are committed to strengthening this, because it is important for children and young people. I have registered reward schemes that the Workers' Party has at least been very busy in other areas, so I would think that they were concerned about it in this area too, because we want results. With a reward scheme, we know that the municipalities see the possibilities, and they're going to take advantage of this opportunity, so I don't think this is a big problem. But it almost sounds as if there were both eight and ten years ago both the Center Party and the Workers' Party were in government. This government spends more money on free income for the municipalities, so we're making sure that funds are now earmarked for this important area, much more than the Red-Green government managed, both with the Toppe Party and the Workers' Party in government. It shows that there is a political will to give priority to important areas, and this is a very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4186	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4189	No, I'm not looking to find bugs. The centre party has a primary proposal for a stepping up plan. We are concerned when, in my view, the Council of State has not been clear about what this strategy is going to be. That's exactly what's in the mood, but I felt that it could also be said, and that the Council of State could say the same from the pulpit. But now it's coming out, and that's good. The reason why I'm impatient and waiting for a strategy is that there's now a change in mental health protection where a person builds up the daily capacity of hospitals. Should we wait for a strategy without being sure that the capacity of the municipalities is being built up now, I fear for the patient supply. That's the reason for the exposure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4196	I must almost try again. 667 million. kr is the increase that municipalities have received in free resources, but targeted at the health and health services. They are allocated to municipalities based on age composition, i.e. that the municipalities which have the most children and young people receive the most money. This is money that I think works, as opposed to what the Workers' Party has tried to say over a long period of time, that they do not work. If the representative of Kjerkol now listens to me, she will hear the answer to the question she had to me. That money has worked, we've seen a positive development. In addition, the government parties and the majority parties decided to invest 100 million. So I'm going to add up to $767 million. kr to this scheme. The 100 million. kr is an ear-marked scheme. I do not know what information Kjerkol has that these are not known in the municipalities, because when the deadline for applying expired on 31 May, there was an application amount that exceeded 100 million. kr. The criterion for applying to these funds was that one could also be in a position to have used the free resources to the fullest extent possible for the health and school health services. When we have seen such an interest in the municipalities for this money, we also see that there is a clear indication that these municipalities feel safe that they have used the increases they have received in free money, in the right way, for health care and school health services. This has been money that gives an effect that leads to a change out there. There are some municipalities that are now facing a challenge of getting enough applicants for the jobs they post in this area, such as the United Kingdom. The drama municipality, but I am absolutely convinced that we will see that this effort brings concrete results in better access for children and young people to school health and health care services. This is part of a joint effort between the government parties and the cooperation parties, which is not about waiting for a strategy, but about making changes that matter here and now. At the same time, we should also work on a long-term strategy and follow-up – of course – in line with what is also the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4207	Now, the Council of State has thoroughly explained the operation of the reward scheme. To take a concrete example: Our municipality outside Bergen started by employing one municipal psychologist and then, over several years, employing more people so that they are now at least up to six psychologists. This is a municipality that has a young population profile and is systematically targeting children and young people. If it had not been a reward scheme, but an allocation flat to all municipalities, the municipality of Os would not have been able to apply for a further escalation. Now they get help with that, and once they get to six, they might need that reward, because so far they've actually been able to prioritise within their own resources. As far as school health services are concerned, we need to keep on stepping up. The red-green government received a report that showed that in 2016 we can run out of health sisters. That's one of the reasons why we don't put on earmarked money for a sector where there's actually not enough qualified personnel. Then we have to see if it is possible to teach someone else to participate in that service, or where we can retrieve these labour resources from. Then I hear that the Center Party is concerned with the mental health protection of the specialist health service. We have now had an income model that has worked for five years, which was introduced in the time of the red-green government. An income model was needed. We see that there are different income models between regional health companies. I think we should evaluate that. I am aware that Oslo is a challenge, because it stands out from the rest of Norway and not the other way around. But this creates some challenges. Some hospital companies receive less proportionate money than they have received in the past. There's a balance we have to look at – whether this is right. But it's a slightly different challenge. We are constantly looking away that the bureaucrats are taking care of themselves and are not listening to Storting's signals. They have to do that nicely. When we decide to reintroduce the ‘golden rule’ and that mental health and intoxication should have more growth than somatic, the bureaucrats need to figure out how to solve it within the framework and not ignore the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4218	I take the floor because I thought it was very interesting to hear how this system of the 100 million. kr to the school health service is intended and how it is turned into hops. So it hasn't become an ear-marked system, but a kind of gift scheme, an encouragement pot, which you get when you've used up the free resources. It sounds very strange to me when the Council of State says that there is free money to go to the school health service. It's a self-contradictory prophecy. Free resources are, of course, free resources, and we already have experience that, out of the free resources for the school health service that the red-green government granted on our guard, with clear leadership and a strong desire and hope and an order to the municipalities that they should strengthen the school health service, only half of the money was spent on it. That's why the Workers' Party has now said that we want to have earmarked funds for school health services and health stations in an escalation phase, so that they have the skills and quality that we need in the municipalities. So I would advise the Council of State at the next crossroads to think through whether he really believes that free money can go as earmarked anyway, with pious desires for school health. I think the Council of State is going to be disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4227	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4230	I need to say something about the 100 million. kr, for them was the Christian People's Party with and fought to mark the ear. When I was rapporteur, it was that in the municipality I was rapporteur, we had the youngest population in the country. We've been betting on a two-teaching system from 1 to 4. class. When money was distributed to school from the red-green, we didn't get anything. But the municipalities that had cut down on the school offer, they got. We wouldn't feel that way about school health. That's why we said that it's not like those who have used their budgets should be punished when they distribute money. They will show that it is children and young people who get the money they are asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4237	I was unable to humiliate myself after listening to the representative Knutsen from the Workers' Party. So first of all, the Workers' Party is now going to signify because the municipalities didn't do what they wanted them to do under the red-green, because they spent only half of the money that the red-greens thought they were going to go to the school health service. I experience very often, for example. when we discuss state funding for the care of the elderly, that the argument is that municipalities must be allowed to use the free resources they receive, as they themselves want to use them. It really means that Tove Karoline Knutsen's definition here is that municipalities can get to do what they want, as long as they spend the money as we want. When they don't, we're going to go in and label. Perhaps even more specifically in this case is that you say that you have to designate all the means. Yes, now this government has given a lot of free money, and you're actually going to introduce those who choose to spend the money on what we say they're going to spend some of these free resources on, that's to strengthen the school health service and the offer to children and young people. So the Council of State has explained that, together with the cooperation parties, we have agreed to set aside 100 million. kr, to be ear-marked. You have to do what the representative of Bollestad just said: municipalities that are now following up and taking the signals without having to do it will have the opportunity to get off these last 100 million. kr. That must be very good. Then you give the signals that come, both space and discretion for municipalities to use this money, and you have also created a reward scheme that makes you probably choose to do it, but you do it on a voluntary basis. That'll be great. Fortunately, students and young people in need of school health receive a better offer because municipalities give priority to it – you don't punish those who have actually chosen to give priority, but perhaps also those who have not chosen to give priority, so they can see that it's smart to give priority, because it gives the opportunity for reward. That's why I think reward is better than just earmarking everything, as the Workers' Party right here wants, but as they always argue against it. I might think that sometimes it's one smart thing, and sometimes it's the other smart thing. But the Labour Party just seems to talk to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4246	The regulatory time for the Storting meeting has run out, but the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4251	It is not that everything that goes to the municipalities should be earmarked. I don't think anyone in this room thinks so. I think very much should go as free means. But if we want to raise some social fields, it's so that from time to time we label money in a phase of escalation, in a given period, before they go to free money. That's a very common way of doing it. So it's like that if there's someone who's done a very good job in the ear-marked field before, we think that within some framework they should be able to spend the money that comes through the income system on other services to the population. It's not like they're being ‘received’ by the state again, as you do with the state attempt – then you have to pay back to the state. Otherwise, we are sectoring money to care for the elderly to build up the quality we want. It's described by our health committee, it's also adopted by our national meeting, and we look forward to starting work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4266	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4280	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4294	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4301	Now it's about food. Thank you to the representatives of the Labour Party who have made this proposal. Malnutrition in the elderly is a known problem. Monitoring has shown that two out of three hospitals do not meet the requirements for good nutrition practices. The Health Directorate estimates that up to 60 pst. by the elderly in municipal health and care services are undernourished. In this proposal for a representative, this issue is addressed, with proposals for measures to improve this situation. In 2010, the Health Directorate provided national professional guidance on the prevention and treatment of malnutrition in healthcare services. In the guidelines, a recommendation and advice based on up-to-date knowledge is provided. These guidelines are intended as a tool, and the target group is staff and leaders in both the specialist and primary services. Following the guidelines, four simple measures will be used to win a lot: ‘1. To assess nutritional risk 2. Providing those at nutritional risk with a targeted nutritional care 3. To document nutritional status and measures in the patient's journal and epicrisis 4. Dissemination of documentation to the next level of care’» According to these guidelines, all hospital patients shall be assessed for nutritional risk at entry and every week thereafter. All residents of hospitals and institutions and persons receiving help in home care shall be assessed for nutritional risks at the time of entry or decision and then monthly thereafter. Persons at risk of nutrition shall have an individual nutrition plan with evidence of nutritional status, needs, intakes and measures. It's been six years since these guidelines came, and now it's been announced that they will be evaluated. The question is whether hospitals and hospitals have actually implemented these guidelines for good nutrition practices. There is little use of resources to develop new circulars and guidelines if the health service does not have a system to implement the professional guidelines. The Committee writes in its opinion that it is well documented that the national professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition are not properly followed up in the services. Today, there is a lack of access to specialist expertise in the field of clinical nutrition in the specialist services, and in the primary care services, this competence is often absent. There is a great need for more settings for clinical nutrition physiologists in both sectors, and there is a significant need to increase the education element in nutrition — especially clinical nutrition — in primary, continuing and continuing training for Lêr and other health professionals. The Committee points out that healthcare providers and municipalities now need to ensure that nutrition becomes an integral part of the treatment provision in healthcare services. I guess that's where it's failed. In the committee setting, the parties are mostly a few. Proper and good nutrition for the elderly at home and in the home is crucial to ensuring good care for the elderly and good public health. Nutrition shall be an integral part of the provision of care services. This has been the subject of our hearing, and the proposal for a representative has received a great deal of support. A joint committee shows in its attitude to public health, where a new action plan was adopted with concrete measures to promote healthy diets in the whole population, where children and the elderly will be a priority target group. In this setting, the central party proposes to ensure that those working in the sector, continuing training on nutrition for vulnerable groups in health services, on a separate incentive scheme for clinical nutrition physiologists, to get more of them out into the municipalities, and that nutrition should be given a clear place in healthprofessional education. We also propose a holistic national approach to nutrition and nutrition. I want to bring up the suggestions that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4331	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4334	Food is important. The well-being and community involved in sharing a meal is important – regardless of age. Daily meals are a central part of the municipal care service’s mission, both in nursing homes and in home care. We have long traditions associated with food, where we find identity, belonging and fellowship with other people. But it's not always as easy to get a good frame around meals, for example. for the resident elderly lonely, and perhaps not for those living in nursing homes. In particular, many residents of the home have problems with appetite and are often in a situation of life that makes it difficult to get enough food. I think that it is particularly among this group that we find many underreported cases of malnutrition and malnutrition in the elderly population. The Stoltenberg II government put public health work at the top of the political agenda. The diet was also emphasised, for both young and older people. In 2007, a national survey on food, meals and nutrition was carried out at the country’s health home under the direction of the Health Directorate. The report Food and meals in the hospital provided an overview of how meals and food are taken care of. The study gave a good picture of the situation at the time and showed, among other things: greater attention and awareness of the nutritional content of the food served are needed. In addition, it was argued that there is a need for more knowledge of the nutritional status of the individual user or recipient. The Health Directorate, as mentioned by the rapporteur, published in 2010 national professional guidelines for good nutrition, with clear recommendations and good tools to identify, prevent and treat malnutrition in hospitals and home care. Guides for good nutrition work were also developed for different types of care services. These relate to the production of food in the institutional kitchen, different forms of serving, monitoring of food and drink intake and how to assess and monitor the nutritional status. National health oversight had a national focus on the supervision of services for the elderly between 2009 and 2012, and a summary in 2013 showed that there had been a improvement in the nutrition sector for the elderly. Nevertheless, a survey carried out by the Consumer Council in June 2015 by 200 municipalities across the country showed that we need to go closer. Some municipalities spend four times as much money on food for the elderly as others. There is no link between the size of municipalities and the variation in the use of money. Based on several studies, the Health Directorate believes that 20-60 pst. are undernourished or at risk by the elderly care users. Therefore, it is important that all municipalities have a meal policy that ensures that the elderly are properly cared for. Each recipient of care services must be offered a tasty and nutritious food offering. This is supported by several large organisations: the National Public Health Association, the Medical Association, the Pensioners' Association and the Norwegian Confederation of Associations, to name a few. The Workers' Party is committed to promoting a policy for the care of the elderly that can reduce the difference in quality in the provision of services to municipalities. We believe that good nutrition needs to be taken into account in the care of the elderly and propose the development of a national diet and nutrition strategy for nursing homes and home care. Both research and user studies need to evaluate the experience of different production methods and different preparation and serving solutions. We also need up-to-date knowledge of the nutritional status of each user of care services, so that we can take action in line with the adopted national guidelines on malnutrition in the elderly. We think it is important in this respect to have sufficient competence in the field of nutrition, for example. from nutrition physiologists and ensuring that these are accessible to municipalities. The working party is aware that the government will develop an action plan for diet and nutrition between 2017 and 2022. We would like to see a comprehensive national diet strategy for the elderly involved or seen in connection with this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4353	It's the food that works, always said my children's grandmother when we sat around her kitchen table and ate. She was born, grew up and had worked as a gardener in all her time, and she knew that no one would do – neither heroes nor us – if we don't get food and drink. It's really not a very difficult premise to understand either. Most of us know what nutrition means, perhaps especially we who have health education and know the structure and function of cells. The proposal from the Workers' Party, which we have discussed in the Committee, is to ask the government to present a comprehensive national strategy for good and healthy diets in the elderly in nursing homes and for those receiving home-based services. They ask the government to provide an overview of the nutritional status of elderly people receiving care services. There is a great need to lift nutrition as an important part of patient care. Health professionals shall have good competence in the importance of food and fluid as an integral part of the overall patient provision. And as previously said, the government is working on creating a new national action plan for diets for the period 2017–2022, in cooperation between three major departments in this context: the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. In the Right we are very pleased with this, and we think it can help to enhance the attention and commitment that nutrition is an equivalent part of the treatment of patients as doctors and physical activity. So the proposers deal with an incredibly important topic. It's a topic that concerns many of us, because the patient stories are many, about home-dwelling patients who have such poor nutritional status that they get dementia-like symptoms, and about patients in nursing homes who eat too little and too rarely – not unlike us sitting in this room today, maybe. But the answer to these challenges is not yet another strategy. National professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition state: ‘All residents of hospitals/institutions and persons enrolled in home care shall be assessed for the nutritional risk of insertion/decision and then monthly, or after another professionally justified individual arrangement’. The main response to the challenges is that health professionals and managers in hospitals and home-based services use their skills. Nutrition is an important part of the studies, but the status of nutrition in the daily tasks has to be significantly increased. It is primarily a professional responsibility for the managers, but also for all who work patient-oriented. The entire committee has previously visited Nygård Hospital in Sandefjord. Tuesday I was there again with the Minister of Health. There they've taken huge steps in the matter of food. Dinner has moved to later on the day, all food is made from the bottom of, mashed food is served as the most beautiful restaurant food, and residents, caregivers and kitchen staff have a pride and a joy of the meals that create well-being. The next project was simply that the menu – as I understood it – should be an à la carte menu. But this costs a lot of money, it's easy to think. No, they had invested something like 20,000 kroner in equipment to conjure up this mottled food that was made at some kind of molecular gastronomy. I didn't quite understand that, but the people who made it understood it. We all know how important it is that food is tempting, that it looks good, and that it is the last 30 centimeters that are most important in nutrition. The food must enter the mouth, and it must pass through the body. Otherwise, it was about working differently. The employees agreed that the tour had to be changed. The fact that the patient had dinner later in the day had such great advantages that it was not to be said that the employees would prefer to have lunch before, because it was better suited for the tour. Yes, malnutrition in the elderly is a known problem. It's not going to go over. It must be handled and resolved wherever the patient is. Government parties and cooperation parties have contributed, through the primary health message and focusing on the development of competences in the care sector, to bringing health professionals with different specialisations to work more closely together in teams in the future. We have great faith that the patient's overall needs can be seen more in the context. We need more continuity in care, and we need a targeted focus on attitude-creating work related to nutrition. We have to get to the point that the patient's nutritional intake and weight are as natural a part of nursing and health care as doctors and measuring blood pressure and other vital values.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4377	There is at least no doubt that good food is important, and it should also be good nutrition to be good. I fully agree that the rapporteurs have made a good proposal, and everyone agrees with its intention. It is also seen in the committee reading that there is broad agreement, all of them, and most of the time. I think it's important to focus on someone who's taken care of this and done something about it, and on how you've managed to get it, without either being more expensive or getting worse food, or getting better because it's more expensive. There are actually good solutions to get this done in a good way, and there are several municipalities that have done it in a very good way. The government has also launched the Golden Meal Project, where there has been a competition between institutions to deliver good food and food that is nutritional. I have respect for some of the people who chose to join, because those who actually work on this, actually exposed themselves a little bit and showed that they might not do this in the best way for the patients, but they dared say off and dared to stand up and say that ok, we take this challenge, we're going to join this experiment, and we're going to show that we're pretty good. Then you could see how some of them really supplied top-class and top-quality food, after you may not have had such a good experience in the past, at least those who were going to eat the food, but who have had a great experience and both nutritious and good food, and you have made them eat the food as well. It shows that this is completely possible, and many municipalities are doing it now. The government has announced that there will be an action plan for diet where nutrition is also a very important part. I'm very happy about that. I also think that maybe you should look at our neighboring country, Denmark, and Copenhagen, who has really put this in system and made a lot of excitement, just to make sure that patients and users, those who are going to get the food, get food that smells good, that tastes good, and in addition, it's actually the right food. That's how you get both a good experience and proper food, and that way the undernourishment goes down, and it's very important. I think this is a very good initiative from the proposers, but it may also be a bit so that this is something you are now working on. Since the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen moved forward a bourgeois municipality, I can move forward a socialist-driven municipality, to make it visible that some of them too are doing very well. It's the municipality of Orkdal and the hospital there. They met me during Arendalsuka last summer, and then I heard how they had worked on this. They spend 42 kroner per day per person, and they deliver several hot meals every day. It says something about opportunities here, but you have to make sure that people, those who are going to do the job, become both engaged and feel that this is fun to be on. If you can do it, I think you can do an incredible amount. You can also see that through the Golden Meal Moments. It is a project that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has launched this year too, just to challenge the institutions to get food that tastes good and smells good. Then people eat, then you get fresher, and then you have to take less medicine. There's a win-win situation for everyone to bet on good nutrition. I look forward to the announced action plan coming. Therefore, this was perhaps a little bit to turn open doors, which I often heard in the previous period, but it was perhaps just something I was thinking. The proposal is good, it's being followed up in a good way, and there's a lot of consensus in the committee on most of this. The action plan comes, and then this will be put properly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4394	It's like someone and everyone in here needs both food and drink, would have a faith. Good and proper nutrition for the elderly, whether living in nursing homes or in their own homes, is essential for ensuring good public health for the elderly. There is a well-documented need for improvements in healthcare in this field. We get reports of malnutrition and media postings on undernourished people. Good food, nutritious food, together with a community, belongs together. Food experience and appetite are also associated with the rest of the sensory apparatus, such as smell, sight and taste, and with culture and tradition. Being able to enjoy good food and taste requires knowledge of food, but also knowledge of dental health, disease, medications and mental health, which is also linked to food intake and appetite. Older people, whether they live in a nursing home or at home, often lose their spouse, friends and social relations, which means that their appetite too disappears, they don't get enough in them, and they get sick. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is concerned about and believes it is fundamentally important that every nursing home should have its own kitchen. Smelling, smelling, long before the food comes to the table, can do something about the food experience and appetite. We often talk about personalised medicine in the health field. But personalised food means a lot to make the food taste, especially for those who are sick, for those who have no appetite. Nor is there any doubt that knowledge of the importance of nutrition should have a clear place in all health professionals. Some people today have it in their professional education, but I'm afraid we should get it more in place in all professional groups. Had we been trained, there would not have been a problem with malnutrition in Norwegian nursing homes or home care. But precisely because we have more to learn, this should have a big focus. We will not succeed in habilitation and rehabilitation if we do not succeed in nutrition. Nor will we succeed completely with medication alone if we do not adapt medication to nutrition. A wise woman has said in this room: Everything is related to everything. That's also the case with food and nutrition, sickness and the elderly. If we don't get in just enough food, it goes beyond our physical and mental health. Nutrition is a central part of creating a complete and good offer. In the rest of the world, both hospitals and hospitals may use this even more than we do. They dedicate food and prohibit almost food from various diseases, because there are some things that are not related. We have a lot to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4407	As I understand it, this proposal is being implemented by the Consumer Council – and other organisations – in the wake of its revelations/investigations last year. In 2015, the Consumer Council examined how much food was spent in hospitals, and it turned out that there were huge differences. Orkdal spent only NOK 42 per day, while Kristiansand spent NOK 167 – and then the municipalities distributed within this range. Some municipalities spent four times as much on food for the elderly as others, so it shows that there are huge differences here. As mentioned by others here, malnutrition is a major problem in the care of the elderly in general, and something needs to be addressed. Good food and being able to eat together over a good meal is important either one is young, grown up or old and sick and must be viewed as basic. It also pays off financially for society as a whole, so it's just positive to bet on good food. But it's not just about how much money you spend on raw materials. The preparation is also important, that one has good cooks that can make food in a good way, that they have time to do it – that this is not just something that gets sucked up – and not least that the elderly get time and help to get the food in themselves. Therefore, the Food and Nutrition Association is very important to listen to in this matter. The story of how elderly care has become more and more factory, the cooks ’ struggle is not just a struggle for themselves, but a struggle for older people to get good food out of life. In SV we thought it was time for all the parties to stop and think about what kind of development we are about to witness, an elderly care where the systems, small money and millimetre control with everything possible become more important than the elderly being well. In that perspective, I thought it was a little special what Sylvi Listhaug suggested on 1 May. Then she gave a speech where she could present a never so little news from the integration message. She said: ‘Those who starve at the nursing homes do so, not because of lack of food, but because of lack of hands. There's not enough time to make sure the food comes from the plate and into the mouth. Why not use those who are now going into work to help the sick and the elderly?’ Listhaug simply wants those who are new immigrants on the introduction program, those who cannot Norwegian at all, to have the task of feeding the elderly. Where's the respect? What kind of a human vision is this being derived from one of the government's ministers? Are there only a bunch of mouths to fill, not people you need to communicate with? And Listhaug said that besides giving the older food and being on the feed, the kind of tasks this group can't Norwegian do, washing and that kind of work. It says a little bit about human vision. Can anyone in the government or in the Progress Party tell me if that is how one wants to solve the problems? Is this government its policy, and how can the Progress Party allow this by its own minister? There's a lot of reason to think that the more government is busy counting and saving money to finance tax cuts, the more of these states we'll get. For SV, it is important to follow the advice of professionals, and we found the statement that the Consumer Council and the Food and Nutrition Association have set up to create good food situations for the elderly to be worth looking at. All municipalities should have a food and meal policy that gives older people an appetite for life, and all beneficiaries of care services should be guaranteed a safe, tasty and nutritious food supply. Attention must be paid to creating pleasant frames around the meal with a focus on social community. Individual wishes and needs and influence on food choices must be facilitated. Regular user and dependant reviews must be carried out. The importance of the good meal must be anchored in the hospital's rental. These are several good measures. We simply need to have a strategy that takes man seriously, and not just is concerned with filling a mechanical need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4425	Food and meals for the elderly are an important part of the municipal care service mission. Food is of great importance to the experience of quality of life and good health, and to the ability to be active in everyday life. Sub-nutrition increases the risk of complications, weakens resistance, exacerbates physical and cognitive function, delays convalescence and increases mortality. Several measures have been put in place to support municipalities in ensuring good nutrition and nutrition for elderly people receiving hospital and home care services. Surveys and supervisory experience show that improvements have been made in these areas in recent years. According to the Directorate-General for Nutritional Work in Health and Welfare, good nutrition work is primarily about the interest and competence of diet, knowledge of food that is cheap and healthy, and priorities of what you want to focus on. This government is putting a lot of emphasis on competence and knowledge. We have presented a separate plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in the municipal health and care services – Competencelift 2020. The aim of the plan is to contribute to professional strength and the adequate competence of municipal health and care services in nutrition as well. In 2016, we strengthened the municipal competence and innovation grant to give municipalities the opportunity to carry out skills, innovation and development work in the field of nutrition. The grant shall be managed by the county council. The county is an important driving force for good nutrition work in the municipalities and includes, among other things: initiatives for courses and seminars on good nutrition practices. The national effort to strengthen nutrition skills in the care service ended in 2015. The initiative has contributed to the development of different competences in municipalities, such as e-learning courses, training packages and guides. This is now spreading to other municipalities. Increased knowledge of the nutritional situation of persons receiving health and care services is important. The Health Directorate is therefore developing quality indicators for nutrition in the care service. The first indicators will be published in 2017 and will include, inter alia: view the number of persons assessed for nutritional status on arrival at hospital or by decision on home care, the proportion assessed for nutritional risk and the proportion of those at nutritional risk who have received measures; The government has started work on the development of a health home quality safety standard. The safety standard shall operationalise legal requirements and other quality standards in order to facilitate their implementation by Norwegian hospitals. The quality regulation, such as: is about nutrition, will have a natural place in this work. The system and standard shall be tested in a selection of municipalities until spring 2018. The evaluation will form the basis for further development and implementation of the safety standard. From this year on, nutrition has become a new input into the national patient safety programme, in safe hands. Work is under way on developing a concrete action package on nutrition. Following the piloting of the action package, learning networks are organised to disseminate and implement the action package. The Health Directorate has decided to revise the National Professional Guideline to prevent and treat malnutrition. In the guideline, it is clearly required that all those attending health and care services have their nutritional status and receive an individualised offer. Such a measure is important for the prevention and treatment of diet-related diseases and malnourishment and malnutrition. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food also cooperates with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which has initiated different courses, conferences or competitions for staff in the care services for the past four years. In dealing with public health messages, Mestring and opportunities, Stortinget adopted a new action plan with concrete measures to promote healthy diets across the population. Children, young people and older people are the priority target groups. The Ministry of Health and Welfare coordinates this work between the different departments and aims at the completion of the action plan in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4467	It is a little strange to hear from the government parties that this proposal is very good, but open doors. I do not think that what we know or have experienced through various investigations, those doors are so very open. I am actually disappointed that we did not get a majority in favour of this proposal, precisely because we are proposing a strategy, that is, to lift a field, into the action plan. Here the council says he doesn't have to. I'm not going to ask him if he wants to assess it, because he said he doesn't need it, and then he says something about these nutrition indicators that the Health Directorate is preparing. Then my question is, Is it possible for the Council of State to consider a proper monitoring of the nutritional status of elderly people in this country who receive care in hospital and home care?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4474	The first indicators will be published in 2017. Then we will receive answers, including: on these questions. The action plan to be submitted in 2017 prioritises precisely the elderly as a group. I also explained in my article a number of measures that have been taken, so that does not mean that we are waiting for it. I think the Labour Party has made an excellent proposal, but it is a little late. Work is already under way, and there is no reason why the majority in the European Parliament should vote in favour of a proposal calling on the government to take action which is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4481	I am a little surprised that you already have a strategy in this area. I haven't heard of that. The action plan that the Council of State is talking about is to be implemented in 2017, so that it is already being implemented in this field with regard to older people, it is a little difficult to understand. These indicators we talked about for nutrition will not provide answers to the nutritional status of the elderly population. I ask again: will the Council of State undertake a national survey, preferably using these indicators, to monitor the level of nutrition of elderly people receiving care services? That's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4488	These indicators will tell us how many have been assessed for nutritional status on arrival at the hospital or by decision on home care. They will tell us about the proportion that has been assessed to be at nutritional risk, and they will tell us about the proportion that has been assessed to be at nutritional risk and that has been addressed. This must be said to give us a pretty good indicator of the nutritional status of those who need this type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4495	It was a slightly better answer, that the Council of State tells us a little bit about how these indicators are going to be used. That's good. But then my question is, is this what the Council of State sees as a continuous process? Because it is not enough to identify the nutritional status of the individual once, it is something that needs to be followed up. Does the Council of State see that there will be an important task for the municipal care service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4500	As I said in my post: These will be quality indicators in the care service that the Health Directorate publishes, and they will be published for the first time in 2017, but the quality indicators will then be published every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4505	Now we are talking about indicators, about action packages, about piloting, about security standards, about patient safety programmes, about guidelines and about action plans. All of this we have a lot of already. At the same time, it's up to 60 pst. of patients in nursing homes undernourished. We operate organ transplants in the health care system, and we have specialised treatment. What we're discussing today is actually very simple, but also very difficult, it looks like. The Medical Association indicated that there were busy guards. They didn't have time, and they had many patients at the same time. What will the Council of State do to ensure that there is actually a change in services when we have all the action plans that are good enough in themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4512	There was no list of action plans I listed in my article. There was a wide range of measures either recently introduced or due to be introduced in 2017. I fully agree that the situation is not good enough. That's exactly why we've implemented these measures, but they wouldn't have been implemented any faster if the Storting had decided today that we should do what we've already done. What makes this happen quickly is that we can concentrate on introducing the things that are, and that we can develop the plans that are already being worked on. And here we're also in an area where there's a lot of variation, and so maybe it's not the right answer to say that those who work in the service have too little time. As the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen said, I was recently visiting Nygård Hospital in Sandefjord. What they had done there was to change the time of dinner serving just to get better time for patients between meals. That's what other people can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4519	Of course, good food that is well prepared is important in the nutrition work. We've discussed that, and there's a plan coming up. But it has also been pointed out that having a good situation around the meal is also important for nutrition, that one gets help and time to eat, and that one can sit and communicate and have a pleasant situation. Then I thought it was very special that Sylvi Listhaug launched this – that being part of that situation and helping the elderly to eat should be part of the introduction program for new immigrants, i.e. people who cannot Norwegian. Is this part of government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4526	It is that the purpose of the introduction program is to be introduced and included in the Norwegian community. This will require a participant in arenas where people speak Norwegian, and where a teacher of others and meet others. One of the measures also presented is that one, among others, can look at creating good meal situations in school. It's also a good venue for the introduction program, precisely because some of the purpose is to be with people who speak Norwegian and learn about Norwegian society. Older people also often find it very exciting to meet new people who have other life experiences and other perspectives on life. At least I appreciate it during a meal – if I can eat meals with other people and get acquainted with them. I think that's completely age-dependent, and I think the representative gives a little special representation of such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4531	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4537	After this lecture from the Council of State, I will only make a brief comment after my father died on 5 May. Food for the elderly – it is about making food as a taste and getting the food the last 20 centimeters from an ugly spoon to the mouth. We need to talk more practically, and we need to show greater respect for the work that is most common and most important. The problem is not a lack of good food, but to get it inside – to be present so that the old one gets it in. Let's calm down the talk about strategies and action plans and other fine and unclear words. Think if elected leaders could lift up the good examples of kitchen assistants and health professionals who get it into practice, because they understand old people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4542	The last speaker, the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen, I agree very much, because it's just about making sure that you get the food in a good way, that it tastes good and that it smells good – that's what quality is for many older people. So that's where we very much agree. I was a little surprised that he finished so quickly, and that I could fully agree with everything he said. It doesn't tend to be that often. It was very good, because he said it in a very good way. With regard to the post of the representative Knag Fylkesnes, I intend to ignore it in silence, because it was far beyond the seriousness sphere. But when the representative was a little bit there, I actually think that this is about, that we have to make sure that people get good quality and good food. Then I think that Knag Fylkesnes should sit in a taxi in the morning and take a trip to the Hovseterhome. There, he and his own party trap can ask the elderly bureau – or she who might actually call herself an ‘older minister’ in Oslo – those who live at the Hovseter home and the employees if there is a better food for cutting 13 jobs. Or they could take a trip to the Mangle Home and talk to those who use the football pub there, which the same town council wants to lay down. It's also about quality and important social arenas, where you might also get good food. Instead of standing here and attacking government representatives, you might want to sweep at your own door. This is in the capital, where we've heard SV talk many times about these terrible private people who care for the elderly, but with whom the residents are actually very satisfied. Then you might want to take a trip and see that the reality of SV's policy in this city is poorer quality and fewer employees. It also means that there is likely to be less time for employees to provide good food. I think it's important with food, and it's important that you have time to help those who need it, to get the food, as the representative Lundteg said. I think you should also bring out the good examples. That's exactly what I was trying to do. The representative, Wilhelmsen Troeen, led Sandefjord. I went out of Orkdal, and there are many other good examples in Norway, and we should cheer them up. They can do it without necessarily having more staff or more resources than others, but they have a way of doing it that makes you manage to create that joy. I also said that, and pointed out some examples of poor quality, but it has been taken seriously and made sure that it became good quality, for the benefit of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4555	I don't think I'm going to do like the representative Hoksrud and start to pull up the privatisation debate right now. It's long, and it's tough. We'll take it anytime, but not tonight. What we heard from the Council of State that asylum seekers who have come to Norway and do not know Norwegian should learn it in a nursing home where there are demented people, perhaps with poor hearing, I write to the account that he tried to be a collegiate in what he described to his council. We're going to try to forget what the state council said about that matter. I have to repeat that I am quite disappointed that so many think this proposal is important, and that you do not want to join in and support it. We let what I want to say is a loophole for the government parties in proposing a strategy, that is. you lift up a field and systematise the actions in the action plan. It will then be rejected. Once again, I hear the Council of State talk about the quality indicators. I look forward to that. I fully agree that such indicators should be developed in many different areas. But then there's a question of how this is implemented, how this is lifted up at a national level, because this is a field we have to promise for the weakest, for the weakest in our society. That's why it's so important that we don't just tell you that in Nygård they're nice. Yeah, they're the ones we've been there. In my hometown, they're good too. There the chefs go to Kaia and pick up fresh fish that they prepare at the nursing home where my mother lives. We have many such good examples. We'll learn from that. That's what we're going to do and try to do for best practice everywhere. But if we're going to do it, we have to have – call it – a strategy, that is, a systematic effort to roll this out nationally. That is what we are inviting with this proposal. So it's now being rejected by the government parties, and I think that's a very bad thing. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4568	I tried to think about it, but I don't think I've been overtaken in silence as loud as this before. Then I think I will return it and try to ignore the post of Hoksrud in silence in the following way: The listhaug show that came on May 1st, which I thought was a play that was on May 1st, 2016, which never went further and entered the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, May, but stayed there and became part of the history, has now been brought into this hall and became part of the government's policy with the announcements to the minister. That's what I thought was very, very strange. I almost had to look for words for how to explain this here. Because it's about human vision. It is considered that if new immigrants are to leave the labour market, they should do light tasks. There shall be washing; there shall be feeding of the elderly. I totally agree that to bring new immigrants into Norwegian society, it is very important that they participate in normal arenas as far as one can, but these are not normal arenas. These are not simple tasks. It is not that you can get a person who cannot speak Norwegian to be there – please, just and never come back – to feed older people, because it is just a simple task to do. There's not a human being on the other hand, there's only one mouth, there's only one mechanical movement one needs to help the older one do. I thought it was quite revealing to what kind of human vision one here presents. That's the respect that I'm asking about where in all the world went for the elderly, sick person. How in all the world should a manage to create security, which of all the professional environments is being weighted as extremely important for creating good nutrition, around the lunch, lunch and breakfast situation, when you attract people who cannot Norwegian, who will only be there a very short time and make this a small learning venue for Norwegian languages. I think it says a lot, and I'm quite surprised that this comes from the Progress Party, such a connection between their vision of new immigrants and their vision of the elderly, which meets in such a wrong way. I must say, that's quite surprising. There I can close my position before the article from Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4581	What we were told now was the representative Knag County's human vision, which I think is something special. It reveals a rather strong prejudice against political colleagues and, at the same time, a human view of what those who come to Norway can have great joy and benefit from being introduced to Norwegian society, but also what those who live in our older institutions can have enjoyed by meeting other people. I have never seen anyone suggest that people in the introduction programme replace highly qualified staff in these institutions. On the contrary, it is government policy to strengthen the requirements for competence in this service. These include: one of the reasons why we have recently sent out to the hearing a proposal that makes clear competence requirements. That feeding takes place in the way Knag Fylkesnes here describes, I believe in that case is wrong. That's not how it's going to be done. Fortunately, the service has evolved so that it does not. But that one might think that older people in Norway should not have enjoyed meeting people who are in the introduction program, and sitting with them in a meal situation, and that those who are in the introduction program should not have the pleasure of being able to be introduced to Norwegian society just by being able to be with other people in a meal situation, I think it is very special, whether it is in school, which is part of the discussion about this, or whether it is in older institutions. Of course, it's never like a substitute for those who work there, who should have a high level of competence and follow up on nutrition and that there should be good meals. It is never a substitute for skilled cooks or others to prepare the food. I think it was quite revealing to the view of other people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4592	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4595	When I said that this was revealing to the health minister's human vision, he of course had to return it and say that this was revealing to this representative's human vision. That's the way we can have it going. My point was very simple: it was appointed on 1 May by Minister of Integration Listhaug, where she said that this could be part of the working life practices of newly arrived immigrants in the introduction programme – i.e. by definition, those who cannot Norwegian have working life practices on the sick home and feeding the elderly. That's what was said. It was the little news that got spread. With all the rest that the Minister of Health takes here, yes, I can understand that, but I referred to the Minister of Health's colleague. I'm SVs, and of course I want them to participate in the normal arenas, but, Lord God, we have to make sure that the security around the elderly is taken care of, and that the newly arrived immigrants get positive arenas where they can really get to their right. It is not Listhaug... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4604	Time's up. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4609	She can be He's here, he's here, too. When the representative Knag Fylkesnes says what he says, I actually believe that he definitely shows his own way of looking at people. I think the Council of State presented in a good way. Then I register that he does not want to answer my questions and that he does not intend to take a trip up to the Hovseter Home or to the Mangle Home to find out if there is a better food service by removing 13 employees, removing the football pub and these important things, but I understand that he does not have an answer, so that's the way it is. I just think he shows his own way of being. Today, there are many in the introduction programme who are also out in the workplace, who are at home or are at other types of institutions, but it is of course about what the Council of State said: not to do what you have to do to ensure quality, etc. I just think he showed his unreasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4626	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e4648	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to further examine the provisions on the scope of the training obligation and return to the Stortinget with proposals to that effect.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5103	It is first heard about the Committee's position on B. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5116	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the second paragraph of Section A I.2-1. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5129	There is a vote on the Committee's position on the second paragraph of Section A I, Section 9-5 and the second paragraph of Section 13-3. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5142	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5151	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5160	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5420	First of all, the Committee's position on the third paragraph of Section 3-2. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5433	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5442	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5451	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5458	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to come back with proposals that the Vocational Diploma be defined as a qualification for vocational education and training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5803	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5836	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5905	The President makes it clear that both in the proposition and in the setting, IV in an incurrency has become VI. This will be corrected in the legislative decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5914	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5923	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5930	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Kirsti Bergstø, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 5 and 6, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the parental leave scheme for the very few families who, in the case of multiple births, have three or more children, so that both parents can be at home at the same time throughout the period of leave.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a statutory right to family apartments for families with special care challenges, such as singles with twins, families with vibrations, families with children who have a serious illness or disability or families where there is a serious illness in their parents’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5963	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to grant the right to a shorter working time for father, or co-mother, in multiple families during the first year of life, on a template from today’s right to breast-feeding for mother.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5979	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose to amend the provisions of the Health and Safety Act on maternity leave to give entitlement to two weeks per child born.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e5995	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government, on the basis of the living conditions survey, to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an overview of the public aid schemes that can be used by multiple families and other families with special care challenges, and an assessment of the various measures that can improve the situation of these families’.» The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6011	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposing to grant the right to a shorter working time for father or co-mother of multiple families during the first year of life, on a template from today’s right to breast-feeding for mother.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider proposing to extend the parental leave scheme for the very few families who, in the case of multiple births, have three or more children, so that both parents can be at home at the same time throughout the period of leave.’ The Central Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6072	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6087	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Odd Omland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 7, from Odd Omland on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6127	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norwegian and local businesses have the opportunity to participate in competitive tendering on equal terms with foreign suppliers.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6143	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, have been converted into a transmission proposal during the debate. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that public acquisition requirements reflect specular environmental requirements for products or production, so that Norwegian enterprises are not penalised for complying with Norwegian environmental standards.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6171	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 7a, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the Ministry shall grant contracting entities the right to reserve contracts for health and social services of NPISHs under specified conditions.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6209	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 1 and proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6490	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal concerns the first and third paragraphs of Section 12 of the Recommendation, where the Committee has made proposals for a correction of the text compared to the wording of the referral. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on public procurement, the first paragraph of paragraph 12 shall be replaced by the following: If the dispute settlement body finds that the contracting entity or any person acting intentionally or seriously negligently on its behalf has made an illegal direct acquisition, the body shall impose an infringement fee on the contracting entity. [[purchasing law]] If the body finds that the contracting entity or any person acting negligently on its behalf has made an illegal direct acquisition, it may impose an infringement fee on the contracting entity. Paragraph 12 shall be replaced by the following: in determining whether an infringement fee shall be imposed in accordance with the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 12 and in determining the amount of the fee, particular attention shall be paid to the gravity of the infringement, the amount of the acquisition, whether the payer has made repeated illegal direct acquisitions and the preventative effect. The fee may not be higher than 15 per cent of the value of the acquisition.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6521	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6530	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6540	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6555	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2 and 3, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that all state-owned companies move their subsidiaries away from closed jurisdictions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6581	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-ethical tax practices and tax evasion are actively followed up in the ownership dialogue.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norwegian state-owned companies notify relevant tax authorities if they discover unethical tax practices among their subsidiaries or partners.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6602	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of how the government has followed up the work of maximum transparency in relation to cash flows, including taxes, and that international companies comply with the OECD tax guidelines, including seeking to avoid using tax havens that do not comply with the standards of the Global Forum on the transparency and efficient exchange of information in tax matters and that will not enter into tax information agreements with Norway. The majority further asks the government to present a strategy for the Storting with concrete measures to prevent companies with a significant holding in the State from exercising the transparency required in the ownership notification and thereby contributing to eroding the Norwegian tax base.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6746	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6755	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6762	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities develop known criteria that make it clear that long-term hospitalisation practices or similar housing practices’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a national overview of the needs and offers of hospital or similar accommodation by enhancing the quality of data in IPLOS [[Individual-based Nursing and Nursing Statistics]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6839	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6850	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6863	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6870	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the reporting burden does not increase as a result of the introduction of municipal patient and user registers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the introduction of a general reservation law in the Health Register Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit significant aspects of the development of municipal patient and user registers to the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6983	The centre party has now notified that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e6992	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7001	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7008	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7047	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The opening times of the proposed limited sales scheme for products above 4,7 % by volume of alcohol shall follow the sales times of other alcoholic beverages containing more than 4,7 % by volume of alcohol.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the limited sales of products above 4,7 % by volume of alcohol to be evaluated after three years’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7260	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7271	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party will also vote against this. The voting boards showed that there were 84 votes in favour and 7 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.27.29]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7282	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7287	My voice was also not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7292	Are there multiple votes not registered? Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7303	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7310	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Kjerkol on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Special Health Service Act specifying that a 24-hour mental health offer for children and young people should be available irrespective of the age of the recipient and that the offer should be in continuous operation.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7335	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting a quality-based minimum standard for health centre and school health services.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether outpatient pediatrics should have an obligation to provide outpatient teams to the Child Welfare Service.’ [[BUP]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better coordination of child protection and mental health services, including assessing changes in legislation and its practice, leading to a strengthening of the child’s right to coordinated child protection and mental health protection services.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7434	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No. 3, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that employees of the municipal health and care services receive increased support for continuing training courses on nutrition for vulnerable health care groups.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7462	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a separate grant scheme for municipalities that will employ clinical nutrition physiologist in their own municipality or in cooperation with other municipalities.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal. The vote boards showed that 86 votes were cast against and 11 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.31.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7476	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7481	Then there are 87 votes against and 10 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to provide an overview of the nutritional status of older people receiving municipal care services and to describe concrete measures to implement the adopted national guidelines against malnutrition in older people, within a defined timeframe.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7499	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that knowledge of nutrition for vulnerable health care groups is given a clearer place in health professional training.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7515	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition for elderly people receiving hospital and home care services. The strategy must describe concrete objectives and actions, and their timing, which can be linked to the government’s announced action plan for diet 2017–2020.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-09.ana.ud2114e7568	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
