ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e72	A number of permit applications are available: from 10 April to 16 April and from the representative of Mr Eirild Ellingsen on leave from 12 April to 14 April, until further notice from the representative of Mr Ingunn Foss on leave from 10 April to 16 April, and from the representative of Mr Eirld Ellingsen on leave from 12 April to 14 April, both in order to take part in the mission of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO to Washington from the Labour Party Group on the leave of the representative Mr Sverre Myrli from 12 April to 14 April in order to take part in the mission of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Algeria from the Political Group of the Progressive Party on the Permissibility of Mr Sivert Bjørnstad from 12 April to 14 April in order to take part in the OECD Parliamentary Conference in Tokyo Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are applications for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from the first alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, respectively, because of illness, and from other alternates, Greta Johanne Solfall, because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: for the West Agder province: Benjamin Groenvold on 12 April–14. April For Akershus County: Are Health 12 April–14. April For Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren from 8 April until further notice and Veronica Pedersen from 12 April to 14 April. April For South-Trundellag County: Tormod Overland 12 April–14. April
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e147	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e161	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e168	The Committee has addressed the annual Health Service Quality and Patient Safety message to the Stortinget. There is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on this matter. The Committee points to the fact that we have a good health and care service in Norway. The OECD report of 2014 showed that the health status of Norway is good. The Norwegian health system is particularly good at treating and surviving a heart attack, and there is good cancer survival. But Norway is cutting slightly worse when it comes to patient safety and vaccination indicators, and there is no need to. Treatment in the healthcare system will always be associated with risk. It can always be wrong, and there will always be a risk of infection. But the risk of errors and lacks can be reduced by quality-orientated leadership, better system and a learning and security-focused service. Measurement of quality and openness of results is necessary to learn from failures. The Committee points out in its configuration that the quality of services varies too much. Information flows, communication and coordination between different parts of the service are a problem. Too many patients are injured, and infections and misuse of medicinal products are the two most common causes. The Committee is particularly concerned about the patient safety work in the municipal health and care service. The Committee points out in the setting of the Storting's treatment of the notification of medicinal products and the measures adopted in connection with it to ensure the correct use of medicinal products in the population. Proper use of medicinal products is important for patient safety. 12 pst. This may have serious consequences for individual patients, such as side effects or deaths. We need to listen to patient and user environment. They take the pulse of Health Norway and provide important information from those for whom health services are available, namely patients and users. The Committee takes seriously the patient and user environment's annual report. A single committee sees the need to strengthen the fixed medical system and to review both organisation and funding. In this setting, it is pointed out that cooperation between health care levels needs to be improved. It points to the need for proper and adequate staffing in hospitals and home care and to the need for more systematic patient safety work in the municipal sector – especially in hospitals. It also commented on the annual report of the State Health Authority and the supervisory reports of the counties. The Committee believes it is worrying that so many municipalities have not started with the legal requirements of the People's Hellova to have an overview of the health status of the population. It is also serious that criminal offences are detected in all healthcare providers when they concern mental health protection for children and young people. The Committee also points out that the medical profession is still a risky area. The Committee also points out that the health alert culture needs to be strengthened and that this cannot be achieved without the establishment of a genuine culture of openness. The Committee also points out in the configuration to the Knowledge Centre's notification system, and that an evaluation of the scheme shows that it has contributed to making reporting easier and that the scheme has led to a greater emphasis on notification culture and learning. The Knowledge Centre’s learning notes, which were published in three out of 2014, can be of great value throughout the service, not only for the service location where there has been a concrete event, and the Committee stresses that such learning notes are of great value. The Directorate for Health has a legal responsibility to develop, disseminate and maintain national quality indicators for the health and care services as a whole. In the setting, a joint committee points out that cleaning is particularly important to follow, and one indicates that large municipalities are consistently more likely to clean up the elderly. The Committee also addresses the importance of reducing the number of hospital infections. It may be easy to say what to do and need to be better in Norwegian health care, but it may be harder to move in that direction. This is a very important work, for which the Minister of Health is the top responsible, and for which the Storting is very concerned. A health care system that has good patient safety is absolutely fundamental for the health care system to have confidence in the population. It shall be safe to be treated in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e194	There is a broad consensus in the Committee that the Norwegian healthcare service provides high-quality services. It is also very gratifying that most patients are very pleased with the services they receive, and much of the credit is due to the high level of professional competence and integrity of our health workers. The working party supports the description that quality work should be targeted specifically at the following three areas: Firstly, quality-orientated management. Quality is primarily a management responsibility. Secondly, systems that can help support better quality and patient safety. Here we have a way to go both when it comes to involving users and the fact that large areas of community health care, drug treatment and psychiatry have too little developed systems. Thirdly, a learning culture. It requires transparency, real transparency, and ability to change practices and organisation as well as to have systems that build up under learning. It's about the daily reporting, warning culture and listening to patients. So I want to focus on IPLOS. When we've been around the community health service, they say they've been reporting for ten years on indicators that they're themselves occupied with, but they can't use it because the system is designed to be used only nationally, while they themselves need it to see if things change. It's important to take on board that we look at which systems we have, that they are as user-friendly as possible, not least for those who work out of them, and who are interested in seeing how they can get better. It also applies to inspections, that they need to involve users more closely, and that they need to prepare their reports in such a way that those who know that they are subject to supervision see how they can use them for learning purposes. In particular, the working party will highlight health atlas work as a starting point for improving quality and ensuring equivalent services for all. The reports provide a very good starting point for assessing own practices and discussing improvements. But then you also have to have cultures that take this over. We hope that more disciplines do the same as the Paediatric Society, and even raise issues that they see can be challenging, and use the health atlas methodology to get a knowledge base for discussion and to get better. Change takes time. Many of the same challenges remain in 2013 and 2014. There are particular challenges related to lack of communication and information. These are areas that have also been duly addressed in all matters that the Committee has had and has to deal with — including in several supervisory cases. This is particularly true when transferring patients between administrative levels, such as printable patients. Here we know that we have an improvement work, but we also know that it takes time to get it into place. The Committee shall be closely involved. The majority of the Committee has noted that Norway is cutting worse than other countries for vaccination. Vaccines are the most effective tool we have in the prevention of health and they have a risk-reducing effect on the development of diseases that require the use of antibiotics. Patient and user representatives recommend evaluating the role of decision-makers. The decision-makers are naveted in the health care system. We had it up in the treatment of the primary health message. The working party believes that it may be necessary to look at the role of the decision maker so that they can be the real hub. Patient and user representatives also offer concrete suggestions on how to strengthen user involvement, not least how patients can mobilise their own resources. They believe that the patient should receive copies of referrals, epicrisis, trial responses, and patients using multiple medicinal products should always be given an up-to-date list of medicinal products in consultation with the permanent physician. These are relatively simple and obvious demands, which we hope the Minister will address. The municipal bodyguards are the Achilles heel in the emergency chain. There is a need for quality assurance in order to balance the large differences, and one looks forward to examining the proposals of the Committee of the Regions. In the case of acute illness, proper and prompt assistance is essential. In conclusion, the Labour Party would stress that we very much appreciate having such national reviews, and if these are the same issues that are being discussed, we should also be open to raising new issues that emerge along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e224	Security of assistance and care when we need it is the support of our welfare society. Responsibility for providing good health and care services to all rests with the public. Health and care services in Norway are well developed and high standards are high – this is much thanks to many highly skilled health and care professionals. At the same time, we know that a lot can and must get better. The quality of healthcare varies too much, and the waiting time for investigation, diagnosis and treatment has been too long. Information flows, communication and coordination between different parts of the service must also be improved. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. Good governance and planning in addition to good competence is a prerequisite for achieving the objective. The fact that the Minister of Health has chosen to provide the Storting with an annual report on quality and patient safety reinforces the potential of the Stortingen to hold a wide and open debate on the status and challenges of the healthcare service as a whole. The objective is systematic patient safety work to ensure less variation, fewer adverse events and better quality of service provision. The message we are dealing with here today is the second one in the series describing challenges and establishing the status of quality and patient safety in healthcare, in line with the annual reports from the patient and user representatives, the State Health Authority, Norwegian patient injury compensation, the Knowledge Centre's reporting system and national and international quality indicators, etc. The quality work in the Communication focuses in particular on the following three areas: more quality-oriented management good systems to contribute to better quality and patient safety a more safety-focused and learning culture throughout the healthcare system The government's work already shows good results in several areas. In short, free treatment options and reduced health cows, we have strengthened care for the elderly and increased efforts towards drug use and mental illness, we have legalised the right to user-controlled personal assistant, strengthened the care system and introduced a collection programme with free HPV vaccines for women up to 26 years of age. During the hearings, many positive feedback was received that the government would promote an annual quality and patient safety notification. Especially pleasant was the feedback from the Kreftforeningen on the results so far from the government's cancer campaign. As is known, 28 cancer package pathways are established and multi-disciplinary diagnostic centres are established in all health regions for patients with a suspected cancer or other serious disease. The Cancer Association was clear that the package trajectory had contributed to greater safety and predictability among patients in the scheme. The government has taken several important steps to improve the quality of care services by focusing on competence and management, including in terms of knowledge and competence of the seriously ill and dying. A master’s programme for advanced care has been launched in municipalities, a safety standard has been introduced for nursing homes and has been organised for several psychologists, health sisters and ergot therapists. With the National Health and Hospital Plan, the Annual Quality and Patient Safety Surveys and, in particular, the Primary Health Communication, the government has placed a high focus on transparency, political awareness and attention to quality and patient safety in national health and care policies. In order to improve the quality of municipal health and care services, new enhanced measures are also being launched in the primary health notification and in the Government’s care plan, Care 2020. In this important work, inter alia: decision-makers shall be a central actor in the objective of a more team-based primary health service. The government has also said that it will consider changes in the regulatory framework for organisation and funding to facilitate good primary health teams. Good hospital certification models are being found to improve the services and provide patients with safe and predictable services. Quality and patient safety targets that can be used in quality work at all levels are also being further developed and national quality requirements for treatment provision are to be established where this is necessary to ensure equivalent quality and patient safety at all levels of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e260	It is reassuring that the Stortinget receives regular reports on quality and patient safety and is invited to contribute to increased attention and political awareness of this in national health policy. The Communication shows that the challenges in 2014 of course cover several of the same areas as the previous year. Changes in the health system take time and are rarely introduced overnight. It is therefore important that work on quality and patient safety be carried out continuously and systematically. At the same time, the systems in place must contribute to transparency throughout the service – with a view to improving where possible. The government has proposed the creation of a new municipal patient and user registry. This will enable central and municipal authorities to use stored data to better plan, manage and evaluate health and care services. For example, the register will provide valuable information on the treatment of patients with new public diseases, such as coal and diabetes. There will be important knowledge to develop the services related to the treatment of those diseases. There are, for various reasons, wide variations in healthcare provision. I record that both the Workers' Party and the Center Party are calling for local supervision in hospitals and that relatives should be involved. There are questions to be resolved locally. Then I would like to remind myself that after the election in 2015, the Labour Party received 203 rapporteurs, while the Central Party got 105. I have to say that the two parties at local level thus have very good opportunities to show how important they think this is. The Labour Party also calls on the Minister of Health for responsibility for non-compliance with the aims of the interaction reform. It also becomes too simple from a party that, with its 203 rapporteurs and majority formations in very many of the country's municipalities, clearly forgets what they have been fighting for. An overall committee is concerned that the systems for detecting and learning from adverse events and errors need to be improved — both in hospitals and in the community health service. At the same time, this depends on a general culture of transparency in healthcare. The Committee points out that employees in the health and care sector have, of course, freedom of expression, and sees it desirable to have a public debate on healthcare provision, a debate in which health workers also participate. The fact that there are errors in the sector, which are also covered, has led the government to want a health service survey commission. That things are covered in, can lead to the loss of life. It's unsustainable. We must not forget that behind each of these events, there may be parents, siblings, children, friends and colleagues involved. A lot of people get involved. I think it is essential that we take this seriously. And if we're going to get better, there has to be zero tolerance to hide errors that happen. Playing with open cards and following the book is important for the credibility of public health. Then it is also important to recognise the patient involved. The notification indicates that many adverse reactions occur during the use of medicinal products. This applies to both medicinal products and to the handling of medicinal products. Of course, adverse drug-related events may also occur in the specialist healthcare service. The risk of serious medicinal product defects is particularly high in the transitions between home and institutions and between different institutions. A medicinal product notification has recently been made. Here too, the misuse of medicinal products was an important element. Therefore, the government wants the development and extension of today’s prescription register to meet future needs. In conclusion, very much is very good in the Norwegian health service. However, this should not lead us to stop taking quality and patient safety seriously. There is also no danger — this government is genuinely interested in and concerned about creating the patient’s healthcare. Of course, it includes both high quality and maximum patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e281	This is an important message, which now comes every year, and which allows us to keep getting better even if the service is good. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that we are such an overall committee on such an important matter. Quality and patient safety are about getting better and better. We must never settle down because this is about people's lives. We have to strive to get better, with a culture of transparency that says something about quality, and that says something about deviation. We have to dry out having a culture of transparency that says something about patient safety. We have to dry to have an open culture that makes those who work in this, on the floor, dare to alert wherever they work – that there is an open culture where patients and users can say from when things are good, but also when things don't work. The fact that it becomes a culture of transparency for the population means that then the population can have confidence in the healthcare that in parameters is very, very good. A culture of transparency also applies if treatment choices are a quality – treatment choices that are right, but also treatment options that should not be given. It is not a quality that we operate, for example. shoulders differently in Norway, and that there are different parameters on whether we use cuckoo surgery in the knee of a private clinic or in a public clinic. That's not good quality. That's why we have the opportunity to get better. This creates security for those who work in health. This creates security for those to receive the service. This creates security for relatives. And this also creates security for us as politicians, so that we actually have the ability to give priority to resources for quality where one does not have good enough security. That is why this is an important message, because it is about people's lives. It's about getting a culture that allows employees to actually say from now on. The quality will not be good enough if the working environment is such that it is unsafe to say so. It challenges the individual's ability to work, which in turn does something about quality, which in turn does something about the safety of patients to be admitted to our hospitals or hospitals. Warning and transparency are about good leadership – that patients can be allowed to be who they are, without falling under the fact that they are difficult or impossible as patients because they ask questions about the treatment they receive. This is about good human resources policy, which ensures competence, that we know at all times that we have enough nurses, that we have the special training they need, and that we have the help workers that are needed at all times. It's about quality and safety. It is also about quality and safety to have good ICT systems. It is not good enough that more than 500 letters of patient information are transmitted digitally and disappearing, and that it is ten months before the health care provider discovers that they have disappeared. That's not good enough quality. That is why the Christian People's Party is incredibly grateful for the report that is coming. It's almost like in a marriage: when you've been married for a long time and are sent to a marriage course, it may be that one party doesn't understand why you should. But that's just to keep getting better. Blue light medicine, which is about heart attacks and strokes, has become better precisely because politicians, patients, professionals, relatives and society have focused on it. The number of survivors has increased, and the number of errors has decreased. The same thing needs to be done to give priority to drugs and mental health, which may be the areas at the bottom of alerting, to be able to say so and to report the need. That's why the Christian People's Party is extremely pleased with this very message, because we need to focus on getting better in the healthcare that's already good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e302	I'll start by congratulating ourselves on the day, it's the World Health Day today, April 7. This year's theme is diabetes. I'll first stop up a little bit by the world. In view of the fact that Norway is often referred to as the richest country in the world, it can be expected that we will have the best health care in the world. We've probably got one of the better ones, but no one's gonna score Norway all the way to the top. Therefore, there is good reason why the Storting spends annual time and resources on a status report, such as this notification. It's always, as previous speakers have pointed out, something we can get better at. The Ministry has highlighted in particular two key areas of the Communication: communication and involvement of patients and competences, learning and management. In addition, the Committee notes that interaction between the different levels and the manning and resource situation are factors that have a high impact on quality and patient safety. The left is particularly concerned with the role of the patient and real user involvement. Today’s healthcare, with such a narrow distinction between primary health services in municipal and specialised public health services, creates some specific challenges for the patient. For Norwegian healthcare, this is perhaps one of the characteristics compared to a good number of other countries — that we have this clear distinction between two owners. This in too many cases makes it up to the patient and the user to keep the system together. It's a big responsibility to put on the individual patient. Anyone who is healthy in the head and experienced can well share some of that responsibility, but for those who fall into the system, and perhaps just the head is what has been damaged, it's demanding to keep the system together. That's why we have to reach for more seamless patient paths, regardless of who the actor is. Information and communication technologies can help create better trajectories. We see that developments are now significant in the urban and state sectors, respectively. Patient records can be used as an example. The development of a national hospital platform is now well under way, while the equivalent is far from a common record keeping information from fixed and primary health services. I have used several times from this pulpit ‘dream-caset’ in Valdres, the local medical centre of Valdres, as an example of the co-location of public health services, care and outpatient specialist health services. Since they have six municipal owners, they relate to the systems of different municipalities. They have four different reporting systems: the municipalities have their own, the hospitals and the specialist health services have their own, the medical services have a system, and the ambulance services have one. The last thing they want is another one. Therefore, there is a demanding interaction we are facing, both in terms of standardisation and coordination. Today, it is rather fragmented, it is going very slowly and partly slowly – and it is especially so that 428 municipalities in today's digital society are considered too many. This is particularly evident in medical cooperation, today we have 191 medical teams working together, and we see significant differences between these medical guards. 112 of them are organised as intercommunal medical vigilance cooperation. It's where being a local owner becomes really demanding. I fear that too many people do not take seriously the ownership of the people, and that it is difficult to get both insight and understanding of the important work that is going on. I can also use the World Health Day Diabetes Register as an example, when diabetes is a topic. The children’s diabetes register in Norway is very good at international level, but when you reach the age of 18, you are almost out of date or no longer followed up. 90 pst. the diabetics are not registered in the Adult Diabetes Register. We have a long way to go to improve quality and work more systematically in the Norwegian health sector. As many people have been in, it takes time, and that time we have to spend well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e317	I would also like to congratulate everyone on the day, on the World Health Day. It is very funny that we are dealing with this particular matter today. I am very pleased with the broad agreement the communication has received in the committee, and the good discussions that are in the vote. The government will create the patient's healthcare, i.e. safe and good services to avoid unnecessary damage. The annual quality and patient safety notices are important in this work. Norwegian health services achieve good results in many areas. We're high on survival for diseases like cancer, heart failure and stroke, and most people say they're satisfied with the services they get. Variations in the consumption of healthcare are a problem throughout healthcare. Health atlas, which compares the consumption of healthcare in all parts of the country, shows that we need to work systematically to reduce unjustified variation. Therefore, I have notified that variation should be an important theme in the next message. The communication that Stortinget is dealing with today provides a picture of the status and challenges of 2014 and points to areas where we can improve. Patients and user representatives receive many requests for patient injury, information, waiting time and system failure. More and more enquiries still concern the role of municipal health and care services, in particular the role of the local authority, the quality of the hospitals and the municipal treatment. State health oversight identifies shortcomings in communication, competence, learning and management. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people, emergency situations, interaction and medicinal products are specific risk areas. The interaction between levels is not good enough, points out. We have taken several measures, but still have a little bit to go before we have achieved a good, consistent patient profile. The sources we have used provide us with a good basis for improving services. Through the public health, primary health and medicinal products and national health and hospital plans, the government has notified a number of measures that will contribute to better quality and patient safety. Measures at national health and hospital level show that work is well underway on the patient’s health care. The patient should be given a better basis for choosing the treatment option that is most consistent with the patient’s own preferences. Package trajectories for cancer and multidisciplinary diagnostic centres are in place, and we need to extend the package trajectories to several areas. We follow up on the notification of primary health services and will strengthen the competence of municipalities, stimulate better management and establish interdisciplinary teams. That's how we improve the firmness. We're going to have the right drug use in hospitals and in the home. Patients and health professionals will receive better information on medicines, and we have presented an action plan to help reduce the use of antibiotics in the population. Psychiatric health protection was put on the agenda of the Public Health Communication. We strengthen the use of resources in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, we have presented a stepping-up plan for the field of drugs, and we have announced our own youth health strategy. The Storting Communication shows that we lack knowledge, but that new knowledge is being developed at the same time, and we establish new quality indicators and health records. I am therefore pleased that we are now working to put in place the municipal patient and user register, which is mentioned from the pulpit of several already. But we must not let lack of knowledge stop us in the ongoing improvement work. We also have to use the knowledge that we already have, more. The Committee would like the local government to debate annually communications on the quality of health and care services. I fully agree with that. Regulations on management systems in the healthcare sector have recently been consulted. One of the requirements is that all establishments should at least once a year be systematically informed about the quality of the service they run, so that they can make the necessary changes. Transparency is a prerequisite for good quality and patient safety. I am concerned about stimulating transparency and that employees and trustees have forums where they can safely address improvements in the working environment and report adverse events in patient treatment. Leaders need to go ahead and create a culture that stimulates learning and improvement. I have called on health regions to see much more patient safety now in the context of health, environmental and safety work, and to follow up action where it is needed. The principle of transparency shall underpin all improvement efforts across healthcare, and precisely with these annual debates, the Storting also contributes to the transparency of these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e360	I want to repeat what I really talked about in my main post, and these are the concrete proposals from the patient and user representatives that the entire committee has joined. In relation to other issues that we have worked with, I believe this goes right into the heart of strengthening the patient's ability to mobilise his own resources with an overview of his situation. This applies, inter alia, to: patients need to be offered copies of referrals, epicrisis and probationary responses. Patients using multiple medicinal products shall always be provided with an up-to-date list of medicinal products after consultation with the prescriber. So the question is, how will the Minister of Health ensure that this is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e368	These are relationships with which we are now working well, not least through improved ICT solutions, the health portal and the core journal, which will help patients to access more up-to-date contemporary information on their own health. I fully agree that this is a challenge that we have in the service, that you don't get enough information about your own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e373	We hope to be more orientated, because this is really going to be directly to the guidance that the decision-makers are going to give. So I have another question. What is good in this message is that we are also seen from the outside. The OECD report for 2014 highlights two areas where we score a little less than the rest, and it is on patient safety and vaccination. Both of these things really surprise us, because we thought we were in the techit in those areas. But as far as vaccination is concerned, what will the Minister do in view of the report I suppose we will get in two years, so that we get better in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e380	We are now working on vaccination in several areas, including: in writing. - (PT) In the communication on medicinal products, we announced that we were working to assess the establishment of our own vaccination programme for adults. Vaccination is also a central part of the action plan related to antibiotic resistance. So this is also very much about giving parents the opportunity for good information at health centres. It is therefore important to strengthen the work of health centres. We do that through the strengthening of health centres that we have provided in the last three budgets, with the increase in municipal funds to build up health centres. I have great faith that when you provide good and factual information, more people will choose to vaccinate their child.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e385	The government, along with the cooperation parties, has been committed to prioritizing mental health, and I am pleased about that. We have a state council that is extremely concerned with mental health. However, the Committee notes in this setting that half of the 414 alerts that have been in the specialist healthcare service have been related to mental health protection and that there are particular patient safety challenges. My question is: what will the Council of State do to increase patient safety, especially in the area of mental health, and perhaps most specifically in the area of children and young people's mental health, when there is a challenge, as referred to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e392	I fully agree that it is one of the areas in which we have major challenges, if we look at the messages that come from that part of the service. I must stress that I am very pleased that it is a service that is reporting, because it is absolutely essential to do an improvement work. It is also the case that more measures have been taken in this area, including: the work we have now demanded, that a British model worker should evaluate when suicide has occurred among patients who are in a treatment course, in order to get a much more systematic follow-up in cases where it goes wrong. It is one of the themes that goes on again, for example. in the alert cases that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e399	Health care establishments have a statutory obligation to notify the National Health Knowledge Centre of significant personal injury to patients as a result of the provision of healthcare or by one patient injuring another. The aim is to improve patient safety. In 2014, the reporting scheme received over 9 000 messages. The reporting system has been evaluated, and it has been very successful. The patient and user environment has for several years asked whether this scheme can not be transferred to become an obligation for municipalities. The Arianson selection also recommends that it be completely reconciled, while I perceive that there is a refusal from the government and the government party to go into this. I can't understand that, because we're so busy improving patient safety in our municipalities. What is the reason why the Council of State may not introduce this into the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e404	I have not noticed anything about that refusal. On the contrary, it was the government parties and our cooperation parties who, during the last growing-up period, proposed by a representative of the undersigned to introduce the notification system also for the municipal health and care services. It was then voted down by the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV. But we think it was important that, once the Arianson Committee had got this as part of its mandate to assess, we got that evaluation from the Arianson Committee. We have now received that, and I am very happy that they recommend it. Now this is on the hearing, and we will then be working on following up the hearing. But my starting point is the same thing as I meant in the opposition, that I think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e409	Since it's the World Health Day, and diabetes is the topic, and we in Norway are going to start a diabetes plan, which the government parties and the cooperation parties agree on, I wonder a little about what progress is – especially with regard to the Diabetes Register, the Adult Diabetes Register, because it's an important register for knowledge. There have been discussions about how to report, who should do so, and the patient's consent to it. Can the Council say anything about how he makes sure that we use the Diabetes Register in a more systematic way, for the benefit of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e414	It's World Health Day today, and it's diabetes that's the main theme. I would not least recommend that many spread the possibility that people might go into the diabetes risk.no website, under the direction of the Diabetes Association, because it's actually that quite a lot of people have diabetes without being aware of it, and many are also at risk of diabetes and can avoid this with quite simple changes in their lifestyle. Of course, we follow up the Storting decision to establish a separate action plan. That work is the responsibility of the Health Directorate. In the case of the adult register, it is quite right, as the representative was also involved in his post, that there are challenges associated with low response, and that is also something that is being worked on in the service. But I am also concerned that such records have a good foundation in the healthcare system for their use and for their further maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e423	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e428	If we're going to say something about quality, we actually have to be able to measure quality. I would therefore like to say something about the perhaps somewhat boring concept of ‘quality indicator system’, but it is important – I will come back to it. We are concerned that the quality of healthcare should be good whether we are related to it or we are users of healthcare, and we are now asked whether the various hospitals are well treated. Do they have the most modern operating methods? Is it safe to get an operation? When you come home from a hospital, are you well cared for and followed up? Not least, are there many complications, and do they appear on the hospital’s websites? I have to say, it's nice to know that pages where you tell about unwanted events get larger and larger numbers of clicks. The quality indicator system is very technical and bureaucratic, but the system is very important in order to make improvements and to achieve equal treatment practices and standards. I think the staging message is excellent, and I would like to point out that the tables are in cape. 7 provides very useful information. But there's a sad no-face in the tables, and it's about competence in municipal drug work. There's actually a decline. This shows the need to have such indicators, because they are used to create new policies. It is not without reason that the government has made a stepping-up plan in the drug field, and that competence in municipal drug work is a field of activity in the plan. The table also shows that there is a trend towards equal treatment for strokes and the provision of treatment for thrombolysis, but there is a little bit left. We are all busy waiting time for the hospital, and the waiting time for the individual hospital is busy, and here we see that it has gone down. The figures are from 2014 onwards, and it is a disadvantage to process quality messages in retrospect. We have data from both 2015 and 2016 that shows that it now looks even better, and it's joyous. It is particularly gratifying that waiting time falls within multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. There is something the government has been working systematically on. We have something left in the work on quality, and if we are to succeed in getting to the patient's health care, relatives and patients need to be more involved. It doesn't have to be so hard, it doesn't have to be bureaucratic. I allow myself to make a suggestion. For example, you can do what you do when you go through the check-up at airports, where you have a system with a smiley or a red and green face, and when you go through the check-up at airports, when you have a system with a red and green face, people would be able to give feedback very quickly if they were satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e442	The fact that Stortinget receives an annual report on quality and patient safety in health and care services contributes to both important continuity – and not least – to our being able to follow developments in the field over time. We hope, all in the committee, that local government around Norway will do the same thing as the Storting, which is to look at these things at least once a year. The hearing bodies are pleased that the government chooses to submit an annual notification. This is not an area where healthcare is completed. This is a job that requires attention and vigilance from employees and managers every day. We think that both the patient and user representatives and Norwegian patient damages made important contributions to the consultation in the committee. They were clear that there is too little knowledge about the patient’s rights in the services. There is a high risk that patients will not receive the treatment, follow-up or information they require. It was also stressed that the most serious gaps often occur in the transition between specialist health services and primary health services. For us, it is also important to listen to the recordings that there are too many variations between health businesses. There is a great difference between the culture that leaders create for the learning of individual and statistical material. If you want to create a culture of quality, it's all about working purposefully to eliminate mistakes – from the small to the large. I have recently visited several manufacturing companies in my county, Akershus. Common to all of them is that managers, employees and trustees have a perfectly clear and clear relationship with health, the environment and safety. They work with every single day to minimize risk, but they also have a culture to think about innovation and change in the tasks they do – everything to eliminate the risk of errors. It's like the manager of one company said: if you've decided not to make the little mistakes in everyday life, you actually avoid the big accidents as well. We are pleased that our government is therefore promoting this annual case of patient safety for the Storting, but we are also pleased that the government is working to establish a Health Investigation Commission. In particular, relatives have requested a commission, including: the reasons why we need to know more about the complex causes of people being injured and dying as a result of healthcare errors. For the Right, it is difficult that patients and relatives feel that there is a particular need for such an independent study commission. They believe that such a Commission will strengthen the legal certainty of the relatives. A point with the Investigation Commission is not only that a person has been screened for the course of events and what led to the serious incident, but that the results of the investigation are actively used in the quality and patient safety work after the incident. Today, there is reason to believe that many businesses are not good enough to actively use the assessments of the supervisory authorities in their quality and patient safety work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e457	There's a lot of things you can talk about that poses a risk of patient injury and poor quality. Ceiling percentage is one such area, antibiotic resistance is another, which is very important to work with. But what I want to raise in my second post is something very simple, and it's nutrition. Malnutrition and misnutrition are a security challenge in our hospitals, in hospitals, and in health and care services in municipalities. According to the Health Directorate, one in three people are at risk of malnutrition. This is very serious, because is an undernourished person, there is also an increased risk of other ailments and poor quality of treatment. We know that there have been deaths in Norwegian hospitals due to malnutrition, probably also in the municipalities. We have good professional guidelines – that's not the problem. The problem is that they are not implemented in the services, and it is quite easy to fail. Often patients do not get help to get food. Something so simple leads to a serious patient safety challenge. I am pleased that the Committee is gathering up this very area, that nutrition is important in patient safety work and must become an integral part of the care we provide for the sick and caring, and that health professionals have good competence in this. I want to ask the Minister of Health to focus on this in the coming year. The second thing I want to mention is the report from the Norwegian Patient Safety Campaign, in safe hands, which shows that 44 pst. the Norwegian hospital units report a climate that increases the risk of patient injury. It's pretty serious, and it's unbearable. I see that the Minister of Health has asked health professionals for a plan, and that is good, but that we have a culture in Norwegian hospitals where they refuse to express their views on workplace conditions, is an isolated risk of patient safety. Finally, I am pleased with the clarification that came about the notification system from the Council of State. The reason for my concern that this was not something that the government felt was that the government party has not joined the comments about this in the setting. Then we wait for the Arianson selection, and there it is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e470	I refer you to the post from the representative Morten Wold, and I am very pleased that he has brought forward our good results from the election campaign, and that we are now running over 200 municipalities. But then he also says that he responds to us challenging the Minister of Health to follow up on the intentions of the cooperation reform. Then I just want to remind you that the interaction reform consists of two parties, and a major challenge to the interaction is the strength relationship between the two, that the municipalities experience as initially much weaker than the specialist healthcare service. An area that designates itself where there are very many errors and adverse events and the high risk that quality does not meet its objectives, that is when you have communication across administrative levels. Interaction reform is crucial for the follow-up of the underlying intentions – the provision of comprehensive services for the patient with a holistic course of treatment. Then it is also this government that has removed the financial incentives for the municipalities. Once we've traveled around and visited the municipalities, including the Right-Handed municipalities, we've seen that it was precisely that they got financial incentives, which enabled them to get closer in terms of creating equivalency between the two. So the Minister of Health is responsible for the entire healthcare system, including the municipality, and when there is such a difference between two parties, the Workers' Party believes that there is an additional responsibility to ensure that there is good interaction between municipal health and specialist health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e479	I believe with certainty I can say that it was neither with hurries nor with joy that the representative Mr Wold referred to the 203 rapporteurs of the Labour Party in the municipalities. But it actually gives the municipal politicians an opportunity to do some of what we've done today. The debate we have here is incredibly important. I would very much like to see more municipalities follow up the same way and had the same debate every year, because this is incredibly important for those who need municipal services, and to ensure that they provide even better municipal services in the future. The representative Toppe was interested in this with nutrition. The government has just made more efforts, including: project Golden Meal Moment. The Committee was in Sandefjord and looked at one of the hospitals where the focus is on food and quality, and where it is actually used by all the employees, both those in the kitchen and those in the kitchen who are out feeding patients, to ensure that you get the right food, the good food and the quality that it should be on the food – precisely because you are concerned about the challenge of many becoming undernourished and not getting enough nourishment when you are in the institution. I think it is very good that we get such an annual message. So it's always like there are some challenges to it, because it shows that there are some things that you have to do something about. That's exactly why you get this, and that's why it's important to be notified about the challenges within these services. Of course, it can be used in a negative way to those who have a lot of deviations. But if you correct and do something about the deviations, you have a culture that this is something you do something about, it's very positive, because then you learn from the mistakes you make in the organization. You take over the mistakes that are being made, and make sure you do something about it, to improve the services of your citizens. That's great. Nevertheless, I would like to point to a municipality and show how important it is to do something about this. It turns out that 10 months back in time a manual overview of all deviations was carried out, so now it is not possible to know how many deviations there were in this municipality longer than 10 months ago. It's serious, because that means you haven't taken this seriously and done anything about the deviations that are coming. That's what's important, and that's why this is so important, and that's why I also hope that the local politicians are now following this up. As a local government representative, I am going to challenge my people in my municipality, and there is the Workers' Party and the Center Party that governs, so I am happy to see that my municipality is going to get a majority to implement this, so that we can put this on the agenda and do something about it – close unwanted events and make sure that patients get the best possible service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e492	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e506	In the report we are discussing now, the Riksrevision believes that it has found in particular three points that are interesting for us to discuss. Firstly, the municipalities have not yet established systematic public health work, secondly, that work on public health and public health measures is not sufficiently knowledge-based, and thirdly, that public health work is not well anchored in non-health sectors. You can taste these things a little bit. Some very exact expressions are not, and there might be some questions you can ask about the administrative audits, when they come to such discretion-based conclusions as this. That's why we have to approach the question a little bit more systematically. Health is affected by several factors, such as the physical assumptions of the individual, living habits and underlying social and environmental factors. Several of the major public diseases in Norway are related to lifestyles and can be prevented or at least delayed. Public health work is the overall response of society to factors affecting health that promote health, balance social health differences and prevent disease, injury or suffering. Then it's worth noting that outside the topic, an evaluation of healthcare treatment falls elsewhere. The purpose of this survey has been to assess the systematic and long-term nature of the public health work of municipalities and counties, and the extent to which the State instruments support this work, as well as the systematic and long-term performance of regional and local public health work, the need for municipalities and county municipalities to have an overview of the state of health of the population, and the extent to which they have an overview of the positive and negative factors that may affect the state of health. For those of us who have seagoing times from local government or city government, there is reason to remember that public health work is not a specialty for local government, and that you can really go for it if you want to put ideal professional goals on everything a local government should do within all the fields. I also think that this is confirmed in the study on which the report is based, where there is a considerable difference between the availability space that the municipalities themselves believe they have and the instruments that the Riksrevision believes they have. Here there is a difference in the perception of everyday life, and I keep a button on the description given by our elected representatives in municipalities and county municipalities. I would also like to say – and it is written in the comment – that there has been a strong consensus on the overall approach within the Committee. However, we have separated layers in some areas, as a majority made up of parties with the majority in this case has also pointed out more specific systematic aspects and the way in which these problems are presented in the report. We have e.g. called for the production of public health work to be served on some points by a more everyday language, a more rigorous use of concepts and clearer conclusions. Because it's probably not a secret that you can always do more if you're in a field first, that you can always do it more systematically. I guess this isn't an area that we'll ever identify as fully developed, and that's perfect in all areas. The question is whether these administrative audits will have the indicative effect if it ends up with a general message that yes, that is very good, but it can be done better – without being more specific in addressing the problems. We also think there is a lack of overall reflection on how Norway now stands in the international picture. It is true that we have grown up to have the best health in the world – unless you read sick leave statistics – but what's worth reflecting on is that Norway's population has gone from the highest life expectancy in the world to that we have now fallen to a fifteenth place for women and a tenth place for men. For Norway in particular, there may be reason to think about this fact, because it is not that the economy has been a limiting factor in our public health work for the last 20 years. The explanation therefore needs to be sought in a weaker organisation and perhaps less effective instrument use than the countries that are now in front of us. So it might be that the explanation is a completely different place, far beyond the political sphere, that the level of public health in every society is not just the basis of government policy, but that it is also the sum of the choices that we as individuals make every single day. Of course, they have health effects. This is why we note that the theme of the survey will naturally limit itself to the work of public health authorities and, of course, less systematically address the interaction with the people's own attitudes and the possibilities of authorities to influence them. A cost side of this approach, which I cannot see as very different, is, of course, that the report is given a strong emphasis on public organisation and objectives as the main drivers of public health work. Responsibility – not least personal responsibility – and roles are not described with the clarity that one might expect if this would be very interesting to read. At this point, the parts have also separated a little bit. Some have thought that personal responsibility may be overemphasized by the majority, and the minority will probably explain their views. For the review of the Health Directorate, it says: ‘The main challenges related to public health in the plan are, as the Health Directorate sees it, to operationalise public health work.’ Yeah, I guess that's what I was inside at the beginning of the article. They continue to write: ‘The plans often describe broad perspectives followed up in practice by small actions.’ Corresponding in the case of KS: ‘In an interview with KS it is stated that the municipalities expressed in the public health opinions of the Public Health Act that the law was ‘frontier’.’ The efforts of local authorities are essential for achieving the national public health objectives, and they are nevertheless the ones who say this. The Ministry of Health and Welfare must make a comparison with the municipalities between the national interests which can justify government governance and the reasons which justify local freedom of action in the field of public health, including in this area. A majority of the Committee has also found it striking that the parties perceive their real situation as quite different and thus also the space for action. While the Health Directorate believes that the municipalities have ‘a broad set of instruments to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Public Health Act’, the report states that ‘there is a question of municipalities and county councils that they have sufficient framework conditions to carry out the tasks outlined by the Act’. The broad range of factors affecting health is problematic to deal with in practice, and the study has shown that the municipalities are striving for the complexity of public health work, as described above. one of the five principles of the Public Health Act, ‘health in all we do’. There is little guidance in such a mantra. We have also allowed ourselves to show that the county offices in the interview have expressed that ‘all’ are positive to public health and that the message is easy to embrace in local and central policies. One municipality states that ‘the public health field may seem somewhat unclear and diffuse, and that this may result in lower performance’. Another municipality experiences that ‘broadness makes it difficult to grasp the whole and to gain a common understanding of what public health work involves across sectors’. It is described as a general challenge that the public health field is not measurable, that cause-effects are often poorly documented and that effects have to be viewed over a long period of time. I have been problematizing certain aspects of the report, which could probably lead to answering even more interesting questions, but it is outside the scope of the topic we have today. We are grateful for the work that has been done, while the management report does not provide very good answers to the major questions, but fortunately it is not the only matter that the Storting is dealing with on the occasion of the case. In addition, the Committee supports and provides information on the measures notified by the State Council itself in its correspondence with the Riksrevision during the preparation of the report, by letter of 9 June 2015 at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e553	As can be seen, the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess to what extent the public health work of municipalities and counties is systematic and long-term and to what extent the State instruments support public health work locally and regionally. That's a big question. What I think we can agree on, and as we agree in the vote, is that public health work is the social effort to promote health, to balance social health differences and to prevent disease, injury or suffering. New public health laws were adopted in 2011 as part of the interaction reform, because the Stortinget felt that the health reform had to be followed by a renewed effort to address health-affecting social conditions. And the law gives the municipalities a clear responsibility for public health. That is what has been decided by the Storting. State actors have important tasks in supporting the public health work of municipalities and counties. The National Audit Office’s survey is about how this work is followed up in practice — how public health work is done in municipalities and county municipalities, and the extent to which the State’s instruments work as intended. I would like to comment on one point by the rapporteur: the conclusions reached by the National Audit Office are, in this context and on the background I have now referred to, quite discouraging. I do not refer back to the conclusions – the rapporteur did so in a good way. However, unlike the rapporteur, I believe that these conclusions are of a concrete nature and have a content which is such that it is necessary for the Committee to comment on them and that it is necessary for the Storting to follow them up in the way we do in the vote. I expect the Council of State will be able to comment on this later in the debate. I believe that these are quite concrete things, contrary to what the representative Tetzschner said. That is not the view we have in this report, these are quite concrete conclusions. The prevalence of non-infectious diseases has increased since the 1950s, and social health inequalities have increased. Systematic and long-term public health work should help to balance social health inequalities and provide better health for the whole population. However, the study shows a lack of consistency between challenges and measures taken in municipalities. It's serious. For example, many municipalities have identified major challenges in areas of living conditions and social inequality, while measures taken by municipalities are limited to addressing precisely these challenges. For almost half of the municipalities, living conditions and social inequality count as the biggest public health challenges, but only 15 pst. indicates that most measures have been taken in these key areas. Here it's obvious, councillor, a lot to go on in the ongoing health work in the municipalities. I mention this as an example and as a play on what I think is the main issue of the Workers' Party in this case: Individuals have a fundamental responsibility for their own health – of course – but the role of society is at the same time so crucial to providing all equivalent opportunities and to balance social health differences that legislation and strong governance are necessary. This is not something that can only be left to the individual. It's not a line that society can follow. In the setting, the most important distinction goes here, just as the representative Tetzschner also said. The Workers' Party, together with SV, will therefore warn against undermining this by excessive individualisation. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party also show in the attitude that public health law applies to municipalities, county councils and public health authorities, as well as to private and public activities where these conditions can have an impact, directly or indirectly, on health. The aim of the Public Health Act is to contribute to a social development that governs public health and balances social differences in health and living conditions. The Public Health Act replaces the public health provisions of the Local Health Services Act, including targeted health protection and the law on county tasks in public health work. I am pleased that the Riksrevision's study shows that the municipalities are positive to the Public Health Act, and that close to nine out of ten municipalities believe it has led to increased bets on public health work locally. The same majority also refers to public health communication, Good Health – joint responsibility, and will stress that municipalities should and must have a broad responsibility for public health work, in order to organise the community in order to promote good health and prevent disease. However, the country must also contribute by laying the overall framework for national public health work and contributing to population-oriented action, so that healthy choices are made easier. The same majority as I referred to here would point out that removing the free fruit and green scheme for high school students is not a contribution in the right direction. The introduction of one hour of physical activity in school every day is another public health measure that, in the view of this majority, the State should have taken responsibility for in cooperation with the municipalities. We regret that that is not the case. It is serious that most municipalities have not yet established systematic public health work. Near 60 pst. of the municipalities have not discussed public health challenges and presented objectives and strategies for public health work in the municipal plan. We expect, on the basis of the study we are discussing here in the Grand Duchy today, that the government will ensure that the public health requirement for public health work to be anchored in a plan is now followed up in this work. Furthermore, the National Audit Office points out that work on public health and public health measures is not sufficiently knowledge-based and that municipalities are calling for more knowledge of health promotion factors, living habits and social distribution of health. It was a prerequisite for the Public Health Act that public health authorities should contribute to good key data and knowledge-based information for the public health work of municipalities and county councils, and we believe that the Riksrevision report should lead to an improvement at this point. The national audit also points out that public health work is not well anchored in non-health sectors. We agree, and will stress that this applies both to municipalities, county councils and the state. The state has a great responsibility and should stand out as an example for follow-up. That's not the case. A broader anchoring of cross-sectoral public health work by government authorities would clearly contribute to increased cross-sectoral investment, including at local and regional level. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are fully committed to the principles of the Public Health Act, where the municipalities were given a broad responsibility for public health, and that responsibility was added to the municipality as such, and not only to the municipality at its health service. It's worth noting. There was a clear discussion about it, and it's worth noting exactly this. These members consider that there is a need to ensure political anchoring of the principal and general aspects of public health work and that the legal requirement for the municipality to address the public health challenge in the municipalities in the context of the municipal planning strategy was sensible and necessary. It is in place once again to state that there is no disagreement about the individual being responsible for his or her own health – of course not. But everyone is responsible for public health. Reducing social health inequalities is essentially about correct distribution and creating a society with small differences, good welfare schemes, inclusive working life, health-promoting schools and kindergartens, a healthy environment, but also measures against specific risk factors for disease. Specific national measures are required against the four major risk factors: unhealthy diet, inactivity, drug abuse and unhealthy radiation. In addition, we know that solitude and isolation are also major risk factors for reduced years of life and poor health. In its good report, the National Audit Board has recommended strengthening the follow-up to municipal public health work, and we see that municipalities today have few financial incentives that really promote public health efforts. The economic and human gain is often in time for many years. Of course, this is challenging for our municipal politicians. We believe that the financial arrangements for municipal health services must be kept under constant review, so that prevention measures will ‘remuneration’ for municipalities to implement, and will point out that the ability of municipalities to prioritise public health work must be seen in the context of the Riksrevision findings in Document 3:5 on the use of resources and the quality of healthcare after the implementation of the interaction reform. Finally, I just want to say that we agree with the points and recommendations that the Riksrevision makes in the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e591	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on the position on this matter. Public health is the societal response aimed at influencing factors that promote health, balance social health differences and prevent disease, injury or suffering. The Public Health Act, adopted in 2011, laid a clearer responsibility on the municipalities for working with public health across sectors, ensuring that public health work becomes knowledge-based, systematic and long-term, both in municipalities, county municipalities and in the state. The more central actors, such as the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Health Directorate, the National Institute of Public Health, the State Health Authority and the county councillors, have been given important tasks to support the public health work of municipalities and county councils. There is an important area in which the National Audit Office has gone into to investigate public health work and to find out the state of this. It is somewhat discouraging that most municipalities have not yet established systematic public health work and that the work carried out is not sufficiently knowledge-based. In addition, there is a lack of part of the anchoring of work outside health. For this reason, there appears to be a need to strengthen the follow-up to public health work. The Minister of Health and Welfare informed the National Audit Office in June 2015 that the government will focus on strengthening the knowledge base, assisting in the implementation of the Public Health Act in the municipalities and strengthening the work on anchoring public health across sectors. This seems reassuring and supported. The sum of the choices we make as individuals every day may have health effects, and the study should also take into account the interaction with the people's own attitudes and the possibilities of authorities to influence them. However, one must be able to say that the efforts of municipalities are essential in order to achieve the national public health objectives. The Ministry of Health and Welfare must make a balance between the national interests which can justify government governance and those which justify local freedom of action in public health. Many important public health challenges are known, and measures to reduce them are already defined in health strategies, such as the NCD strategy – i.e. for cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and chronic diseases – and public health communication. It is probably indisputable that facilitating increased physical activity in all parts of the population will be a very important measure to promote public health and reduce disease. Another example is measures that contribute to the reduction of alcohol and tobacco use. Public health work is prevention, and one has to wait many years before seeing the economic and human benefits of work. In any case, everyone has a responsibility for their own health, while everyone has a responsibility for public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e613	Public health work is long-term, and it embraces wide. All sectors of society are affected and the instrument is comprehensive. These may range from physical measures, such as the development of good and efficient walking and cycling routes by municipalities, to the promotion of a rich cultural life and other intangible values. Public health is a broad concept. It's also part of the challenge. The short-term effects of measures may be difficult to measure. At the same time, it is well documented that public health spending pays off in the long term. It's good for the individual citizen, it's good for the community, and it's good for the community. The theme of the National Audit Office’s report is the work of public authorities on public health. The report therefore focuses on public organisation and objectives as the main drivers of public health work. At the same time, it must be said that public health work can also be seen from other angles, where, for example, individual responsibilities are stressed more strongly. However, given the starting point of the report, the Riksrevision has done a thorough job, where there is particular reason to note that there are still major deficiencies in municipalities in establishing systematic work to strengthen public health. The most important health work is to prevent people from getting sick. Prevention must therefore have an even stronger focus than it has today. Public health and disease prevention are important for increasing the quality of life of individuals and for reducing the costs of treatment that could have been avoided. Prevention and health promotion must address people of all ages with different needs and assumptions. Prevention must focus on both mental and physical health. Early efforts are important, both for children and among the elderly. The Christian People's Party wants a social development that strengthens public health and balances social health differences. The Public Health Act obliges and must be accompanied by an economic effort to facilitate the follow-up of public health work in each municipality. The National Audit Office's study shows that municipalities have been given financial support in the context of public health work, but at the same time there are few economic incentives that promote public health at large. There are also limited penalties related to non-implementation. It is important to make this visible, as the report now does. In the view of the Christian People's Party, there has been far too little funding for systematic public health work. We are not at a level that is in line with the expectations that national authorities have for the public health work of municipalities. I'm not going to go into a budget debate on this. I just notice that the Riksrevision points to something central here. There are few economic incentives that promote public health at large. At the same time, according to the report, there are also limited penalties for non-implementation. The health promotion work in the community environment should take place in cooperation between the municipality, non-governmental organisations and user organisations. In the short term, evidence of health and economic gains from public health measures may be demanding. Often we see that other areas are given priority as a result of more concrete and urgent needs. KS points out that municipalities perceive that it is healthier for the money to implement public health measures, but that the benefits of implementing such measures are on time. KS calls for more research into public health measures based on impact assessments. They also point out the challenges of thematic calls from the state and county councils and that this has resulted in widespread use of project funding for public health actions in municipalities, and to a lesser extent in long-term and coherent efforts. There is a need for systematic research into the impact of public health measures, in order to provide a basis for good priorities in municipalities. According to the Public Health Act, municipalities also have an obligation to take the necessary measures to improve public health. The Riksrevision study shows that close to 60 pst. of the municipalities have not discussed public health challenges and presented objectives and strategies for public health work in the municipal plan. The size has pointed in particular to the responsibility of balancing health differences arising from social conditions. The national audit report shows that many municipalities have identified major challenges in areas of living conditions and social inequality, while measures taken by the municipality are limited to addressing precisely these challenges. Nearly half of the municipalities regard living conditions and social inequality as one of the major public health challenges. Only 15 pst. indicates that most measures have been taken in these areas. In the public health report, report. St. 19 for 2014-2015, more systematic use of the development and use of research-based knowledge is announced. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate shall further develop the public health profiles and indicators of local public health work. It shall include, inter alia: surveys of the implementation of municipalities are carried out every four years. It is a major challenge for the public health perspective to be widely discussed and included in the policy priorities in the field of health and care. There are, of course, measures being implemented outside these arenas, which will result in less pressure on health and care services. As I said at the outset, public health work is long-term, and it embraces wide. There are relevant measures to strengthen public health in most sectors of society. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Riksrevision has, as one of its recommendations, just to strengthen the work of anchoring public health across sectors, among others. by increasing the visibility of health impacts and by facilitating a greater involvement of sector authorities outside of health in public health work. I refer you to the rapporteur's review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e639	First, I have to say something I have not said before, and that is that I would regret the presentation of the case by the rapporteur. It was, in my opinion, both a little informative considering what is at the heart of the matter, and also a little comprehensive about what has been discussed in the committee. As far as I know, the Right voted in favour of the Public Health Act, a law that was passed in 2011, and what we are about to deal with now is the Riksrevision report from the period 2012 to January 2015. Now we're at the beginning, and it's incredibly important that this important report and this setting help to get this work right. It's incredibly important that it gets straight, because it's demanding, it's comprehensive, and that's why it's a thorough attitude that we in the Center Party have in our comments. The centre party has seen the need to write its own professional policy note summarising the whole, so that people can get a cant above the theme and thus better understand what the parties think about the content of public health work. So we've gone out of commenting to clarify what our positions are. As I said, it is a demanding matter; realising public health work in municipalities is a demanding topic. The Public Health Act was adopted in 2011 and concerns both municipalities, county councils and state health authorities, as well as private and public activities, where such conditions may have a direct or indirect effect on health. And the whole purpose of the Public Health Act is to contribute to a social development – I stress contributing to a social development – that strengthens public health and cushions social differences in health and living conditions. This is an extremely important matter for the Centre Party, because it is helping to smooth out differences in health and living conditions. The main features of the law were that the responsibility for public health work was added to the municipality, above all as it was in the past: to the municipality's health service. It is a guiding principle throughout the work. It was the responsibility of the municipality to have an overview of the state of health and factors affecting it, and it was the responsibility of state health authorities and the county council to make information on health status and factors affecting it available and to provide support to municipalities. This overview of public health challenges in municipalities should form the basis for work on planning strategies, on the work in the Planning and Building Act. We are talking here about an overarching theme that is also going to materialize in the Planning and Building Act. It is essential that small roles are given a safe school route — it is one of the practical examples, just to take the course — and the municipality should take the necessary measures to meet local challenges. Therefore, it is very gratifying to learn that the National Audit Office's investigation shows that the municipalities are in favour of the Public Health Act. It is important to point out that for this public health work to be done, it is necessary to interact with non-governmental organisations. There are few areas where there is more to be recovered by cooperating with the voluntary sector than in public health. Public health competence in the municipalities of the law was ensured through the continuation of the requirement of a municipal doctor. The local doctor is usually central, and the County is also central, by assigning one to the responsibility for supervising this work. Norway has joined the World Health Assembly to reduce premature death due to cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and chronic lung disease by 25 pst. by 2025. And when we get this interaction between the municipalities and the state, which lays the overall framework, it's going to be easier for the people to make the healthy choices about their public health. As the representative Kolberg had in mind, we have had examples that one has taken away the fruit-and-green scheme for high school students, and we haven't had an upsurge in one hour of physical activity in school every day. This is, in our opinion, an action that should be taken to contribute to such an obvious development. It is serious that most municipalities have not yet established systematic public health work. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, it is probably linked to the fact that this has not been simplified well enough, one has not said it in a clear enough way so that the municipalities can go into it. We expect the government to ensure that the requirements of the Public Health Act are complied with by anchoring in the plan, but it is essential that municipalities get a simple manual on what this is all about. The condition for the Public Health Act was that state health authorities should contribute to good key data and knowledge-based information to municipalities and county councils, and the National Audit Office points out that we should get improvements at this point. But that's the way it is in this case as in every case -- we have a lot of knowledge, and we have to be able to act on the knowledge we have. Undisputedly, it is said to facilitate more physical activity, to facilitate a reduction in alcohol and tobacco use. Think about all public meetings where it's about eating, could start by offering non-alcoholic beverages first, and then get those who want alcohol to ask for it, as opposed to the way it is today. These are small measures, which will also be cheaper for the public. It is obvious that we can also help prevent and detect mental illness and drug addiction without any particular knowledge. I agree with the National Audit Office's observation that public health work is not properly anchored in sectors outside health, and that concerns municipalities, county councils and the state. This has – as the representative of Kolberg had in mind – a great responsibility for the state and should be set as an example for follow-up. That's not the case. So the centre party is fully committed to the principles of the Public Health Act, and we are fully committed to this being a sensible and necessary law. But I would like to stress that everyone has a responsibility for their own health. Many people don't take that responsibility that much until you're over 40, and then you'd like to, and when you're over 50, you'll get even more. It's a good idea to take it a little bit earlier. But what we're talking about now, in addition to the responsibility for your own health, is taking responsibility for public health. It's everyone's responsibility, to reduce the social health inequalities, which many people have been dealing with, about the right distribution, about creating a society with small differences, good welfare schemes, including working life, health-promoting schools, healthy environment and told about specific measures against risk factors for disease. It's all about diet, inactivity, drug abuse and unhealthy radiation – I stress unhealthy radiation. It's going to be a theme to a far greater extent than what we've been experiencing today. For one who is concerned about soil and plants, know how sprays were previously viewed as curant but are not curative today. We have a similar problem with radiation. I just want to end by saying that it is an important national audit report that we are now dealing with. I want to pay tribute to the National Audit Office for its work – on the practice, so far, of a law that was passed in 2011. It's important to get on the right track. It is important to get a cant in the case, to gather power in what are the most important areas where public health needs to be improved. As individuals, we must take responsibility for our own health, but public health is politics; public health is a matter of political priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e671	The next speaker is the representative Ketil Kjeseth. The President cannot see that the representative, Mr Kjeseth, is in the Chamber, and the floor goes to the Council of State, Mr Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e674	The recommendation from the National Audit Office is in line with the challenges that the government has also described in the Public Health Communication: Mestring and opportunities, as the Stortinget dealt with before the summer of 2015. We place great emphasis on strengthening the knowledge base, assisting in the implementation of the Public Health Act in municipalities and strengthening efforts to anchor public health across sectors. The Committee has interesting reflections on the relationship between the use of legislation and more contractual instruments. I believe that legislation in this area is important in order to place responsibilities, while at the same time more contractual instruments may be appropriate in the development of the content of the work. The implementation of the Public Health Act is also thoroughly evaluated in the context of the evaluation of the interaction reform and the supervision of the Health Authority, in addition to the studies carried out by the National Audit Office. Overall, this provides us with a good basis for further development of the work. I agree that there has been too little involvement in public health work with the instruments outside the public sector, for example. the importance of cooperation with the voluntary sector and industry. That's why it's been an important part of the government's commitment to public health just to assume that we also establish cooperation with others, as we have done with business in the area of healthy food. We also work actively with the voluntary sector, for example. working towards solitude. I would like to stress that the Public Health Act gives municipalities a clear responsibility for caring for the health of the population and provides them with a tool to discharge this responsibility. At the same time, it is important to stress that responsibility is limited to the means available to the municipalities. The government presented its public health policy in the Public Health Communication: Mestring and opportunities. It was widely connected. One of the new steps in public health communication was to lift mental health to become a public health challenge that is similar to physical health, because we all have a mental health. Another factor was the importance of active ageing and, not least, of facilitating healthy choices. Some of the contributions have called for work to help municipalities get an overview of their own situation. Not least the representative Lundteg spent a lot of time on this topic. The Public Health Institute is now publishing public health profiles for all 428 municipalities of the country, and public health profiles are also published for each city in the major cities. On 9 February 2015, the public health profiles for 2015 were presented. This year, new indicators have also been introduced, on alcohol use, on physical inactivity, on solitude, on participation in leisure activities, among others. – and social inequality was the main theme of this year’s public health profiles. This is useful in the work of municipalities and local government in developing a public health policy in accordance with the law. I believe that in the discussion about social action in our public health policy – and when you look at the financial instruments – a very often goes away from what I feel is a cross-political consensus, namely that public health policy is in all policies. The main public health policy takes place outside the health sector; it takes place in the other areas of society. But as soon as you start counting on the economic efforts of public health policy, you have, in my opinion, a too narrow starting point, because it's really like everything in the municipality is public health policy. The main public health policy pursued by the municipality is likely to take place in school policy, in spatial planning, in the efforts of safe and good schools and kindergartens, in cultural policy. And it's in these areas that we see that society is using the largest resources both nationally and locally. The resources we use in health care are very much the price that you have to pay because we have not succeeded in other areas of society. The four major areas representing the main disease groups are all areas associated with non-infectious diseases. There are great opportunities to influence the state of health through public health policy. The U.S. President has launched a plan to break the cancer riddle. The answer is that there are many cancer guesses, but one third of the cancer guess is already solved, it lies in public health policy. There, the United States would have much to learn from some of the measures that Norway has taken to prevent people from becoming ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e693	Then the President will give the floor to Mr Ketil Kjeseth, who has now entered the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e696	I am sorry that I was not present when I had drawn myself for the first time. I'm not going to spend 30 minutes, which I've been given as speaking time. As we discuss the systematic efforts for public health work and we have a law that, after all, has not existed for so long, it is important that we continue to discuss the systems. It is true that not all municipalities have public health coordinators and how they are organised – in the councillor's staff or how it is now – are different. In addition, only half of the municipalities have a municipal psychologist. When a good part of the effort is to prevent the development of mental illness, it says something about having a significant way to go in order to organise systems that support this resource effort and the systematic effort to prevent it. Our life-style challenges are also a major part of that challenge. On the World Health Day, when we discuss diabetes – there are thousands of new diabetic patients per month in Norway – it says that we have a significant challenge in mobilising and coordinating also ideal actors, such as the Diabetes Association, who make a formidable effort, especially to their patients, but who also contribute to prevention. In particular, it applies to those with a migrant background, to whom they are good at reaching, and to whom we as a society need to be better at mobilizing and using to an even greater extent. It says something about the system challenge we're facing. Early efforts to create a good childhood that lasts for life are also important. Today, there is a bit of a carousel that organises the efforts of vulnerable children, and not least vulnerable mothers, which means that they need to use a lot of resources to reach the auxiliaries. Here we have to be better at organizing the efforts around the individual. Then we have – I would claim – a school health service from the 1970s. We had just been through a community reform, we started building high school in Norway. It's still a bit of the way it's organized – in part-time positions and fragmented – and it's hard in some schools to get an eye on that door, which may even be closed. We have to get better at getting these resources to the young people where they are — they stay at school much of the day. There we have a great job to do and also to get new professional groups to work with children and young people. In view of this, the debates on free fruit and green and one hour of physical activity each day become a bit of small debates. We need to think about the big measures here and how we organise the resources, first of all at the stage we are now working on public health. Then we should not forget how we focus on diet and physical activity. But it is also worth remembering that many municipalities and schools already today organize up to one hour of physical activity every day, within the limits they have today. This system effort is very important. Then the debate on individual responsibilities and the responsibility of society is also an important debate. We see new technologies that are being developed, and how it can mobilize each and every one of us to both gain more knowledge of our daily physical activity and our diet, and make a little effort for the big whole. Here, too, there is a lot of good work that we can do on the part of Storting and the state, especially on the information page, when technological developments are raging in the future, to open up, but also to put in place the supportive measures, which are important for each of us to enter into dialogue with those who are in possession of skills. The decision makers are here an example of those who are going to give us advice in everyday life. It cannot be that they are too much behind a barrier – they have to be part of society’s development and participate in technological development. Here, too, we have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e720	I do not know if I need ten minutes to reassure the representative Lundteg, but what I wanted to say – just so there is no doubt about it – is that I declare full allegiance to the objectives of the Public Health Act. What I tried to problem is that if we're first world champions in goals, we also have to see if we're at least circuit masters in implementation. That's why I chose to take this different perspective that has just emerged through the management report. With all due respect for the report, I think the audit says it quite openly, that it is based on a methodology that has a quantitative portion, where a questionnaire with a normal, reasonable response rate was sent out, and a qualitative part, which in this context has limited itself to two county municipalities and five municipalities. Then it's clear that the power of statement and interpretation is to be careful, whether you like the findings or not. The purpose of some of what I said instead was also that we have to be careful not to discuss this over the heads of those we have highlighted as crumbs in this system, when they themselves are not familiar with the description of the major instruments that they are supposed to have. I think we got a very strong illustration of this in connection with the essential component of the cooperation reform, namely that the municipalities should look closely at their budgets, a reward, through the prevention work. I'm not against prevention, I think it's very important that it's driven, and that there's attention to it, but nevertheless, it's hard to specify what it really is, and what the effects we get when it comes to this. I think the debate has just illustrated this, that when it comes to the use of tools, to the concrete, it boils down to the fact that someone will draw out a discussion from everyday school, whether to spend the money on education and otherwise assume that you get food packages from home, or on green and fruit. If this is the big difference in public health work, this illustrates – at least in concrete terms – that the differences in vision cannot be very large. Then you've seen the other end of this very far-reaching debate, where some have also attracted loneliness and cultural experiences. Then we have to make sure that we do not use the public health concept completely according to our own association. At least we have to try to clarify what that means. It is such that a safe way to clear the concept of content is to include everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e729	The debate led to something: the representative Tetzschner declares full allegiance to the Public Health Act. That's good. There is no reason to be world champion in goals and circuit master in execution. That's why I said that this work is so important to get on the right track, because the law is new. The theme is comprehensive, and it is essential that enlargement, government and underlying bodies help those who are going to work with it in municipalities and who are unable to do so on a full-time basis, such as elected representatives or others, have the opportunity to gain a cant above the situation and an indication of the areas that are most important to do something about it. That's what I tried to light up in my post. So we get the most important and possible concreteization of what's going to happen. We're getting a culture and a consciousness of what this is. Now that I have been so strict with the President-in-Office, I shall make a new exception, and that is to boast of the Council of State. Because the post that the council had is completely in line with the reality that I tried to give the impression of. The Council of State said that public health policy is all policy, and it is most important in non-health-related areas. The Council of State said it so precisely and well that health care resources are the price we have to pay for public health policy not being good enough. Glittering! Governments also said that one third of the cancer problem lies in public health policy. Glittering! I don't know that it's a third or what it is, but I realize that how a liver is important to how health becomes. Clean air and soil and clean water are quite essential for someone related to biology. We know how small amounts of swine fever over time affect how the body functions. It would be strange if these environmental impacts didn't help to initiate an exponential cell division, and that's what the definition of cancer is. Exponential cell division is the practical word for cancer. So I thank you for getting a little bit further. I thank you for the fact that the Council of State is on the same track as what was meant by public health. I hope this is clarified in a simpler way to the municipalities, so that large and small municipalities can do their part. Small municipalities have some advantages, large municipalities have other advantages. In both cases it is important to get cant and power at the most important. All the honors of the Riksrevision!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e742	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e756	I will begin by thanking the National Audit Office for a good and thorough work this time as well. I'm not going to give a very long introduction, because the committee is almost unanimous in the matter, and there's no need to highlight any significant disagreements here from this pulpit. I'm going to be very careful to draw out what's particularly interesting about the Riksrevision's findings. And of course, there are some disagreements in the committee that I want to address. First, I would like to say that, as a general rule, the administration of state ownership in Norway is good – very good. That was good before, and that's good now. But I want to stress that it is positive that when the Riksrevision and the control committee have also pointed out deviations in recent years, it is very rare that the deviation is not closed the following year. There I would also like to say that there has been a positive development over the three years I have had the expertise in these matters, and I think that is something the Minister of Industry should be commended for. I also want to set up an incubator. We have been injured to write in the order that the Riksrevision has closed the case that concerns the registration of waiting times by health companies. That's not right. There is an error from our side, not an order that the Riksrevision will close that case. Of course, it has to be followed up, and I allow myself to talk on behalf of the entire committee when I say that. The national audit finds that there are some major differences between the carrying and substantive pension liabilities of a number of companies. It's very unfortunate for many obvious reasons that we don't have to go into detail here and now. But the most important thing in the short term is that if you have the wrong information, it is easy to make the wrong strategic decisions. It is essential for those who are to make decisions in companies, whether they are state or private, to have the right information. If you have good information, you have opportunities to take good management. The Committee supports the recommendations of the National Audit Office at this point in order to address them. The National Audit Office also finds that access to contract specialists does not contribute to the geographically equivalent provision of outpatient specialist health services. A majority of the committee believes that the Riksrevision's findings are interesting, but that the findings themselves do not provide coverage to say that we do not have a geographically equivalent offer. It's not that the person who lives physically closest to a public offer has better access than us. Then it would be like that, for example. The representative Christensen, who is my neighbour in Bergen, has half as good health as myself, who lives twice as close to Haukeland Hospital – or that the State Council of Malta, who also lives further down the road in Bergen, has twice as good access to the Bergen National Opera as I have. Of course it's not like that. This is not how we measure access and quality in Norway. We're measuring whether people get a relevant high-quality offer when they need it. I can, of course, add that the National Audit Office can be right. It is well possible that their conclusion is correct. However, the findings they have made do not in themselves demonstrate the validity of the conclusion. So I'm going to go short on information security and data security in healthcare companies. It's mentioned in the setting – I'm not going to go into it in detail; whoever's interested can read it. But I'm assuming that the Council of State takes it very seriously, and it's my opinion that the Council of State is very concerned. I also assume that the findings will be looked at in the department. Nor shall I spend a long time on the issue of day and day surgery activity development, because there is a consensus between the Council of State and the National Audit Office that the causes of development there can be many and complex. However, an overall committee also argues that the Council of State regularly assesses whether the funding and incentive structure have been properly interconnected – it should be lacking. As far as stage art companies are concerned, the Riksrevision considers that they have not done enough to facilitate cost-effective operation. It cannot be that, if you are engaged in art – and of course you have an artistic freedom that comes with it – you are not expected and demand that the operations you do, with public – taxpayers’ money, be done in the most cost-effective way possible. Special attention must be paid to the staffing and support functions of these stage art companies. A Joint Committee has a expectation that it will be taken seriously, and we hope that the Council of State will take note of that. It is also necessary to add that going on a budgetary balance sheet is not necessarily the same as operating cost-effectively. There is a lot of other things I could draw from the 30-page setting. In particular, the effectiveness of NSB’s alternative transport services in the event of an operational disruption is important for a very large number of people and deserves a thorough follow-up from the Council of State. The fact that you have empty student homes in Bergen much of the year is not good. There is something that the Council of State, in cooperation with the Student Cooperation in Bergen, must address. But I assume that those state councils are reading the part of the setting that is relevant to their responsibilities. It is also the case that the Riksrevision follows these matters closely, so if the follow-up does not take place properly, we will get these matters back. But I'm assuming that the positive developments we've seen at this point are continuing, and I hope that we'll let go of bigger anomalies and not discuss the same things again next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e786	I see to the case spokesman's articles, because if you read the setting, you can see that we're pretty much a few about most of what's written here. We in the Labour Party note the main findings of the National Audit Board in all areas: on pension commitments and pension costs, on the management of the arrangements of contract specialists, on information security in medical-technical equipment, on the development of activities before day and day surgery, on the cost operation of the stage art companies, on the ownership exercise of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and on the management of alternative transport by NSB Persontog. I'll just comment on a couple of these, because if you read the setting, you'll see that we're some with the Riksrevision at all points. The point we disagree on in the committee goes to this with access to contract specialists, where the Riksrevision says: «Access to contract specialists does not contribute consistently to a geographically equivalent offer of outpatient specialist health services.» Such a serious finding from the National Audit Office did I actually think it's important that we notice. It is important for the Ministry to address it and to ensure that an equivalent level of supply is provided, rather than problematizing that ‘there may be other causes’, as the majority put in its note. I'm very clear on that, and I didn't think Bergen City is the best example in an area that has a geographically poor supply of healthcare in this country. And I also want to say something about the somewhat serious comments about the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's ownership practice. The National Audit Office writes – in a kind way – that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has the potential to develop its ownership. I think that these days there's a lot of discussion about state ownership -- it's in the media and maybe not in a positive way -- and the department that gets such a comment really needs to get together and make sure that everyone follows up this year's document when it comes to state companies, in a proper way. Finally, I have to comment on what's going on about the NSB. It's from the Riksrevision's page: ‘NSB’s alternative transport services are not sufficiently efficient for passengers and cost-effectiveness can be improved. The Ministry of Transport has limited information on the effectiveness of the alternative transport service. In the case of planned deviations from regular train service, there is weak coordination between NSB and other transport operators.’» It is good that the Riksrevision points out this and documents it. I think all the commuters know this. They notice it every day, and especially here in the Oslo region. It's not that difficult when it's scheduled to stop, but when it comes suddenly a cold day, or all of a sudden a signal error – or other sudden causes that appear – actually have both the NSB and the Ministry of Transportation a great job to do. It's actually so that when the train doesn't go, maybe 70,000 people are late for work, or quite a few people who don't get their children into the nursery before it closes, so making sure that this is a real deal, is unlikely to be important, therefore I'm glad that the Riksrevision is now documenting it all the commuters have felt for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e809	There is, as the case-rapporteur was concerned, a relatively large consensus on the matter, so I thought I would just do a visit to a few of the comments from the Centre Party and SV. But let me start by saying that the government will create the patient's health service. The patient should be placed in the centre, waiting times should be reduced and quality increased. Norwegian society will undergo major changes by 2030. Developments in the population, age composition of the population, changes in the picture of the disease and expectations of quality and standards will have a major impact on the planning of the health services of the future. Establishing, converting and developing specialised health services takes time. The representatives of the Centre Party and SV know this well, as they – in government – already in Meld. St. 16 for 2010–2011, National Health and Care Plan 2011–2015 outlined the variations between health regions in the use of contract specialists. The National Audit Office makes recommendations to the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the use of contract specialists by regional health companies in its audit report. The government has already taken this on board. We need to make more use of the capacity of psychologists and medical specialists, including those who have contracts with the public. The aim is to reduce waiting times and provide good treatment to the patient. We keep what we promise in the government statement, and now we make it possible for more contract specialists to become involved, and for the contract specialists to be used more. This was said by Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie when he was presented with the report of the National Audit Office. The government’s political platform includes, among other things: that the government will increase the number of warrants for contract specialists and use contract specialists more. Against this background, a dialogue process was carried out in 2014 on the contract specialist scheme between the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the regional health companies. The dialogue included: contract work, reporting and funding put on the agenda, including: changes in the current income system. The framework agreements concluded between the regional health undertakings and the two associations were renegotiated in the autumn of 2015 and entered into force in January of this year. Work on a pilot project in which contract specialists shall assess and allocate patient rights has started. The aim is to start the pilot project in 2017. So the central part and the SV's expectations are already met. The contract specialists are private doctors or psychologists who receive operating grants from the State. Contract specialists assess and treat conditions that do not require hospitalisation similar to outpatient clinics. The contract specialist may offer assessment and treatment by reference from a permanent medical practitioner. Without reference, the operating contract of the specialist does not apply and has to be covered. Health South-East today has 1,100 contract specialists divided into 2,8 million inhabitants, i.e. 2,550 inhabitants per contract specialist. Health West has 300 contract specialists divided into 1.1 million inhabitants, i.e. 3,667 inhabitants per contract specialist. Health Mid-Norway has 145 contract specialists divided into 710,000 inhabitants, i.e. 4 897 per contract specialist. Health Nord has 85 contract specialists divided into 481 000 inhabitants, i.e. 6,559 per contract specialist. Many people would say that we have the world’s best ambulance service: cars, boats, helicopters and airplanes — the help comes. Those who need it come to a hospital that can help. Medical developments today are very advanced, and different specialists are needed. To provide the best treatment, we bring together professionals in highly competent settings and networks to give the patient the best treatment. We solve geography with technology. We're very advanced in technology. X-rays taken one place are sent to a specialist elsewhere, who can interpret them. We're thinking long-term and comprehensive, and we've set goals. Soon we'll be there. When the saintland gets sick in Finnmark, the Finnish State Hospital will be able to look up in his or her journal. Health Nord is first out using this technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e832	State companies manage large values, and it is very important that these values are well managed. The state has a great responsibility to ensure that one avoids errors and breaches of the rules. Unresponsible management can have a major impact both on the company itself and on the state as owner. The companies manage values not only on behalf of themselves but on behalf of the community. Deliberate governance can, in the ultimate sense, go beyond the community and our well-being. The majority regularly deals with the control of the National Audit Office over the management of state corporations, and the overall impression has been, and is, that the management of state companies is essentially good. At the same time, it may be tempting to note that the events of the last days, where the Evening Post and international media have revealed allegedly critical conditions that may seem far from ethically sound, contribute to drawing an image that we like very badly. In the case we now have to deal with, it's about the company control for 2014, and I'm dealing with what's now on the table, what's coming out of the Riksrevision's thorough report. As usual, the National Audit Service has done a good job. The national audit for 2014 has included 42 wholly owned companies, 34 jointly-owned companies, 7 public limited-liability companies, 4 regional health companies, 8 state enterprises, 6 companies organised by separate law, 22 student partnerships and 1 jointly-owned company. For 2014, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Transport have found a basis for comments on the government’s management of the State’s interests. There have also been comments on the implementation of the government's ownership policy in terms of making and following up the real pension obligations and pension costs of the companies, and until then there is a cause for concern. Indeed, considerable differences are demonstrated between the carrying and substantive post-employment obligations of many companies, and for many companies annual profit or loss and equity are significantly weakened when the actual post-employment benefit obligations are taken into account. It turns out that owners have a different view of how the pension obligations and the pension costs affect the financial position of the companies. This is worrying. Over time, this may develop further in a negative direction if no action is taken. I therefore support the Riksrevision's recommendation here. Ministrys should consider how the actual pension obligations and pension costs affect the financial position of companies, and companies should be actively encouraged to make this visible in their accounts. As the rapporteur has explained, the Committee is essentially grouped in its comments in this opinion. This applies in most sectors addressed here. This also applies to the comment relating to the Ministry of Culture, but I would nevertheless like to elaborate a little bit precisely in this area, and that concerns the stage art companies. The National Audit Board points out that the stage art companies have not adequately facilitated cost-effective operation and that the Ministry of Culture has a small overall follow-up to the cost-effectiveness of the stage art companies. The National Audit Office further finds that the Ministry of Culture does not take advantage of the governing powers of the Ministry in the follow-up to these performing arts companies. The Ministry of Culture shall set performance targets for the performing arts companies and shall monitor the effective achievement of the objectives. The Ministry has chosen to exercise caution in its ownership, and I have some understanding of that. That's why I choose to link some comments to just this. The management of ownership in the performing arts sector may be claimed to be in a special position. Art and stage art are not always as measurable, and we're also dealing with the principle of arm's length distance. The State shall not directly intervene in the artistic priorities but shall, of course, at the same time ensure the sustainable economic development of the institution. This is a dilemma. The art must be free, but the State has a responsibility to maintain the framework, that the use of public funds is in line with rules, purposes and assumptions. The National Auditor's in this issue, and I'm now mentioning it here separately. I think this sector differs somewhat from the others. The National Audit Board points out that ownership and target management are mainly carried out as part of the grant management, while any ownership requirements and cost-effectiveness targets are set out in the annual grant notes. The National Audit Office believes that the principle of arm’s length distance can be respected through both grant management and ownership management. As far as the last point is concerned, I note that the Ministry will review the guidelines for ownership management of companies. I think that might be useful, so that the follow-up and control of grants to stage art companies can be better integrated into the ownership of the companies. At the same time, we see in the report that it is emphasised by the Ministry that dialogue between the Department and the companies must take place within the framework of the arm's length principle and be adapted to the specific and administrative resources of each company. I agree. I think that is a correct and well-defined principle. The economy provides a framework for artistic activity, and institutions must have sound financial management. The risks inherent in the artistic choices made must be within a sustainable framework. It can be demanding – artistic ambitions and uncompromising on the one hand and financial soundness on the other. This is the responsibility of the institutions to keep order and to make sure that each public crown is spent as much as possible. The State shall lay the framework. The arm's length principle limits the possibilities for an isolated assessment of the cost-effectiveness of stage art companies, and the management of the department cannot interfere too much with the artistic freedom of the institutions. I notice that the Council of State in the report is on this track, and I understand this perspective. With regard to the remaining findings in the report, I refer to the detailed comments on the suspension made by healthcare companies, which have also been addressed by the case rapporteur, and I have noticed the report's findings regarding NSB Persontog's handling of alternative transport during settings and major delays. Like the rest of the committee, I end up here with the recommendations of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e860	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good overview of the matter. I would also like to support the representative of Gruvan, who pointed out the need to make the pension obligations visible. It is a unanimous committee that points it out. There is a very big difference between the carrying and the real pension liabilities, there are tens of billions. It has to come out, in the times we are now entering, so that we get a better overview of the commitments that the public sector has. It's an overall committee that's behind it, and I'm very happy about it. I also took the floor to address the use of contract specialists by regional health companies. The Centre Party refers to the purpose of the Swedish Special Health Service Act, which is to promote public health and to combat disease, injury, suffering and disability, to contribute to ensuring the quality of the service, to contributing to an equivalent service provision, to the optimum use of resources, to contributing to the adaptation of the service provision to patients’ needs, and to the provision of services to patients. This is described in a very good way in Section 1 of the Health Business Act, which states that the purpose is to comply with the Special Health Service Act and «provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it when they need it, regardless of age, sex, residence, economics and ethnic background». What the National Audit Office has come up with, which is their recommendations, is that the Ministry of Health and Welfare ensures that the use of contract specialists by regional health enterprises contributes to providing the population with geographically equivalent access to outpatient specialist health services, and that regional health businesses ensure that the home of contract specialists contributes to a more – and I stress this – geographically equivalent offer of outpatient specialist health services. We know that what we're talking about here is central, and the Central Party is fully behind the findings, references and recommendations of the National Audit Office in this investigation. The contract specialists contribute to a significant proportion of outpatient treatment provision: 28 pst. of the somatic and 23 pst. in the field of mental health protection for adults in 2014. For the Centre Party, it is worrying that there has been little growth in the number of year-on-year works for contract specialists since 2002, despite the need to assume an increasing need. Agreement specialists are concentrated in the central areas of the country, including: in the metropolitan area, and according to the National Audit Office, does not contribute well enough to geographical smoothing. The centre party believes that this fact threatens the overall objective of specialist health care and health care companies to provide an equivalent service to all those who need it, when they need it. It must be a clear objective and governance signal for regional health businesses to ensure a fair geographical distribution of contract specialists, both within somatic areas and in the field of mental health protection. We are seriously looking at the National Audit Office's observation that geographical distribution of contract specialists, especially in the field of eye and mental health protection, in some regions actually contributes to increasing geographical differences, not reducing them. We assume, as the Riksrevision, that there are no systematic differences in the need for outpatient specialist health services between central strokes and less central strokes when – and I stress it – demographic differences are taken into account. They are also those living outside the central areas, who like to have the longest travel distance to other outpatient specialist health services, and this leads to a health offer that helps to reinforce health inequalities. A geographically equivalent offer of contract specialists must be an overall objective, which the regional health establishments have to provide. For this reason, regional health establishments may need to redispatch vacant leave to other disciplines, if necessary, and not least to set up new homes. We in the Center Party believe that it is more important to spend money on new contract specialists than to give priority to funding for the free choice of treatment. We clearly see it as difficult to change the subject area of what is called non-free home agreements, but we note that the use of the word ‘production’, which has been used in this context – it is called among other things. the continuation of homes after satisfactory production – a choice of words that is incompatible with what contract specialists are actually working on, namely patients, people with diseases requiring treatment and follow-up. The centre party refers to the practice that vacant leave is usually continued after sufficient activity and supports the National Audit Office’s observation that this may lead to a lack of priority for patient groups with the highest needs. We believe that healthcare companies should be required to follow up contract specialists better, to have an overview of offers and practices and to ensure good professional cooperation with public hospitals and outpatient clinics. It is also important to ensure the proper prioritisation of patients, so that patients with the highest needs are given priority first, not those who pay the most. We also refer to the Riksrevision's recommendation to follow up contract specialists with a particularly high level of activity in order to assess whether the service offer is proper. But it is that capable people like to get a lot of good work done, so one should not only follow up on them with high activity; one should also perhaps more closely follow up on those with low activity. We expect the Ministry to immediately follow up the observations of the National Audit Office on the quality and activity of those who charge the homes, so that users of the services experience equivalent services throughout the country. Finally, I would like to say that the figures referred to by the representative Holthe – namely that the number of inhabitants per contract specialist was very different, and that there was a clear correlation with the fact that there were several inhabitants behind each contract specialist the further away from one came from Oslo – confirmed to the degrees of reality that I have given here, and I thank for the support for it. I hope that there can be a collection of things in common. I would also ask the Council of State to comment on this in the Chamber today, so that we can get the Council of State's assessment of the distribution of contract specialists, on which Holthe's representative also paid great attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e887	The representative, Lundtigen, was right at the heart of a point in which I agree with him, namely, that if you read a message to the Minister of Health to follow up high-activity contract specialists almost as if it were supposed to trigger suspicion in itself, it is in this area, which depends on productivity to have prosperity – just as we are in all other areas of society – a crazy approach. So I'm glad Lundtigen took that point. The second point, which several have commented on, is the use of contract specialists. In this regard, I have to say that some of the posts are based on what I see as quite contradictory, namely that you can implicitly command the contract specialists to be where you want to make agreements. This would then be a better choice in areas where contract specialists are located, as for natural reasons, there is no such thing as a policy of ordering. What has also been referred to is on page 6 of column 2 of the option, and this is a quote from the Riksrevision's review of this: ‘In mental health too, the consumption of outpatient health services is mainly the lowest in the least central municipalities. The national audit assumes that there are no systematic differences in the need for outpatient specialist health services between smaller and more central municipalities, or between health enterprises, when consumption is adjusted for demographic differences between municipalities.» I have recorded in one case earlier today that the National Audit Office wants to be knowledge-based, but this is where you have forgotten what you in the trade unions recognize as a systematic difference. You can't make the assumption made by the Riksrevision in the vote, that is, just correcting for the demographic basis, that's the same need in large and small municipalities. In this sector, it is well known that there is something called an urban factor, not to say a metropolitan factor. By that it is believed that living in cities and big cities is a major form of disease. There's a lot of reasons for that. Firstly, it is easier to fall outside, both socially and at work. It also has to do with finding other living conditions in cities, not least the lack that often exists on the family structure and the community that makes you better cared for if you are in this grey zone. Whatever these components result from the final result, it's at least recognised in psychiatry that there's something called a metropolitan factor. This has also been seen to have been the effect of reducing the number of bed places in large cities under previous health ministers based on an average assessment. It has pushed up the need for outpatient services in these areas. Then I think it's going very wrong if you're not fully familiar with what might be the background to the fact that, on the one hand, you've reduced the number of bed places and have pushed the offer over to outpatient services, which, of course, must exist in larger monn in the larger municipalities. I wouldn't let this point stand undisputed and pass by, as the debate progressed and they stayed at this point in particular. I would like to encourage the Minister of Health to just look at the big city factor in the further planning of the offers in this field, because it is not only related to the contract specialists, outpatient services, district psychiatric centres, etc., but it also has to do with the alternatives patients have when they do not use this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e909	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this case, but since I was challenged directly to say something about the contract specialists, I'll do it. With regard to the work that I have undertaken by the government to extend the use of contract specialists and improve the scheme, and not least the cooperation between the health regions and the contract specialists, I would like to refer to the post of the representative of the Progress Party, who explained well about it. What I was challenged on was the geographical distribution of the contract specialists. Of course, it's important to have a good geographical distribution of contract specialists when we see the country as a whole, but what we don't have to do is to calculate availability to contract specialists at a distance of miles, because very many of the contract specialists work in areas where the patient rarely needs, for example. a single day surgery. They depend on having a rather large patient base to have a broad and effective activity, and then the availability for an entire region depends on the contractual specialist operating at the place that has the best communication availability across the region, and it is often in the city. If we had put in the lead for the contract specialist to have his activity elsewhere, it would make the service less accessible to the entire patient base. So one has to think that there is a logical reason why contract specialists are often in the same place as the public authorities have decided that public health services should be, that is, at the place that is most readily available to most people, in cases where they need health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e918	In my post, I said nothing contrary to what the Council of State is now saying. It is quite obvious that too many people will find that the distance to a contract specialist is much longer when they live pig-headed than the other way around. I fully follow the reasoning of the Council of State on that. But I also noticed that the Council of State joined Holthe's posts, where the point was the same as mine, namely that there is a very large difference in the number of residents behind each contract specialist in different parts of the country. I understood the Council of State so that he wanted to do something about it, and it is possible in connection with vacant homes and new homes. That's what's at the heart of this, because we're talking about contract specialists -- it's an agreement between professionals and the public. The representative, Tetzschner, says that one cannot order the contract specialist, one cannot have the order. No, one cannot, but it is an offer that is made through an economic remuneration and professional requirements of the public, and thus a seafarer can influence where the contract specialists are to be located. The public must ensure that the purpose is realised with the use of the money it has. Otherwise, I agree with the representative Tetzschner that there is an urban factor and a metropolitan factor in this. I think it was a good clarification, what the representative Tetzschner came with. I expect that the observation he made here is so obvious that it is something that the Riksrevision has taken due account of. But it is a factor that should also be taken into account, and it is under-consumption versus over-consumption of specialist health services, in this case contract specialist services. There is a general recognition that when the distance is large and the availability is small, the threshold for using an offer is much higher than when the distance is short and the availability is good. Nor is it a bad hypothesis to say that there is an excess of such services in large cities. What is considered as the need to cure is something other than what you consider necessary to cure when you have a greater distance from the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e941	As everyone knows, the Riksaudition normally follows up administrative audits three years after matters were dealt with here in Stortinget. If no necessary changes have been made after three years, the matter is followed up again the following year. That's the pattern of these questions. The document we are discussing today, i.e. Document 3:1 for 2015–2016, mentions the follow-up of nine administrative audits. Seven cases have been closed, while the Riksrevision's investigation into the reorganisation of the tax administration and the Riksrevision's investigation into the police's work on profit crime is continued. So you could say seven things are added, while two things are followed up. With regard to the National Audit Office’s study on the achievement and use of the objectives of the Directorate of Integration and Diversity, the Riksrevision assumes that the Ministry will follow up on the fact that the measures taken lead to the necessary improvements and increased achievement of the objectives. The Committee agrees and understands and agrees that the matter can be closed. With regard to the property management survey of health enterprises, where the aim of the study was to assess whether the property mass of the specialist health service is managed and developed in a good and efficient manner and in accordance with the overall leadership, the Committee has noted that it is now set up to prioritise maintenance in the long-term economic plans of regional health enterprises and understands that this case can also be closed. Secondly, the examination of the free-hospital selection scheme, which was intended to assess the extent to which the authorities meet the objective of the scheme, will be carried out. The National Audit Office refers to several actions undertaken by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, including measures to ensure that all aspects of healthcare inform patients about the right to free hospital choice. The Committee welcomes this. As regards the hazardous waste management study, it appears that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has launched several measures to strengthen the control of hazardous waste management, including: have introduced changes to the pollution and criminal procedure laws providing increased penalties and better grounds for authorities to exercise transparency to detect illegal exports of waste. The National Audit Office notes that the measures taken in this area can have a positive impact, but underlines the importance of follow-up by the Ministry. The Committee also agrees to this. Furthermore, a number of measures have been put in place following the National Audit Office’s inquiry into the Food Safety Authority, including: by ensuring a more consistent procedure in matters of supervision, approval and appeal. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision stresses the importance that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in cooperation with the other departments concerned, continues to follow up and is pleased with the work of the Food Safety Authority in this area. The survey on efficient use of resources in Nav included, inter alia: for the purpose of assessing whether an efficient use of resources was established in the performance management of the line. It appears that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has implemented several measures, including the establishment of the Nav Management. The case-handling time has now fallen, but sick leave is still high. The National Audit Office therefore assumes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs continues to focus on reducing sick leave. On that basis, the Committee also agrees that this matter may be closed. With regard to the National Audit Office’s study on rehabilitation in healthcare, more measures have been launched by 2010, but the Riksrevision suggests that since many of the interventions are in the initial phase, there is no basis for assessing their effects. The National Audit Office records that work on the development of performance indicators for the rehabilitation services was only started in the autumn of 2015 and is not expected to be completed before 2017. The Committee welcomes the fact that, in the context of the annual risk assessments, the Riks revision will assess the need for a new management audit in this area. The Committee also agrees with the Court of Auditors' assessment that, for these seven cases which have been closed, necessary changes have been made after three years, so that the cases are not followed up again next year. Then, as I said, there are two things to be followed further, which I, on behalf of the Committee, and which the rapporteur on the matter, would like to mention a little more. It is primarily about the Riksrevision study on the reorganisation of the tax system, which was dealt with in the Stortinget on 26 March 2012. The purpose of the Riksrevision study was to assess whether the results of the reorganisation of the tax base in the period 2008-2009 were consistent with the Storting decision and assumptions. In letter of 26 March 2015, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Finance to explain the status and measures taken to follow up the main conclusions of the report and the comments of the Audit and Constitutional Committee in the Innst. 182 S for 2011-2012. The Ministry replied in letter of 26 March 2015. The Ministry gave a supplementary reply, which the Riksrevision has assessed in the following way: ‘The Court of Auditors records that a number of actions have been implemented in areas where weaknesses were identified in Document 3:4 [[2011-2012]] The National Audit Office notes that the Ministry of Finance has failed to control the number of controls and that the control activities of the tax administration are to be based more on risk and materiality assessments. This has given more accurate controls, but at the same time the scope of control has been significantly reduced after the introduction of new control parameters. The National Audit Office therefore stresses the importance of the Ministry of Finance continuing to monitor developments in both the scope and composition of the controls carried out and the total amounts uncovered. The National Audit Office records that several measures have been taken by the tax authorities to improve the quality of the Tax Information Guide. Despite these measures, external agency measurements show that the quality of the tax information responses has not been improved’ — not improved — ‘from 2011 to 2013. A prerequisite for compliance is that taxpayers receive correct and complete information when they turn to the tax rate. In addition, reference is made to the fact that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, in its position, underlined the importance of providing the public with accurate information when making use of the Tax Information.’;» The Riksrevision will therefore follow this case further, and having regard to the follow-up of the Riksrevision is an overall committee of the opinion that it can be established that the reorganization has been largely successful and that we are satisfied with this. We have also noticed that the Ministry of Finance has taken a number of measures to improve the quality of work in the tax rate as a result of the reorganisation carried out. The Committee endorses the National Audit Office’s recommendation on the importance of the Ministry of Finance’s monitoring of developments in the scope and composition of the controls, and would stress in particular the importance of the National Audit Office’s emphasis on the need to be correct and complete in relation to the answers to the tax bill when tax payers apply. On this basis, the Committee welcomes the continued follow-up by the Riksrevision to this matter, but on this basis. It was nice that the Minister of Finance came and heard this. I think she agrees with what has been said here. The second point to be followed is the Riksrevision's investigation of police work on the mining crime, which was sent to Stortinget on 31 January 2012 and dealt with in Stortinget on 24 May 2012. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation was to assess the extent to which police work on profit crime complies with Storting’s decisions and assumptions to prevent better, respond more quickly and clarify more. As a general remark, the Ministry states that in the number of notifications, the objective of the pay crime has been significantly reduced over the last four years. I almost wanted to repeat this sentence, because I notice that in the big public debate this disappears a little bit. But in fact, there is a significant decrease in the number of reviews over the last four years in terms of profitability. According to the Ministry’s assessment, this is due to targeted and conscious work in many police districts, not least as a result of good cooperation across police districts. In particular, the Ministry will highlight the importance of the rapid emigration of illegal residents in Norway, in cooperation with police in other countries. The Ministry points out that the near-police reform could play a major role in resolving the problem and the results of the police also in combating profit-criminalism — the overall clearance rate. However, the total percentage of clearance in national winnings has fallen by only 0.7 percentage points since 2011. The variation in the percentage of information between police districts, from 31.6 p.m. to 11,3 p.m., is too large in the Committee's opinion. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry will follow this up with the Directorate of Police. The national audit must also follow this closely. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the use of DNA evidence is an important factor in the resolution of winning crimes. The Committee would stress the importance of the ability of all those performing operational services to secure DNA traces. Although the number of reviews has fallen, there are still large numbers of darkness. The Committee endorses the Riksrevision's view that there are still major challenges in police work on profit crime. It is therefore important and necessary, despite the fact that the number of notifications has decreased, that the Riksrevision continues to follow this case. In addition, the Committee has no other comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e989	I will just make a few comments on the National Audit Office's study on the achievement of the objectives of the Integration and Diversity Directorate and the use of instruments for the settlement and qualification of refugees, which was sent to the Stortinget on 11 November 2010. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study was to assess whether the achievement of the objectives in key areas of integration was in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge, and how the IMDI contributed to the achievement of the objectives. It was also an objective to assess the management and follow-up of IMDi by the Ministry. In a letter dated 26 March 2015, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion to state the status and measures taken to follow up the main conclusions of the report and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs' comments on the matter. The Ministry replied by letter of 18 May 2015 and by letter of 11 August 2015. It is therefore nice to note that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion in the 2015 letter of award has made it clear that IMDi's responsibility to ensure the transfer of experience between municipalities and the dissemination of good practice to municipalities with weak target achievement. Furthermore, it is positive that it is introduced as a governance parameter for the Directorate that the planning and implementation of training in Norwegian and social sciences and the introduction programme by municipalities should be strengthened, and that good practice should be documented and, in particular, disseminated. It is also worth noting that several of the measures focus on training and transfer of experience and competences from municipalities with good performance to municipalities with weak results and low experience of qualification work. I share the Riksrevision's opinion that it is positive that municipalities with weak results are encouraged to participate in many of the measures. I therefore expect the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion to follow up on the fact that the measures taken lead to the necessary improvements and increased achievement of the objectives. When the Riksrevision has now concluded the matter, I also expect the matter to be followed up in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1018	On behalf of the Committee, I would like to say that we have reviewed the State Council's protocols for the first half of 2015. This is a constitutional task within the meaning of the Basic Law § 75f, and according to Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 14-9, first paragraph, it is the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that is to review the protocols and give the vote to Stortinget. I just want to briefly link some comments to the unanimous setting: The committee has noticed that we have no dissidents in the government during this period. The Committee has no comments on the examination of the cases of pardon during the period. Furthermore, the Committee has no comments on the rules laid down, amended or repealed in the first half of 2015 or on the appointment of officials during the period. In summary, the Committee has nothing to say and the review of the State Council Protocols for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2015 has thus been submitted and proposed for approval of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1037	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1051	It is now the case that we are dealing with Document 1 for 2015-2016, which is one of the most important documents on which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is working in the course of a year, and the document, which everyone here knows, concerns the review of Norwegian administration. The Stortinget is hereby authorised to exercise this control over the executive, inter alia. through this annual audit of the government but also of the national accounts. The audit of the year shows that the country’s accounts and budget lines are of a consistently high quality. Of the total of 227 state-owned establishments that have received audit reports, there are 30 establishments that have received significant observations, i.e. 30 out of 227. 21 activities received significant comments on the implementation of the budget. Only 9 businesses have received an audit report subject to what is known as the modified report, due to errors in the accounts, or that the statutory auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the total of the accounts does not contain material misstatements. This must be characterised as a very satisfactory result of the audit, I would say. It is a unanimous committee that supports such an opinion on my part. This shows, on a general basis, that there is satisfactory governance with the financial resources of the State. However, what we in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs are more concerned about is that the Riksrevision continues to report on serious weaknesses and deficiencies in several areas of social crisis, and not least we believe that it is particularly serious that shortcomings are repeatedly pointed out without them being corrected. Here I want to take a little stop. Now I've been on the Control and Constitutional Committee for six years, and I say this every time, but it doesn't really help. I know I said this last time as well. This is a common problem for both government and government, and it has nothing to do with the government color. Here we're dealing with a general problem. There are some areas, and I'm going to spend a lot of time on it in a moment, where we obviously can't fix the mistakes that the Riksrevision points out, and that we agree in Stortinget that need to be corrected. I'm saying this this way, because it's an expression of something a great representative of a pulpit shouldn't say, but I'm saying it anyway, this is an expression of frustration, because it's continuous. The National Auditor says his, the Committee says his, the Storting says his, and then it doesn't help anything. There is a significant problem and a grievance in the submission of the suspension related to Document 1 this year. Changes have been made in recent years to improve the transparency of government financial governance. In 2014, a new common accounting plan and standards for the preparation of annual accounts for State activities and funds were introduced in the light of figures reported to the government accounts. The new requirements for annual accounts have been introduced, inter alia: to improve public transparency in the use of public money. It appears from the review of the Riksrevisions that it has been demanding for many establishments to draw up an annual report containing notes within the prescribed time limits. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision’s recommendation that the guidance material be updated in the light of the experience of the year. So until what I'm going to call in this context is particularly serious, and I think that's actually very serious. It is important that both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance listen carefully to this, because it is very special that we are presented in Document 1 that there is an accounting that cannot be accepted. The revision of the year has revealed that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not followed up the accounting reporting for underlying activities well enough in 2014. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision regards this as highly critical – highly critical; everyone in this room knows what such an expression means in the Stortinget – and indicates that the lack of reliable accounting information means that the Riksrevision cannot carry out its statutory tasks as the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge in a satisfactory manner at this point. The Committee therefore endorses the Riksrevision's criticism, which is thus 'highly critical' in this field. The Committee therefore considers that this should be followed closely by the Ministry in order to ensure that the activities of the underlying establishments are carried out in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. Then I said this, and the committee agrees. I expect the Minister of Health in particular to explain this very point during this debate, because of course it is a very serious criticism of such a large amount of accounts as is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Health. The next is that the Riksrevision shows that there are serious weaknesses in the information security of a number of state establishments. This is, as I said, one of the repetitions. Several establishments have also received previous comments on information security deficiencies without the necessary results being achieved. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee takes a serious view of the deficiencies identified here. The review for 2014 shows that there are significant weaknesses also with the economic system of the labour and welfare sector and the infrastructure built up there. The Committee has noted that, according to the audit, the State of Labour and Welfare does not have a satisfactory system for the prevention and detection of fraud involving sick pay. The Committee considers this to be serious and asks the Riksrevision to follow up on this in future audits. It would be good if the Ministry of Finance also had an eye on just this. Furthermore, there's one thing that we're referring to here in particular. The national audit has identified significant deficiencies in the process of processing and sending biometric passports. The Committee has noted that similar audits have been carried out in Belgium, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal and Switzerland and that Norway, compared with these countries, is very poor. The Committee considers it extremely serious that there is no satisfactory safety and control of the process of processing and dispatching such passports. The Committee therefore asks the Riksrevision to follow up on this in the forthcoming review. The State’s Transport Disaster Commission investigates the course of events and causation factors for accidents and serious incidents in the transport sector. This year’s review shows that the follow-up to safety recommendations for the road sector is too poor. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Transport has not established a good enough system to monitor the implementation of the security measures. The Committee considers that the Ministry should follow up on this, so that the necessary measures are implemented and actions taken in the light of safety recommendations are evaluated. It is also – and now I am not going to use that word too much – a very special matter, because the Committee has this time received a secret, confidential report that cannot be mentioned in its breadth here in the main hall. But what the committee has decided to say is that this year's review has revealed a serious defect in the Home Security report that has been reported in this particular classified report. I say here, so that the Minister of Defence hears this, that the Committee joins the recommendations of the Riksrevision in the classified report and will state that the government must immediately lay down a plan for the operational improvement of the current deficiencies in Home Affairs. After detailed examination of the government's grant management following the disclosures of some major defaults, the management of grants improved considerably. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Riksrevision reports that, through the revision of the year, there appears to be a consistently better enforcement of the grant management legislation. The Committee has noted that, inter alia: The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has put in place a series of procedures and measures to comply with the requirements of the Financial Regulation for the Ministry's grant management and the requirements of the Administrative Act on Stability. However, the Committee would point out that there is a need for improvements and would ask the Riksrevision to follow this up with the departments concerned. So to another special case. It is very serious that in 2014 the Riksrevision has revealed that the requirements for permanent security measures around the departmental buildings have not yet been met in accordance with the requirements of the regulation on object safety. The Committee has noted that other security upgrades are also severely delayed or are pending. In the opinion of the Committee, it is very serious that the requirements of the Permanent Basic Safety Regulation are not yet met and that other security upgrades are severely delayed or delayed. This shows, in the Committee's view, that, despite the conclusions of the 22 July report on, inter alia, the follow-up to this area. the lack of awareness of the implementation of safety measures is not sufficiently serious. The Committee considers this to be critical and urges the government to strengthen immediately the follow-up to permanent security measures. We remember the discussion after July 22, about the Grubbegata and all the other things. We're almost where we were, and we have to do something about that. That is the point made in this report, and the Committee endorses the points made by the Riksrevision at this point. This is a responsibility that the government has directly, and which it is important to point out in the way I am doing here now. So it's the way, as it always is, that I leave to the other committees that are responsible for the different fields to comment on their areas. I will comment a little more specifically on what I personally am responsible for, before ending this post. It's the Ministry of Finance first. As regards the Ministry of Finance, the Committee noted that the administration of excise duties and import VAT was transferred on 1 January 2016 from the duty and tax rate to the tax rate, while the border control of the customs and tax haven was strengthened, that the central government collection centre was included in the tax rate as of 2015, and that the transfer of the tax collection function from the municipalities to the State was suspended pending further clarification by the government. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision has reviewed the information security of the entire central government with a view to identifying weaknesses in this important area. In this context, the National Audit Office has repeatedly addressed the challenges facing the Ministry of Finance. In 2014, the National Audit Office carried out ICT audits on different parts of the Ministry of Finance’s responsibilities and revealed that the SSB and the Directorate of Financial Management are not considered to comply with recommended standards — SSB, but that the Directorate of Financial Management does not comply with recommended standards! The Committee therefore endorses the comments made by the Riksrevision to the Ministry of Finance for 2014. The Committee recommends that the Ministry follow up the activities of the National Audit Office and ensure that the SSB and the DFØ continue their work on information security and controls in order to give them the intended effect. Finally, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: As I have already said, it is about the lack of object security of the departments' premises, lack of information security in the Husbanken's loan system and Staten Kartverk's accounts. We are very serious about the fact that in 2014, the audit revealed that the Ministry with specific responsibility for this has not been able to follow up the security measures as provided for in the regulation. The Committee agrees with the recommendations of the National Audit Office to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and expects the Ministry to follow them up. In particular, this relates to the protection of the feature, but also to the fact that the Finnish Government's mapping works actually establish satisfactory procedures so that the business is able to produce accounts that provide a comprehensive picture. The Committee would stress that it takes a serious view that the Husbank once again has significant observations, and considers it important that the Ministry carefully monitor the application of information security requirements for the treatment of loans and grants by the Husbank. The Committee is pleased with the revision by the National Audit Office of the internal control of the Ministry's calculation of framework grants. The framework grant to municipalities and county councils amounts to 80 pst. by the accounts of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, and in particular these are significant revenues for municipalities and counties and the basis for the well-being of the inhabitants. It is therefore particularly important that the grants are properly calculated and that payments and accounts are made correctly. The Committee is very pleased that the audit here has shown no errors in some areas – that is good. On the other hand, the Committee is not satisfied with the continued uncertainty as to whether the Ministry of Administration and the ICT Directorate has ensured that the information security of central government is satisfactory in all fields. The Committee notes that an action plan was notified before the summer of 2015 and asks the Riksrevision to examine whether the action plan is being followed up further in practice. I now assume that my colleagues in the committee are involved in their respective areas. This was the general review by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1106	I take the floor as rapporteur of the case for Chapters 6 and 17 of the vote concerning the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs respectively. First, to the Ministry of Defence. The accounts for 2014 show 46.7 billion. NOK in expenditure and SEK 6.8 billion. kr in income, while SEK 2,4 billion. kr has been transferred to next year. The Ministry is responsible for four businesses. The defence has received significant comments for 2014 and has also received significant comments in the last five years. The Committee points out that in the last year the defence has had increased attention to preparedness and operational capability as a result of the development of security policy. Despite this, the Riksrevision believes that there are serious deficiencies in the operational capacity of the Home Security Agency in terms of manning, material and logistics, as well as training and practice. The outcome of the audit has been classified information and has been reported specifically to the Stortinget, as the Committee’s chair briefed. The Committee welcomes the fact that, in response to the report, the Council of State has taken action to strengthen the recruitment and staffing of the Home Guard, to remedy the material tragedy, to improve the logistics of the Home Guard and to strengthen the training of the crew. The Committee expects the deficiencies identified to be highlighted in the work on the new long-term plan to be presented to the Spring 2016 Stortinget. Then go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The accounts for 2014 show 35.9 billion. NOK in expenditure and SEK 265 million. kr in income, with a budget of 1 billion. kr has been transferred to next year. The Ministry’s responsibility includes three accounts. No significant comments have been received from any establishment in the last five years, and this seems to the Committee to be very welcome. The Committee is very pleased that neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor any of the underlying establishments have received material comments in the context of the provision of financial statements in recent years. The Committee also points out that the Control and Constitutional Committee has examined Documents 3:9 for 2014-2015, the National Audit Office’s examination of assistance for good governance and anti-corruption in selected co-operation countries, as set out below. Inner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Refer to the notes in this setting for National Audit Board's criticism of the grant management in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1129	I take the floor as rapporteur of the case for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There have been significant observations relating to Nav’s activities in the last five years. At the same time, this is an enterprise that manages approx. One third of the state budget, and for so many people in our country, should be a major focus on those aspects of Nav that do not function properly. A large and comprehensive modernisation of ICT systems was halted in 2013 when the project as originally planned was simply not feasible. The ambitions were too high and the risk too high. In addition, a complex ICT reform was carried out in a separate department where the project was not sufficiently integrated into the line, i.e. those working with the new ICT system were not sufficiently involved. The Committee considered the criticism of the Riksrevision to be of such a serious nature that two hearings were carried out in the case. Out-of-date Nav ICT systems could stand in the way of the implementation of policy decisions, which, in turn, could lead to a deterioration in the quality of essential services for a vulnerable group of people. Modernisation of the ICT systems in Nav is an essential and necessary factor in achieving the Nav reform in line with the Storting assumptions. The Committee has taken note of the fact that this is a matter which the Riksrevision has indicated that it is to be followed up. On the part of the Committee, it is important that the Storting should be kept constantly informed about the essential aspects of further work on modernising the ICT systems in Nav, and there is reason to recall that a Joint Committee at the Innst. 272 S for 2014-2015 underlined that the management of Nav in this context includes the political governance of the Eta and that it is the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that there are no new exceedances and delays in ICT modernisation in Nav. Nav is important for society as a whole, as well as for the individual user, and it is therefore essential that citizens receive their rights-based benefits in a timely manner. There is also reason to recall the unanimous decision of the Stortinge of 2 June 2015, in which a request for a decision by the government on Project 2 to describe what is to be delivered, progress and financial assumptions, and that the government presents the framework for the further strategy for modernising Nav's ICT systems in terms of progress and economic assumptions. The government has now delivered that matter to Stortinget this spring. The Committee notes that, despite the systematic work of Nav on improvements over several years, there are still significant weaknesses in several of its management areas. These are not new challenges; they are challenges that have been identified and known for several years and have a significant impact on the individual user. The National Audit Office has highlighted in particular three areas where significant Nav deficiencies or failures have been identified. There are shortcomings in internal control and security in the Nav economic system, weaknesses in the management of some instruments to increase work and failure to prevent and detect fraud involving sick pay. One of the issues relates to significant deficiencies in internal control and safety of the Nav economic system. In a system of many transactions and large amounts, good information security and internal control are important. The Committee has taken note of the criticism of the Riksrevision and assumes that the Council of State is following up the correction of the weaknesses in order to ensure that the activities have a well-documented internal control. The Committee has also taken note of the National Audit Office’s observation of significant weaknesses in Nav’s use of instruments to increase the number of people involved. So I would like to stress that Nav today also makes a significant effort to get people to work, but we are also made aware that many different user groups, with different needs, create challenges in the choice of appropriate measures. The Committee notes that the Council of State itself acknowledges that Nav has over time faced challenges with the follow-up of users with a view to transition to work. Lack of quality in the instrument helps to reduce confidence in our welfare management and can hit people hard in a difficult life situation. The Committee notes that the Ministry has started work on a major report which, among other things: should take measures to increase the number of people employed. The Committee also takes note of the National Audit Office’s observation that the establishment does not have a targeted work to prevent and detect social security fraud at all stages of the medical care procedure. We have noted the recommendations of the National Audit Office to make use of the possibilities for more effective work against social security fraud, for which the changes in the Swedish Social Security Act in spring 2013 provide opportunities, and the need to strengthen the prevention of social security fraud. Finally, let me add, and this applies to both the council, Nav's management and the staff at the Nav's offices all around the country: a great job is done every single day by staff in Nav, and it's not supposed to get a sense that most of the stuff is wrong in Nav. On the contrary, there is a lot that works well, yes very well, and a lot has also evolved positively in the years that Nav has worked. But a well-functioning hub is about people, and most of these belong to vulnerable groups that are totally dependent on the benefits they get from the state for the rest of their lives. It's about these people getting their legitimate benefits, the right amount at the right time. It's about meeting them with the respect and dignity we want to meet all people in our society. It is therefore also important that this department addresses the significant shortcomings identified by the Riksrevision and highlighted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1152	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of all the chapters and, in particular, stress what the rapporteur said about the Ministry of Health and Health. It's very special, I have to say, that the Health Directorate's accounts are over 44 billion. kr was transferred to the Riksrevisionen on 29 July 2015. The Court of Auditors’ audit of the accounts for 2014 will be completed by 30 April at the latest, and the Court of Auditors was therefore prevented from giving an opinion on the full annual accounts, as the chairman of the committee said. The National Audit Office finds this ‘strongly critical’. After all, there must be a thorough explanation from the Council of State as to why one cannot obtain the accounts of the Riksrevision within time limits. It's such a big cardinal error that if it had been for individuals, there would have been significant criminal reactions. We just have the Storting to point it out with. Otherwise, I am the case rapporteur for the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The Ministry of Climate and Environment’s responsibility includes eight accounts, and Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund and the Riksantikvaren have received significant comments for 2014. The Riksantikvaren has received significant comments in the last three years and the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund in the last two years. It has also been pointed out by the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has not implemented risk management in accordance with the provisions on financial management in the country. The National Audit Board notes to the Ministry of Climate and Environment for 2014 that there are weaknesses in the Ministry's grant management and recommends that the Ministry assess the following actions: ensure that procedures and guidelines for follow-up to the grant management are established and that this work is documented to ensure that plans and procedures are established to evaluate the grant schemes; It's quite alarming that this isn't okay, because it's been shown several times. We all know that grants are an important tool for the Ministry to achieve its objectives, and then one must have systems and practices to ensure that a person is met and given sufficient confidence. When it's not there, it's serious. It is therefore necessary to take the attention of the Riksrevision to the utmost seriousness and to align the activities according to the recommendations referred to. There is an overall committee that believes this. As I said, this has also been a matter before, and it is quite special that this is not followed up. I expect it to be the last time we get this case, because it has also been pointed out in other contexts that there is a lack of consistency between objectives, actions and follow-up. The ministry may have an ambition to expand in areas that are more extensive than a thing to define the objectives of, and thus also manage to have appropriate instruments and follow-up to, but then one has to take the consequences. Only until the end: there is also an indication that the Riksantikvar has not established good procedures for own grant management. The findings of the Riksrevision have revealed large deviations in a large proportion of cases, and in several cases one has not received sufficient reporting from the beneficiary. It goes on the whole credibility of important measures, the Riksantik product does an important job and takes responsibility for a number of constructions and other devices that the community wants to ensure for the future. We have also noticed that the Riksantikvaren has not provided sufficient guidance to the county councils on how to comply with the country's financial regulations. Therefore, there is an overall committee that considers that the recommendations of the National Audit Office should be used as a basis for the further work of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1174	I would first like to comment on what has to do with the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, for which I am the case spokesman, and then make some comments relating to the area of justice. In the case of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, there are 18 accounts covered by the control, and there are three enterprises under this department which have received significant comments for 2014. It's Brønnøsundregistra, the Fisheries Directorate and the Marine Research Institute. Fisheries Directorate and Brønnøsundregistra also received significant comments for 2013. There is a joint committee behind all the comments in the option. The National Audit Office points to major weaknesses in information security in Brønnøsundregistra, both in the registries system and the underlying infrastructure. There are even demonstrated weaknesses in the information security of the financial system. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries assesses the compliance of information security with current legislation, including: the economic legislation, the digitisation circular and the eManagement Regulation. The Ministry has said that they are working on getting new ICT systems, and in the meantime they will be working on improving the security of current systems. I'm looking forward to the results. In both 2012 and 2013, the National Audit Office wrote letters to the Directorate of Fisheries and communicated that the Directorate has a lack of purchasing strategies, lack of written routine descriptions and insufficient documentation for completed purchases. For 2014, there are still errors and missing at half of the purchases that have been checked – revision of e.g. 15 randomly selected purchases over NOK 100000 – including: breach of the principle of competition. Several of the weaknesses that have been identified in previous years have still not been addressed. The same goes for the Marine Research Institute. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that it is critical that two of the department’s directorates, who traded more than 800 million. in 2014, has a major breach of the procurement legislation and the Ministry has not followed up adequately. The Council of State says that in the further governance dialogue he will ensure that the Directorate of Fisheries complies with the requirements of the law and regulations on public procurement. In addition, the Council of State has asked the Marine Research Institute to draw up a plan to ensure compliance, and the Council of State will follow up this plan. But the whole committee writes in a note that: ‘It is serious that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to public procurement are not complied with.’ I just want to say that I was in on – in my first period at Stortinget – changing that law and making him a very strict law on public procurement. We were very concerned that the municipalities and county councils were going to be very naked, and if they weren't, there were sanctions. Then I thought it would be even more serious when our own directorate does not follow the laws we require others to follow. As I said at the opening, I would also like to make a few comments about the review by the National Audit Office of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, for which the representative Jette F. Christensen is the case spokesman. It includes 20 bills, and two agencies under the department have received significant comments for 2014: the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs. The Directorate of Police has received significant comments in the last five years, and the Riksrevision had the following comments for 2014: ‘– Serious weaknesses in the process of issuing biometric passports.’ It has been informed by the Chairman of the Committee in his first post here. But it's also about ‘– Substantial errors and weaknesses in the accounts of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare.’ The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Justice and Defence assess the following measures: ‘– ensure that the police and officers seat implements the necessary measures to establish adequate security and control of the process of processing, producing and issuing biometric passports — follow up on the satisfactory quality of the accounting work of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare’;» The Committee notes that: ‘remarks that there are significant weaknesses and errors in the accounts of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and that the National Audit Office is unable to give its opinion on the accounts. [[KID]] The Committee notes that, in its response to the recommendations of the National Audit Office, the Council of State writes that it will ensure ‘that the Police and Leniency Committee implements the necessary measures to establish adequate security and control of the process of processing, producing and issuing biometric passports.’» Furthermore, the following option is added: ‘The Committee shall take into account the measures proposed to improve the Riksaudition.’ – This was the case with the Ministry of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1228	I take the floor as rapporteur of the case. 4 and 13 in the vote, which relate respectively to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is nice to note that the National Audit Office does not have any significant comments on the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion for 2014. But two underlying agencies have received comments. Buffetat has received significant comments on breaches of the provisions on financial management in the country in the case of the purchase of child protection services in Buffetat. IMDI has received comments on shortcomings in the management and follow-up of the development of new ICT services. It is important to note that Bufetate has been a reoccurrence among the agencies that have received significant comments, but the Committee points out that the comments for 2014 relate to a situation different from previous years. It shows that the department has taken action and taken action in relation to the matters raised by the Riksrevision. The Committee expects, of course, that the identified conditions for 2014 will also be corrected. Otherwise, I point out that the IMDi has received comments on deficiencies regarding the management and follow-up of the development of new ICT systems. This year’s comment relates to a different area than last year, and the Committee of course expects the IMFI to take action in this area as well. With regard to the Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I would like to make it a little special that the accounts of the Veterinary Institute also contain such significant errors for 2014 and are missing that the National Audit Office cannot give an opinion on the Institute's accounts for this year either. For example, I can show that the accounts for 2013 were in two versions without the Management Board having approved the final accounts. The relationship was discussed by the Committee last year and the Committee expected this to be settled. As the Committee notes, it is highly critical that the Institute is not able to produce reliable accounts for the second year in a row, and the Committee asks – and underlines – that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food ensure that the Institute establishes procedures and control measures to ensure that the accounts can be approved by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1243	I am serious about the lack of communication and control within the Directorate-General for Health and Helfo leading to the Health Directorate failing to produce an annual report for 2014 that included Helfo within the deadline. The Health Directorate was strongly criticised by the National Audit Office because the annual report with annual accounts for 2014 did not contain the accounting figures for Helfo. The accounts of the Directorate for Health include over 40 billion. kr, of which Helfo manages about 30 billion. kr. When the Health Directorate was made aware of this by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the National Audit Office, a new version of the annual report was prepared during July, where Helfo was consolidated. The national audit must relate to the official version of the annual report, which does not include Helfo. The National Audit Office then says that the Health Directorate has not carried out its annual accounts and that therefore it was not possible to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as a basis for a conclusion. The National Audit Office cannot therefore give its opinion on the annual accounts of the Directorate for Health. In addition, the Health Directorate informs that the National Audit Office has had access to all Health Directorate and Helfo’s systems and documents. The Directorate has indicated that there are no comments relating to the disposal of appropriations, operations or internal controls in areas other than reporting at the end of the year. The Ministry has acceded to the Parliamentary Audit Office’s recommendation to ensure that the Health Directorate and Helfo implement the necessary measures to report complete and reliable results and accounting information. In order to remedy the weaknesses, the Ministry has implemented the following measures: The matter has been addressed in the ETA meeting with the Health Directorate in 2015. The floor was ordered to improve the procedures. The 2016 letter of award requires the Health Directorate to provide a proper annual report for 2015. In addition, the Ministry held its own meeting with the Directorate in 2016 to review its accounting procedures. The review must also be linked to Helfo and the fact that, from 1 January 2016, the State Radiation Protection Agency is established as a body in the Health Directorate. There are also some comments relating to the Institute of Public Health, where the findings of the National Audit Office show that there were no satisfactory control tracks between different sources of the preparation of the accounts of the Institute of Public Health and that the National Audit Office has not been able ‘to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as a basis for a conclusion’. This also takes the Ministry of Health and Welfare very seriously. We have followed this up with the Public Health Institute, and asked them to identify measures and carry out better presentation of the accounts. In the context of the major reorganisation of the various units under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the financial management will also now be transferred to the Directorate of Financial Management, and one will then have a completely different type of organisation of this work for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1268	The defence sector shall be well managed. The resources shall be managed properly and at the same time be used efficiently and in line with the applicable legislation and the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. I am pleased that the Riksaudition does not comment on the financial audit of the defence sector in 2014. Good management and internal control are fundamental prerequisites for the proper implementation of the activities and are subject to continuous improvement through sectoral actions. Regulatory arrangements shall be complied with and there shall be good practices and attitudes. We'll keep working on that. The National Audit Board has carried out a compliance audit of the operational capability of the Home Protection System for the financial year 2014 and has thus received notice of serious deficiencies in the Home Protection System. It is quite right, as both the committee chairman and the rapporteur said, that this has come out in a separate classified report, but I would nevertheless like to touch on some of the measures that have been taken, without going into the background and the report. In my view, the report from the National Audit Office gives a good picture of the challenges facing the Home Office and Defence. I have been very clear that HV's operational capability is too low. There is therefore ongoing work to further develop HV and to further strengthen Defence. I see the audit as a very important contribution to that work. The National Audit Office has recommended the Ministry of Defence to assess measures to strengthen recruitment and to ensure a satisfactory crewing of the Home Guard. This is a very complex and multifaceted work. I just thought I'd spend a few minutes describing both some of the challenges and the things we're doing to get better at this. There are, as the National Audit Office points out, challenges with access to human resources in the field of Home Affairs, and, furthermore, the manning of the area structure is a demographic challenge, especially in some districts. This is a well-known relationship from far back in time, and it works for the defense. That is not all you can do with it, as it is the demography it is about, but there are still some important measures that have been taken. The Armed Forces have, among other things: to initiate work to make more protective persons available to the Home Office after completion of the initial service. Some restrictions have also been made in the exemption scheme, and further restrictions are being considered to maintain a higher basis for recovery. Furthermore, efforts are being made to address demographic challenges by allowing personnel to be made available from some strokes to the Home Office in less central areas. In the spring of 2014, the Ministry of Defence launched a comprehensive review of the Home Office Act, the Civil Protection Act and the Defence Personnel Act. See you here, among other things. on challenges between local connectivity and greater flexibility in future recruitment, strength production and nationwide presence, in order to provide the necessary basis for greater flexibility in future recruitment, strength production, device and use of the Home Security structure. The personnel challenges in Home Affairs are a well-known issue for us, and it has been assessed in the Chief of Defense's professional-military council and the position of the Committee on Civil Liberties. This is also an important part of the long-term work we are now doing. In terms of training and exercise, the armed forces have 20 days of training and training each year for command and 15 days of training and training for crews. This has been completed since 2010, which is fully in line with the Storting assumptions. For the Home Protection Area Structure, the exercise level planned for 2016 was in place as early as 2014. In the course of the review of the 2014 budget, the Government had submitted a proposal for a permanent increase of 7 million in the budget. kr to raise the training standard. It is used for five selected forces in the effort forces, so that they can train 30 days annually to improve quality and further improve operational capability. Furthermore, in the revised national budget for 2015, Heimevernet received additional funding of 5.7 million. kr in order to carry out an emergency training exercise with the Army in Troms and Finnmark, and they also received funds for the training of all 12 HV areas in Finnmark HV district during the year. The challenges in the field of materials and logistics are also known issues. Changes in operational needs have resulted in increased material needs and increased expenditure on material operations. The challenges are largely related to the timing of material supply, including the fact that acquisitions have been deferred as a result of the resource situation. During the current planning period, Home Protection has been strengthened annually and introduced new material. Among other things, the allocation to the Home Office increased by 45 million. kr in the revised national budget for 2014 in addition to the planned strengthening. In addition, the government has joined a project for the acquisition of field cars for the Home Protection Agency. The investment project has a size of approx. 520 million. kr. With new vehicles, HV will have access to a transport capacity providing higher operational safety, modern safety solutions for on-board personnel and satisfactory speed. Logistic support for the activities of Home Affairs is a very comprehensive and complex task, taking into account the level of preparedness, the size of the structure and the geographical spread. The logistics concept developed for the Heimevertet is based on a comprehensive and detailed understanding of HV’s activities. In order to ensure flexibility in terms of logistical capacity and costs, the concept provides for increased civil-military cooperation. The concept is based on standardised, mobile and flexible solutions. In addition, emphasis is placed on exploiting the potential of ICT. HV is a foundation of the Norwegian defence with its local knowledge and presence. But in order to have the best possible operational capability for the Defense overall, we also need to look at the whole. As I have explained in my opinion on Document 1 for 2015-2016, the work on measures to strengthen operational capability is an important part of strengthening defence. These are also measures undertaken by the Ministry. It is important that when we now work through the long-term work and are to present a new long-term plan for the Storting, what also concerns Home Protection will be an important part of the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1304	The work of the State of Labour and Welfare affects most of us, and the quality of the work is therefore important. First of all, I would therefore like to say that I am pleased that there have been no significant errors and deficiencies in the accounts of the Employment and Welfare Act. As far as I can judge, it is the result of a good and targeted improvement work in the department. At the same time, I have also noticed that there are other comments that need to be followed up. The Ministry has a good dialogue with the State of Labour and Welfare through its administration and has a strong focus on how governance can be improved. The budget has been working systematically for several years to improve internal control, in line with the long-term plans laid down, as has been recognised by the National Audit Office in its report. I stress that this must be a systematic and continuous work over time. There have been significant improvements, but at the same time I also see that the work takes time. In view of the weaknesses identified by the National Audit Office, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare has indicated that a number of measures have been put in place to ensure that internal control and security of the economic systems are ensured in line with legislation and the internal procedures of the establishment. The directorate’s annual report for 2014 shows that the directorate systematically follows up all the comments of the Riksrevision. I agree with Mr Gruvan's views on the issue of the ICT system. The ongoing modernisation of ICT will play a major role in ensuring good internal control by means of a high degree of automated controls. I want to refer to Prop in that context. 67 S submitted on 4 March of this year, which is now under treatment in Stortinget. The follow-up of the establishment by users is central to the return of the beneficiaries of the redundancy allowance to or from work. Several interventions have been taken to ensure optimal follow-up of users and several follow-up evaluations have been carried out. The Ministry has also carried out several evaluations of the Rapid Reaction Scheme and the services included therein. The reason for the small consumption is, among other things: that the budget was not fully used at start-up because it took time to get the frames in place. I would also like to mention that there is a dialogue between the departments concerned and the social partners on the scheme. So to the remark about social security fraud, which many people have been in here today: it is important that welfare systems are used according to their intention and not abused. Disease money legislation is designed to prevent fraud as far as possible. In addition, the control regime is designed to prevent the promotion of unlawful claims and to ensure that fraud can be detected in the proceedings and in back-testing. Through NAV Control, the department has a specialised professional environment in the prevention and detection of social security fraud. In order to substantiate this important work and ensure correct performance, including prevention of social security fraud, the agency has inter alia: establish procedural standards and key procedural checks. I have noticed the comments and recommendations made by the Riksrevision, and what Stortinget has brought through the handling of the matter, and I will follow this up further. In conclusion, I would also like to say that I fully agree with Mr Gruvean's views that there is a lot of good work going on in Nav, everything is not wrong at all. There's been a lot of positive in recent years, and now it's my responsibility to bring this development to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1323	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1339	Sharing economy is on the agenda everywhere, both internationally and here in the country. In addition, the sharing economy is debated extensively at debate meetings and in the media, with different starting points, and today also here at the Stortinget. Why is sharing economy on everyone's agenda? I'm going to be careful to interpret everyone's interest in sharing economy, but some of the interest lies in the fact that the sharing economy provides both some opportunities and some challenges, and that we all well ‘family’ a little, as the NHO director expressed it in an interview, in terms of what the sharing economy is and is not, and the consequences of these new business opportunities for our societal development. The LO has pointed out that they fear a labour-union society with the sharing economy. The Taxi Association believes Uber is not a co-operation or a sharing economy, but a pirate taxi. The NHO is a little bit divided, but the NHO Travel Life points out that Airbnb is not sharing, but commercial brokerage of space, while Abelia embraces the business models of the sharing economy. The finance minister has pointed out that these companies are going to be outside the economy if we don't make sure they become part of the economy. So what's sharing economy? I'm not going to undertake the task of giving a precise definition of it, but pointing to some of the characteristics of the companies that are defined into the divisional economy. In recent years, many new companies, new business models, have developed, based their business on the fact that anyone can share, borrow, rent, buy and sell – I kept saying, anything – things, houses, cars, knowledge, skills, time or money through digital services. The sharing economy meets the needs of using surplus resources in society. The logic is that you don't have to own, as long as you get access to things and services in a simple and fast way. The costs are low, and therefore services are also more affordable than through traditional companies. Companies have widely different business models, from large companies to small entrepreneurs and users of services. These companies can provide new opportunities for access to goods and services on digital platforms and new market opportunities and innovative business models that create new industries, new businesses and new jobs. That's good, we have to embrace that. Sharing economy is in the right sense a positive contribution to a sustainable economy by sharing services or things we own, so that not everyone needs to buy and own or to know the same things – as long as we can access services easily and quickly. At the same time, individual challenges relate to the sharing economy. The starting point for participating actors is very different. Some participate on the basis of idealistic intentions and parts to contribute to a sustainable society and make better use of the assets, while others participate or contribute to the sharing in return for payment. Uber and Airbnb, as I have already mentioned, are perhaps the most famous examples of companies that are defined into the divisional economy. They're the world's biggest players in their industries, without owning anything physically. Private people, who use their own car to transport others, or rent out a guest room in their own house, have grown past the traditional operators in the taxi and hotel industries in a few years. Examples of Norwegian actors who have established themselves in the sharing economy are FINN, which many of us know, Mojob, Nabobil, GoMore and many more. In my opinion, it is all the different models that contribute to confusion and to the need to clarify what the sharing economy really is, and to ensure that companies become part of our economy and our welfare community, while not choking it in the models. The sharing economy challenges our way of organising society, among other things. employees' rights, pay and working conditions, taxes and regulations. The sharing economy challenges traditional industries with new business models, which include some of the world's fastest growing companies. Questions are raised about whether these companies can automatically be included in existing definitions and regulations of businesses in terms of taxes, requirements for HMS, insurance, employee rights and regulations, or whether new definitions and regulations are required that include them in our economy and our common framework. Today, some of the companies are not automatically included in existing regulations. It may give rise to unequal conditions of competition in relation to traditional business models, as the Competition Authority has also pointed out, and it may result in them operating outside our economy and not contributing to the community. These challenges require their political solution. Several cases dealing with a single company that defines itself as a divisional economy, Uber, are dealt with by the judiciary in several places in the world, including here in the country and in the European Court of Justice. The background is, among other things, that the taxi industry does not consider Uber to be competing on a level playing field with the taxi industry because they do not release regulation and traditional employment because they define themselves as a digital service and not as a transport company. Both the European Commission and the European Court of Justice are now looking at how to define the activities of Uber and similar companies: as a transport service or as a digital service. There have been strikes and protests in several countries against Uber. The definition will clearly have a bearing on how these companies are regulated and on whether there is a need for new adapted regulation. For Uber, the definition decision will have an impact on the liability of the company for vehicles used, for those performing the transport service, for passengers, for salaries, insurance, etc., which in turn could lead to an increase in the cost of the service. In Norway, the legal system has assessed whether drivers driving for Uber have violated the law and have been driving pirate taxis, and they were – at first, at least – exempt from the charge. But the issues don't go away for that reason. Many are now working to get an overview of what the sharing economy is and what it is not, and how it should be defined and followed up, for example. with background in the above. In the Labour Party, we are concerned that the sharing economy can provide new opportunities for easy and reasonable access to consumer goods and services and new market opportunities, innovative business models that create new industries, new businesses, new jobs. We welcome that. At the same time, we are concerned with the challenges they represent – challenges to our way of organising society, among other things. rights, taxes and regulations of employees. We therefore believe that we need to assess the impact of the sharing economy on consumers, welfare societies and employment, and what policy initiatives are needed to ensure rights, regulation and taxation. Is there a need for new regulations, or do we have a framework that includes them? The Labour Party has invited various actors who develop and have professionally based views on the sharing economy to make representations about the potential and impact of the sharing economy on Norway. They all point out that we need to encourage and facilitate opportunities for the sharing economy. Sharing services can complement and challenge traditional services and expand the market, contribute to lower unemployment and Norwegian innovations, more sustainability, increased productivity and high public sector opportunities, among others. simplification and digitisation. At the same time, they all point to the challenges that need to be solved and that I have already faced, in terms of precisely working conditions, taxation, market regulation and responsibilities and security in these companies. They also point out that it may be difficult to place the sharing economy within established structures and definitions and that there may be a need to develop and adapt them. And if you don't do it quickly, it can lead to market dominance for individual companies, and new forms of work can lead to social dumping and black work, more part-time, temporaryity and a more fragmented working life. All of this is a good input to the further work. I am aware that the government has reduced a sample that, among other things, assess the opportunities, challenges and consequences of the sharing economy for working life and regulation. The committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 February 2017. At the same time, the mandate underlines that there will be simultaneous processes in the field and that the work of the sample will not limit progress in the necessary reforms. So then I ask the Minister of Finance: what are the thoughts of the Council of State about the sharing economy, and what processes and reforms is what the Council of State has started and looks at through the selection process and the other processes that have been pointed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1373	The representative Johansen is dealing with a topical issue. The government is committed to facilitating the sharing economy to contribute to increasing the value creation of Norwegian society. We have therefore, as the representative also refers to, set up a public body to look at how the sharing economy can make more efficient use of resources. The Norwegian economy is in a demanding transition. The oil sector will no longer be the same engine of growth in the economy. Faced with economic transformation, the most important thing we can do is to stimulate growth in private competitive business. Therefore, the focus of the 2016 budget is long-term measures that can contribute to growth in the Norwegian economy for several years to come. The sharing economy provides new activities that can promise employment and value creation. The sharing economy is therefore, in principle, also a positive trend. However, it is important that both new and old actors face substantially the same framework conditions so that competition can take orderly forms. Platform-based solutions of different kinds have long been available, for example for second-hand sales. The new thing is that improved technology has opened up new or improved business models in several areas. It may provide tough competition for traditional intermediaries and may require such actors to change their mind. The sharing economy creates new market opportunities. Better use of assets such as houses and tools and new forms of interconnection between providers and buyers can make resource use more efficient. The Norwegian population is already well advanced in the use of digital solutions, and the digital infrastructure is also quite good in Norway. The potential for increased value creation based on sharing economies in Norway should therefore be good, also for sharing platforms established by Norwegian actors. In order to ensure sound competition in an orderly manner, I believe it is absolutely central that public regulation is largely common to all actors, both new and old. It is not sustainable whether new actors base their growth on being exempt from – or more easily circumventable – laws and regulations. On the other hand, the growth of the sharing economy may reveal that some of the existing regulations are too strict, too bureaucratic or not adapted to the new actors. This is one of the things I've asked the sample, which is led by Professor Tommy Gabrielsen, to look into. Generally, as I said, players in a market should be faced with the same rules, regardless of whether they use new or old technology. At the same time, we cannot rule out the exclusion of some smaller actors. Compliance with detailed regulations adapted to large professional actors can become too resource-intensive for small non-professional operators, such as: those who occasionally rent out an empty bedroom. As a result of the sharing economy, more people may go from being employed by an employer to becoming independent contractors. For many, it can be attractive, including: because it gives freedom and flexibility. Many people who are currently out of work can find new opportunities for employment through the sharing economy. Nevertheless, there are some challenges that we need to be aware of, including: related to health, working environment and safety and income security. The sharing economy offers many benefits to consumers. Consumers can get goods and services easier, faster and cheaper. It opens up new opportunities to address everyday challenges, can contribute to increased competition for price and quality, and may also bring environmental benefits. Norway has a high level of consumer protection, and consumer rights are well integrated into business and consumer life. In response to new services on digital platforms, there may be a need for reassessment in this area. The growth of the sharing economy may also affect the tax bases, increase the possibility of tax evasion and challenge third-party reporting and tax control systems. Regulations of the markets, consumer rights and the protection of workers are key themes that I have asked the sample to assess. I hope they'll give useful insights into how these issues can be solved. The issues relating to the sharing economy are linked to the government's work on many fronts, for both efficient resource use and higher productivity in the Norwegian economy, in the public and private sectors. As a result, the work on the sharing economy becomes part of the government's reform agenda. This government has ambitions to make the economy more efficient. In line with the government platform, we will give priority to measures that promote value creation and productivity in the Norwegian economy, and build our policies on the goal of making the most efficient use of Community resources. In order to facilitate new growth, we appointed the Productivity Commission. The Commission recently delivered its second report, with many good proposals on how to improve productivity in industry and resource use in the public sector. The service sector has grown significantly in Norway, and the development of productivity in the service sector will therefore be particularly important for future prosperity. I therefore share the view of the Productivity Commission that the authorities must ensure that the positive growth potential represented by the sharing economy is not hindered by excessive or out-of-date regulation. In its country report on Norway, the OECD gave good support to the Government's reform agenda. The recommendations of the OECD and the reports of the Productivity Commission provide a good professional basis for the necessary reforms in the public and private sectors. That's how we can create new jobs and change for the future. The representative Johansen is asking what processes and reforms I have started. Of the processes relevant to the sharing economy, I would like to highlight four areas in particular. To start with my own department and Tax Directorate, I have asked them to assess whether the current rules and procedures are suitable to meet the challenges of the emerging sharing economy. This applies to both the rules on taxation, the right to deduct and the collection of information. It is essential that proper reporting and taxation of income in the sharing economy are carried out, so that these activities also contribute to taxation in line with the rules. An important issue is the ability to obtain information from sharing or disseminating companies on payments to actors in Norway. Such third party information is important in order to tax the business and calculate the appropriate tax. In the transport sector, the Ministry of Transport has launched an internal investigation process to assess future regulation of the taxi market, in view of the emergence of new application-based transport services. They will assess whether, and how, regulation can be adapted to new players in the taxi market. The Ministry has also requested input from professional organisations and other actors. The government has softened the Working Environment Act, among others. in the case of temporary and working hours. The changes will make it easier for employers to use labour in a flexible way. In isolation, therefore, it may be more attractive to have employees than to base the operation on self-employed and freelancers. The Working Time Committee, which made its report at the turn of the year, recommends some further decorations. The proposals are out for consultation and will be carefully considered. ICT is increasingly being used to organise markets and turnover in new ways, including: in the case of switching or sharing arrangements where consumers are more directly related to each other. For this reason, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has commissioned a divisional economy mission to SIFO at the University of Oslo and Akershus. They will carry out a survey of a range of sharing services operating in Norway and describe how these services relate to the Norwegian market, to the law and to consumers. The government’s policy is based on the objective of making the most efficient use of Community resources. We will contribute to a simpler everyday life for most people. We will give priority to measures that promote value creation and increased productivity. I believe that in this perspective the growth of the sharing economy is positive. The sharing economy can increase economic growth and new actors can help to make regulatory and bureaucracy reforms more visible. In order to ensure healthy and effective competition in order, I believe it is absolutely central that public regulation is largely common to all actors, both new and old. With that reservation, I can assure the representative Johansen that this government would like to welcome actors in the sharing economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1415	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, and I also think it is very positive that we agree on the positive part of the sharing economy, and that it can be a positive contribution to our society and our economy. I also find it reassuring to hear that a number of processes have been initiated which also allow the necessary regulations to be put in place. I'll follow up a little bit more in relation to that. I believe that there is a need to take the necessary regulation of the sharing economy quickly. The Finance Minister mentioned the Productivity Commission, and I would also like to refer to it and its position, where, in addition to the Minister of Finance mentioned, they point out that: ‘To avoid distortions of competition, the new services should meet the same conditions as other services, but it may be necessary to adapt the conditions for the provision of several types of services’;» Which I was in. It's not necessarily that they come within today's regulations. They also say, ‘Lawwork is slightly adapted to the application-based services and results in several of them’ — according to the Competition Authority — ‘in conflict with existing laws’. They also point out that some of the ‘the activity may be directly illegal, for example: in some cases, Uber drivers may violate the Professional Transport Act’, which we were committed to. ‘In addition, if the income from this type of activity becomes large enough, it will be taxable and therefore there will be a crime if it is not reported to the tax authorities.’;» Here's a lot of potential for crime. I'm not saying that someone is breaking the law, but that you have opportunities to do so. Things like Uber, who is being treated in the legal system, make me think that in order to help those companies that are included in the sharing economy have all the opportunities to operate legally and to be within today's regulations, or that we have to adjust the regulations, so that they have the opportunity, it's important that such work gets started quickly. I think it is good to hear that the Minister of Finance has taken initiative with the tax director, among others. What I could imagine hearing more about is the progress on this, whether there is something the Minister of Finance sees will come before the NOU that comes in a year, and how these processes are going to be. The Minister of Finance also mentioned that the government has softened the Working Environment Act and provided opportunities for more temporaryity, etc. We don't quite agree on that. That is why I would also like to hear, when the Productivity Commission also points to the value of tripartite cooperation, whether the Minister of Finance has anything to say about it in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1446	I actively addressed these issues before Christmas, just because it gets increasing attention because we see the emergence of more and more platform-based companies. As I said instead, it gives us many opportunities, but it also represents some potential challenges that we have to find good answers to. Looking at the design of the mandate of the sample that is now working, we have made it very clear that it should not be a sleeping cushion – if you like – in order to push all the questions related to this in front of you. I rather believe on the contrary that it is important to be able to make current changes, whether in the form of regulations, tax rules or other things. I must say that at least so far I have had very good and positive dialogue with many of the actors who are establishing themselves in the Norwegian market. They are on the offer side in terms of getting into arranged forms, they will be good taxpayers, but experience some of the bureaucracy as a strong barrier to being able to operate in a good and proper way. The fact that they come so proactively to the authorities I think is very good, because it makes us in dialogue with them faster to find out what the problem is, whether it's related to technology, applications or other things, on which we can find fast, smooth solutions. So I have all the ambitions to have continuous progress in this without waiting for the sample's final conclusions. They have in themselves been responsible for dealing with slightly larger and more complex issues. We get into some potentially difficult work environment considerations, legal protection. In Norway, the majority of employees are traditionally employed. We now see that more and more people become self-employed or work on behalf. There's nothing wrong with that, but it can do something about rights, pension challenges, etc., which I think is completely natural being discussed. And as I mentioned in my post, consumer rights are also an important issue in this, it may not fall under the ordinary regulations. It's absolutely right that there are possibilities for crime in this if we don't take it seriously. That's exactly why it's important to get involved early, discuss with the actors, with the business organisations, to find the good answers. Having said that, I believe that this is in no way in conflict with the tripartite cooperation. We are also in dialogue with the parties on these issues, they have already given this considerable attention. That's right, as the representative says, there are different opinions about it, but you can choose to pretend that these companies are not growing, or you can meet it actively. I'll pick the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1457	As the interpellant itself is involved, ‘sharing economy’ is a concept used for different ways of using available resources and available capacity – in fact completely independent of digital platforms. However, the contribution of digital platforms is a more effective way of connecting just available capacity and needs, usually with greater security for all parties. Traditional thumb sharks are still present, but it is safer to agree on this via e.g. the feature service BlaBlaCar, where both must be registered and the journey logged. The same is true of private accommodation, which can still be agreed on without the Internet or recorded via the free Couchsurfing or the payment service Airbnb. These are just examples. Most of what is offered in the share economy is not new. We've always rented, replaced, borrowed or sold capacity, services or things we don't need. The difference is that digital platforms make the entire connection process more efficient, which then challenges well-known business models. However, hotels arose in the absence that we had known we could stay overnight when we left. Taxis arose in the absence of their own means of transport or someone to sit on. These have almost arisen in the absence of effective sharing services. That these have existed and have been regulated over a hundred years means that they have been allowed to grow, with the blessing of the authorities, under given conditions. It also wants players in the digital sharing economy. But technology has also changed the assumptions for both new and old actors. Therefore, we need to modernise today’s regulations – in order to provide a level playing field for both. No new industries come to an end regulated. It is important not to suffocate the new initiatives. What is currently highlighted as labour, taxation and sectoral regulation challenges are all policy-made and can be solved politically. An example of an industry-specific regulation is the taxation obligation of the taxi industry, a necessary regulation to prevent the black economy when it arrived, but which may now hinder innovation in payment solutions. In the case of taxes, it is a misguided policy that small jobs below NOK 4000 should not be taxed from – common sense that neighboring girls aged 13 should not have to register as an individual to babysitting. But is there the right regulation today – when both she and everyone more effectively can obtain many small jobs from different sponsors, without ever becoming taxable? It is also a misguided policy that rental income from owner-occupied dwellings can be tax-free, giving lessors through Airbnb a price advantage over hotels and other accommodation sites, which also have stricter security requirements. Is there still the right tax policy? The nice thing is that all of this we can do something about. Technology can also help authorities to solve this better and cheaper than in the past. Childhood services may not need to register as enterprises if the tax rate creates a mobile solution that reports the payment by person number – and Vipps is resolved. But it remains to be seen. I am pleased that the government, with the finance minister at the head, was fast on the ball and is now investigating various solutions, and is looking forward to these being presented. I agree with the interpellant that there are also challenges about employment, rights and pensions. No one wants an unregulated labour market or a layman's society, but I think the fear of this is considerably exaggerated. The experience of most actors in this economy shows that their users either use the opportunity to get a foot within the labour market – and move on to a permanent job when possible – or use the opportunity to get a loved one extra income from small jobs or to rent the car out in the Easter or apartment when it is empty on weekends or on holidays. On the other hand, the challenges of pensions and rights have not really been linked to the sharing economy itself. Already today, we have 350 000 registered individual enterprises in Norway – or 350 000 unemployed workers, if any – artists, freelancers and other self-employed persons who, because they do not have an employer who pays pensions and employers’ contributions, have other rights related to sickness pay and pensions. At the NHO Annual Conference, such as: the precisely mentioned split economy, the large differences between permanent employment and self-employment were also pointed out, and not least the differences between the difference between being employed in the public sector and being employed in the private sector. These are major, important issues that I think there is far too little debate about, and which really are not part of a debate on the sharing economy as such, but where the sharing economy might be an accelerator for precisely these debates. Here too, the challenges are far on the road politically created and can therefore be solved by us, jointly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1478	I want to start by saying that I think the representative Johansen has brought up an interesting interview. This is a very topical issue, which was confirmed – as the representative Nordby Lunde said – at the NHO Annual Conference earlier this year, where the sharing economy was the main theme. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Finance, who has helped to put this on the agenda, including the one on the agenda. by challenging all youth parties, but also by reducing a sample to look at how the sharing economy can make more efficient use of resources. ‘share economy’ is a word in time. It's come because people realize more and more that they can share the resources they have that often get laid, and at the same time get a little compensated for it. Examples of this can be the company like Nimber, which is based on carrying items for people, when they are going to drive the same road and they have free space in the car. Three out of four Northmen have a smart phone today. There is a growing number, and the emergence of smartphones also increases the market potential of companies in the share economy. Technology will be a major part of the future labour market. Workplaces are replaced by software and robotics. Then it's our job to facilitate growth in jobs, both in the development of and within technology. The jobs of the future are not yet created. Who had guessed a hundred years ago that there was oil and fish farming that would be the most important export industries in Norway? Nobody knows what we're living through in 20 or 50 years, but one thing is definitely, and that's that technology is going to be a big part of it. We already live in a world surrounded by digital technology, and it is estimated that by 2020 about 90 pst. of all jobs in Europe require digital skills. We need to facilitate Norwegian entrepreneurs and investors to create tomorrow's jobs. The new technology comes – either will or not. Then we have to choose whether to accept the future with open arms, or whether to try to shut it out and hope it goes over. The party of progress is and has always been a future-optimistic party. Today's regulations may prove to be adapted to yesterday's reality. Here, Norwegian politicians have to dry up to look forward. Norway should be a leading country for the use of new technologies. The Progress Party is ready to implement comprehensive reforms and transform the Norwegian economy into a new normal situation, with good framework conditions and more jobs. The progress party has always been on the part of the self-employed. New industries and more efficient ways of organising themselves will necessarily make some jobs redundant, but new jobs will arise. This creates a whole new market to sell services to consumers. Digital innovation gives us few challenges like that, but it gives us a sea of opportunities. We cannot protect the past from the future. Innovation is about individuals who dare to think new. History is full of examples that opponents of progress have hindered innovation. Being an opponent of sharing economy really reminds me a little bit of those who tried to stop color television. We have to deal with evolution, regardless of whether we like it or not. However, this is not an easy task. The way in which new services are taxed and their emergence can lead to fewer and fewer workers having regular jobs is just two of the challenges. The fact that a large number of enterprises are at risk of falling outside the regulated society is another. The prerequisite for a welfare society is that we get tax revenues that finance our welfare tasks. Then it is our job to ensure that companies in the sharing economy have regulations that are adapted to them so that they can contribute to development and growth – and fresh tax credits. Some aspects of the sharing economy may probably be easy to put into a system. Taxes are likely to be registered via mobile apps, but there are likely to be major challenges. That many companies are global may also prove to be a problem. There will be no simple task for the sample to work on this, but I believe in sum that the sharing economy can contribute to increased value creation for the Norwegian community. It will provide more entrepreneurs, more entrepreneurship and more self-employed, providing greater flexibility in society and for individuals. I look forward to the sample being presented as a result of their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1510	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing the divisional economy, which is an important topic, for discussion. Thanks also to the Minister of Finance, who is active and early in wanting to gain knowledge of both opportunities and challenges related to the sharing economy, by reducing a sample and launching other processes in relation to these assessments. A knowledge-based approach is important. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is very clear that the starting point for the work is the perspective of strengthening value creation. ‘share economy’ means that people will rent instead of owning. The principle of sharing economy is, as many have been involved, in so far as nothing new. Timeshare apartments e.g. has existed for a long time and is based on purchasing access instead of owning. The new feature of the sharing economy is in many ways the technology and deployment of smartphones and the opportunities offered by the Internet to coordinate services. The sharing economy challenges traditional industries. It includes some of the world's fastest growing companies. It raises issues relating to the regulation of taxes, labour rights, the market and other elements mentioned earlier in the debate. The sharing economy creates new opportunities, but it also challenges existing business models under current regulations. Norway enters a period when there will be a great need for innovation and migration in order to maintain the welfare state. In the sharing economy, there are several opportunities that can contribute positively to this transformation: we can achieve more sustainability because we use resources better. We can increase productivity because the resources we have available in society are being used as efficiently as possible. We can increase innovation, especially in the service sector, which contributes to increased value creation and development. New business models with lower capital requirements and lower thresholds for the sharing of own resources can contribute to larger markets and more competition. The public sector can also benefit from the sharing economy. For example, in the United Kingdom: started the Space for Growth project, where public institutions rent empty office premises and commercial premises to freelancers or small businesses. Similar schemes are planned for cars, lawn mowers and other equipment. The sharing economy also presents challenges, and that means that we cannot necessarily face the future's working life with yesterday's rules. Companies with new business models challenge existing businesses and government regulation in a number of areas. Taxes, employment and consumer rights are among these. Existing regulations have come for a reason, but many of them are ready for an update. These must not be a protection for any actors and barriers to establishment for others. At the same time, it is important that both new and old actors compete on equal terms. The political challenge lies in regulating these companies so that we take care of innovation, innovation and the opportunities that this gives to the existing industries as well. Some of the industries challenged by the new business models have industry-specific regulations that may need an update. The ice cream industry is one of these. It can be understood that this industry feels unfairly treated if similar activities can compete without the same requirements for, for example: licenses, driving obligations and tariffs. This does not necessarily mean that the new businesses will have the same requirements, but that current legislation needs to be updated so that the existing industry has the opportunity to compete. One of the driving forces behind the sharing economy is the environment and better use of existing resources. For example, owning an average car costs about $50,000 a year. Nevertheless, it turns out to be unused almost 23 hours a day on average, and it is not environmentally friendly to produce. Car collectives or car sharing are in themselves good for the environment and lead to fewer people having to own their own car. When we know that 40 pst. the environmental emissions around a car are related to the production and disposal of the car, it is actually beneficial for less people to own a car and that it is more used through sharing. In the case of taxes, there are several challenges related to it. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has an ongoing dialogue with the tax administration on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1529	I would also like to thank the representative Johansen for raising an important issue. There has been an interesting debate to follow, and perhaps we will look back at this debate in 20 years' time with a little smile, as we are now looking back at the debates that were in this Chamber on colour television and the television monopoly and these things. The sharing economy also thinks I'm future. It's positive, and as a social democrat, I see the sharing economy as positive because it's democratizing, it makes both services and things available to more, and several of the actors who are doing exciting things now also have positive environmental benefits of it. Whether our management of the sharing economy in the future is going to be judged as a success, I think it's going to be about the will of both the authorities and the actors, and not least whether a manageer can turn around quickly and not be a sink. It is very positive that the finance minister herself says she wants to be active. In addition, I would like to encourage the Minister of Finance also to be inspired by the work that is now taking place around other countries in Europe. Sweden, Denmark and Estonia have been, if possible, even more forward-looking and have had an even greater willingness to adapt and to be a major part of the growth and opportunity that lies there. It has emerged in the debate that the will of the Labour Party to meet this is positive. It may not be surprising that the Workers' Party wants to regulate and reform. This is about facilitating and not creating new barriers. I think that tripartite cooperation is going to be part of the solution to get to this in a positive way. The NHO has been actively involved in the debate. There's also a shared one, but I'll especially draw out Abelia, which I think has done a good and thorough job with this. LO might start the debate by being a little hesitant about this. That nugget is over in a more positive track now. I think that's right – and important. At the same time, I think it is important that we in this Chamber avoid ideological blind spots that can derail the debate, that even when we meet the sharing economy, we are able to create good, broad solutions, which have been the Norwegian history when we meet new technologies and new challenges. I also think this is a choice if you want to deal with what's going on, or if we in Norway want to be part of the spearhead and the development of this. That is why I also want to challenge the government to be more forward-looking, including in the development of the new industry in business policy around the sharing economy. The government has established a more passive industrial policy than in the past. Food-specific bets are put on ice. The red-green government had provided a business message where ICT, digitisation and technology were one of the areas of activity. It was withdrawn by this government. Should we take a leading position also globally, not just dealing with the things that come to us, we also have to dry, and would, building new industries, bet on this type of industry with just industry-specific measures. Then I think we can get exciting solutions where Norway is just part of the development and is at the forefront. I look forward very much to the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1550	I'd first like to say that I'm sure none of us would be against color-tv. I started by pointing out that in all the discussions about the sharing economy, you might be a little fancier about what the sharing economy is and isn't, and that it's a little symptomatic. Svada, the National Librarian has called sharing economy, a new word without content, while different actors have different approaches and different opinions. That's what I think is positive about the discussion about this. When the LO points to the unemployed and the taxi industry points out that Uber is a pirate industry, and even the NHO is uncertain as to what they should believe, whether it is a commercial enterprise or an ideal, to call it that, it is an expression of the need to clarify the concept of a ‘sharing economy’ and that there is a need to include companies in society’s regulation, to call it that. At the same time, there will be a need to define these companies to the extent that they embrace the breadth and also take into account that the principle of sharing will shape societal development in the future. As I said in my post, the Workers' Party is in favour of sharing economy and believes it is positive that new, innovative business models challenge the traditional, and also us in our traditional mindset. The important thing here is, as I was about, both to take advantage of the opportunities, which the representative Tvedt Solberg pointed to, and to make sure to include the sharing economy in society, in our economy. In the further work, we have to be careful not to kill the positive. The idea of making more efficient use of resources and making use of available resources in a simple and reasonable way is good. At the same time, we must ensure that they are included, ensure the necessary regulation and that it is done quickly. I expect that the long-term effects of how the principle of sharing will shape social development in the future will be an interesting debate when the NOW is available. Until then, I hope and encourage – and hope – that we will get back proposals for the necessary legal regulation of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1566	Let me thank you for a very good debate. I think it has been constructive and not least very solution-oriented, and so far away from the debate I think took place in this Chamber many years ago when we discussed colour television. Then I think it went a lot harder for itself, with stronger and far more ideological fronts than this debate has shown. A few comments: I have been in contact with the authorities of other countries on various occasions precisely because there are many places to do so, and we do not need to reinvent the powder if other countries have gone ahead and found good solutions. That is why I have had this on the table in discussions with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. I'm going to discuss it in the United States next week, and of course we're also looking at the experiences that, among other things. has been done in Estonia, which is very much ahead of the ICT side. Then the representative, Tvedt Solberg, asserted that the government is pursuing a passive industrial policy. I totally disagree with that. I rather believe on the contrary that we have been concerned about going through the area and making good, adapted changes to the framework conditions as the situation changes. But I would like to point out that the demand for an industry-specific industrial policy for the sharing economy is not going, because the sharing economy is incredibly complex. Here you will find transport companies, service companies, travel, i.e. a variety of services and services that are not suitable for industry-specific solutions. What is then about more ICT and technology-based solutions is about how we can regulate these businesses faster, more flexibly and more efficiently, find smarter ways to tax. At some point, we have to discuss whether the thresholds established in relation to reporting, when tax conditions occur, etc. are appropriate to meet these types of enterprises that are growing. I just want to end by saying that I really think that the concept of'sharing economy' is a little bad, because under this big umbrella, there are now incredibly many different types of services and businesses that are not really about sharing, but sharing a common thing, that they are very platform-based. So it's kind of not quite right to call all of these companies divisional companies, because they're not at all, but they're all challenging us all at the same time, that's that there's new businesses with a smarter and alternative way to think about, that challenge traditionally established businesses. It means that we have to take it seriously, and I perceive that the Storting agrees with that, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1579	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1595	I notice the great interest in my interpellation! The management plans are a tool for coordinating and prioritising the use of marine areas in order to ensure the sustainable use and protection of marine ecosystems. This means that all human activity must be managed in a coherent manner and that the overall impact on the environment must not be greater than maintaining the diversity and productivity of the ecosystem. The basis for the overall management plans for the sea areas was returned to St.meld. No 12 for 2001–2002, called Clean and Rich Seas. Based on the sectoral impact assessments, they should provide the basis for the establishment of protection areas and provide general guidelines for marine activities. The management plans highlight the issues that need to be addressed in order to ensure continued good co-existence, and the management plan shall contribute to a common understanding of the management of marine areas between business interests, local, regional and central authorities and environmental protection organisations and other interest groups. The aim of the management plans is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and goods in the Norwegian seas, while maintaining the structure, functioning and productivity of the ecosystem. Plans shall clarify the overall framework for existing and new activities in the sea area concerned, while at the same time facilitating the breadth and diversity of nutrient development. It is important to facilitate the coexistence of different industries, in particular fisheries, maritime transport and petroleum activities. The plans shall provide for the creation of value through sustainable use and exploitation of marine resources, while preserving the structure, functioning and productivity of the ecosystem. The need for a sound and cross-sectoral management system is reinforced by changes in the industrial structure of the marine areas. In summary, the management plans will contribute to the overall management of our marine areas. The preparation and treatment of the management plans for the Norwegian seas provide the basis for knowledge-based management and sustainable use. Under the government of Stoltenberg II, management plans were submitted for all the Norwegian sea areas. The size has always provided for rolling plans so that they are up-to-date and have an up-to-date knowledge base on which management is based. The Norwegian Sea Management Plan was submitted by St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009. It was through the processing of the notification by the Storting provided that the management plan was to be updated in 2014. The targets were to be met and the measures were intended to be reviewed and evaluated in 2014. It hasn't happened. The government has now announced that it will review its management plan for the Norwegian Sea only in 2025 – 16 years after the Stortinget has dealt with the first and eleven years after the Stortinget expected an update. It is then obvious to ask about the pace of government work on environmental and maritime management issues that has been drastically reduced. Is it going on a save-and-spare by day? In 2014, the scientific basis for updating the Norwegian Sea Management Plan was provided. It appears that several of the environmental objectives of the plan addressed by the Stortinget in 2009 have not been met. With regard to the protection of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, many objectives have not been achieved. Only in five of the 11 areas that are particularly valuable and require additional protection can the technical basis establish that the environmental objectives have been achieved. In 2009, when the Storting expected an update of the management plans in 2014, it was among other things. to look at the status of environmental objectives and assess new measures and, where appropriate, to reinforce those we already have. When the Council of State will not update the management plan now and not revise it until 2025, does this mean that it is satisfied with the situation and will not do anything to achieve the objectives? Since Stortinget examined the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2009, much new and relevant information has emerged on the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea. At the same time, Norway has taken on international political commitments to nature diversity. An impact assessment has been carried out with regard to petroleum activities around Jan Mayen, which made significant environmental values visible, especially in relation to vulnerable seabirds. In 2014, the Environment Directorate presented a report with up-to-date knowledge on marine pollution in Norwegian seas, as referred to, inter alia, effects on animal life and sources of microplastics in the sea. The ice edge north of Jan Mayen, with its existing management plan, does not have the same protection as the ice edge in the Barents Sea. Since 2009, we have received new and important information on the ice edge, including: from the Polar Institute. The species database has provided a list of species for both 2010 and 2015. Both rosaries tell of a serious negative development related to seabird. The Norwegian Sea is an important habitat for seabirds. Since its launch in 2009, Norway has signed the biodiversity objectives of the Aichi Biomangfold Convention and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, both of which form fundamental political commitments to the conservation of marine renewable resources in an environmentally sustainable manner. As I said, it was the Stoltenberg II Government that presented the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2009. I believe, of course, that the 2009 management plan was good, but that it was so good that it took into account the new impact assessment for Jan Mayen, new information on marine pollution and ice-cream, two red lists for species threatened with extinction, the natural diversity objectives of Aichi and the UN's sustainability objectives, we ourselves cannot, who thought that that plan was good, go well. It becomes obvious that the Council of State believes that the job Stoltenberg II did was so good that he does not need to bring anything new until 2025. Finally, let me address what concerns me most in this matter, and that is the role that management plans will play in the future. The Working Party believes that the overall management plans for marine areas are the most important lever for ecosystem-based management of marine areas. The management plans can be compared with the management of water and watercourses, which we manage under the EU Water Framework Directive. And the EU is something the Minister for Climate and Environment is concerned about – so maybe he can learn a little here. The EU Water Framework Directive requires the management plans to be revised every seven years in order to build on new knowledge and to be dynamic. Perhaps we should simply do the same with our maritime management plans, that they are updated every five years and revised every ten. When the Norwegian Government will not revise its management plan until 2025, does this mean that it believes that every 16 years is a natural cycle to ensure knowledge-based management? The nature diversity communication states that the management plans for the sea areas should be updated ‘if necessary’. Does the Council of State believe that this will create predictable governance for the commercial interests in question? I don't mean it. The management plans are the most important overall tool we have for the overall management of our seas, and the question I want to ask here today, and which I want to have debated, is simply: does the Council of State want to get away from this beautiful system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1637	The interpellant can enjoy a strong growing interest in the theme, given her starting comment. Coastal states have a clear obligation under the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to protect the environment in their marine areas. This is closely linked to the extensive rights of coastal States under the Convention on the Law of the Sea to exploit the living marine resources and other resources in areas under their jurisdiction. Norway provided the basis for a comprehensive marine environmental policy in 2002 through the treatment of the Marine Environment Communication by the Storting. One of the main interventions in the Communication was the establishment of comprehensive management plans for Norwegian sea areas. The aim of the management plans is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services in marine areas while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. The management plans are therefore a tool for both the organisation of value creation and the maintenance of environmental values in marine areas. The management plans contribute to the transparency of the overall framework, coordination and priorities in the management of marine areas. With this in mind, Norway has a policy tool for overall maritime governance and for the legitimacy of decisions on the balance between business interests and environmental concerns in our seas. Our large and resource-rich sea areas have essentially a good environmental status. This gives Norway a unique position to bet on blue growth. In addition to increased activity in already established marine industries, we will develop new sea-based industries. I think we're going to see a broader blue sector in the future. And in a Norway in transition, this becomes important. The government therefore places emphasis on this both in the maritime strategy, in the bioeconomy and in strengthening Norway’s green competitiveness. One of the three major government migration conferences this year will focus on the potential for blue growth. And if we're going to have blue growth, the marine natural values are the basis for the long-term use and the value creation from the sea. Future value creation based on the use of marine resources depends on good environmental status and a rich natural diversity in the sea. Maintaining the natural diversity and productivity of ecosystems is central to the preservation of marine natural values. Increased use of the sea places great demands on knowledge-based management. This is very important as a basis for marine industries — a well managed marine environment also provides a good resource base for these industries. Increased use of the sea must not impair nature values and the basis for long-term resource use and value creation. The management plans are therefore an important tool for blue growth based on marine values. A central part of the management plan system is the professional cooperation of the Advisory Groups the Monitoring Group and the Professional Forum, composed of Directorates and advisory bodies of the departments concerned. The Monitoring Group under the direction of the Institute for Marine Research and the Professional Forum under the direction of the Directorate for the Environment is working under the mandate of the Departments. The monitoring group and the Professional Forum constitute the professional follow-up system under the management plans. Within the groups, regular monitoring, assessment and reporting of the state of the environment and other relevant conditions are being cooperated. Professional forums also carry out specific investigations and missions where necessary, and are now developing an area tool for the production and compilation of map-based data. A flexible, data-based spatial tool could facilitate the updating and revision of the management plans. Norway now has management plans for all its seas. This is a concrete expression that Norway, as a coastal state, has both the capacity and the willingness to take responsibility for the major maritime areas we manage. The plans shall be periodically reviewed and updated as necessary. A full revision of the management plan for each marine area shall be based on a thorough professional assessment of nutrient development, foreground, monitoring results and other knowledge of long-term ecosystem changes. It has been proposed that the revision be carried out for each area every 15 years. The Government, as the Stortinget is well known, will promote a Communication to the Stortinget on the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan – Lofoten in 2020. Work on the professional basis of the revision starts in the current ageing period. It is also announced that it is aimed at revising the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2025 for the period up to 2040. The North Sea and Skagerrak management plan shall be revised by 2030 at the latest. The Government will update the management plans as necessary. An update is more limited than a revision and is linked to the need for an update of more defined issues, up-to-date knowledge or geographical areas. The updates contribute to ensuring appropriate management frameworks even in the time between the revisions of the management plans. The Barents Sea Management Plan — Lofoten was presented and discussed by the Stortinget in 2006. This plan was first updated in 2010 with particular emphasis on the description and assessment of marine areas outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and the Senja. The Government implemented a new update of this management plan in 2014 through the Message. Article 20 of the 2014-2015 Notice. In this update, the focus was on the northernmost part of the management plan area, where climate change appears to be the earliest. The majority of the population decided, as they know, to return this message to the government. The Norwegian Sea Management Plan was submitted in 2009. After an overall assessment, the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea was characterised as good. At the same time, a number of challenges were identified in the management of the Norwegian Sea, in particular related to the effects of climate change and marine acidification, the status of some fish stocks, the risk of acute contamination, the decline of seabird populations and the need for the conservation of coral areas. In several areas, the implementation of measures was adopted. It is true that in the notification and in the proceedings of the Stortingen in 2009 it was assumed that the management plan would be updated by 2014, etc. after five years, when a review of the land-based framework for petroleum activities in the Norwegian Sea was specifically mentioned. The technical basis for updating the management plan for the Norwegian Sea was published in a report by the Professional Forum in April 2015. This technical basis includes up-to-date knowledge of the state and influence of the environment, activity and value creation in the Norwegian Sea. The evidence shows that the main features of the state of the environment and the use of the Norwegian Sea have not changed significantly since 2009. The state of the environment is still good for the marine environment as such, while the challenges are essentially the same. The level of activity has not changed significantly. Further work is being carried out on the implementation of the measures adopted in the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, which have not been fully implemented. The Government considers, on this basis, that there is no need to update the Norwegian Sea Management Plan now. The government has thus not re-evaluated the framework for petroleum activities, but has taken into account the government’s political platform for 2013-2017 that no petroleum activities are being undertaken at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak or at Mørefelden. The government sees the management plans as an important policy tool. With increased activity in the existing and development of new sea-based industries, management plans will be central to facilitating blue growth. Current sectoral legislation underpins the regulation of activity. At the same time, management plans are a tool for maintaining the natural values and the long-term basis for resource use and value creation. Norway shall be a leading country in the overall and ecosystem-based management of marine areas. It is an objective to ensure a comprehensive management that takes care of natural diversity and provides a basis for the sustainable use of resources. Internationally, Norway has a leading role in developing knowledge and management of the environment and marine resources. The management plans have gained significant international recognition. A number of countries have now established a similar management of marine areas, including The EU through the Marine Strategy Directive and the Maritime Spatial Planning Directive. Climate change and increased activity in marine areas are constantly creating new challenges. The port of Norway has an interest in maintaining and further developing the role of a responsible manager of the sea. Let me therefore once again state that the government is continuing the system of overall management plans for the sea areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1690	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. The Council of State referred to the technical basis for updating the management plan. It was published in 2015, it was well, and then the then State Council Tine Sundtoft announced that she would come back to the Storting regarding an update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. I have to say that you have to wonder what has happened from what she said until now. In Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016 on natural diversity, which is currently being treated in Stortinget, mentions the state of the Norwegian Sea. They say, ‘A main conclusion from the technical report is that ‘The health assessment of the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea given in St.meld. No 37 was that the state of the environment was good. [[2008-2009]] It was noted that there were nevertheless significant challenges in the management of the Norwegian Sea, in particular related to the effects of climate change and marine acidification, the over-taxation of some fish stocks, the risk of acute contamination, the decline of seabird populations and the need for the conservation of coral areas.» At the same time, the government says in the same message: ‘The evidence shows that the main features of the state of the environment and the use of the Norwegian Sea have not changed significantly since the submission of the management plan in 2009. On this basis, the Government considers that there is no need to update the Norwegian Sea Management Plan at present.» It repeats the Council of State now, and I have to say that it is not in touch. On the one hand, you recognize that you have challenges, not least those that were expressed in connection with St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009, and they are still in force in 2014. And in order to use the government's own words from the big message about natural diversity: «The challenges are essentially the same». They also confirm this by drawing out areas from the last technical base, on problems surrounding acidic seas, seabirds, coral reefs and long-range pollution. So there's new knowledge in place, and we have challenges. However, the government does not see a revision until 2025, and you do not want an update now. Then you have to wonder: does the Council of State really think that this is enough? The government was able to provide an update of a management plan to move the ice edge, without a professional basis. Now you have a professional basis for the Norwegian Sea, but you don't choose to do anything. The government is aware that we have challenges, but sit quietly in the boat, and I would like to have an explanation of why the government and the government have such a delicate relationship with the management plan regime – because you have to wonder why nothing is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1713	I concluded my previous post that the government will continue the system of management plans for the sea areas, and I did so on the basis of great ambitions to develop and exploit the sea areas for blue growth in a Norway in transition. From this point of view, protection and responsible management are essential. What we are doing now to review the Barents Sea Management Plan – the 2020 Lofoten – will be a milestone. This is the first time a management plan is revised, and there will be extensive and thorough professional work. Thus, the type of revision of the management plans will take place approximately every fifteen years after today’s system, and that is why – in line with what the inter-pellant said – we have announced that it will be aimed at revising the management plan for the Norwegian Sea in 2025. The current system of the management plans does not involve a system as defined when updating the management plans as it does when revising them. The purpose of the updates is to ensure appropriate management frameworks, including between revisions. It is therefore necessary to assess whether there is a need to promote a notification to the Storting for that purpose. Based on the scientific basis we have for the Norwegian Sea now, we say in the nature diversity message: ‘In 2014, it is seen that the state of the environment is still good for the marine environment as such, but the challenges are essentially the same. It is difficult to see the major changes in such a short time perspective [[2009-2014]] And we're also saying, «On this basis, the Government considers that there is no need to update the Norwegian Sea Management Plan at present.» The nature diversity message is now being addressed in Stortinget, on the basis of a subject base which thus shows that the environmental status is essentially the same, that the challenges are the same, and that the level of activity is relatively unchanged. So we believe that there is no need for such an update now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1734	A little over a year ago, Tine Sundtoft had to answer the same questions that Vidar Helgesen does, then in an interpellation from Terje Aasland. The Labour Party and the other opposition parties were also concerned about the government's work on management plans. She said, ‘Let me state immediately that the Government will continue the management plans for the sea areas as policy tools.’ This was also confirmed by our new climate minister, but in action something quite different does. This government has not followed up properly on the work of management plans. Before the summer of last year, Stortinget rejected the government's poor craftsmanship in the processing of ice. The breakdown of the management plan provided by the government was not accepted. As the only big message in years, it was sent back to the government. It is good that the Minister now confirms that work on the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan – Lofoten is in progress, he even called it a milestone. But then it should be remembered that it adopted the Stortinget against the Right and the vote of the Advancement Party. The management plans are our main means of managing our seas in a sustainable and safe way. All human activity shall be managed in a wider context. We must be sure that the activity we have does not destroy nature and the unique ecosystems of the sea. We shall be proud of this work. The climate minister himself comes straight from the U.D., and I believe that in meeting his former colleagues he has been asked about and boasted of the management plans, because this system is a Norwegian export product. We have at any time the best available knowledge of what we humans can do about activity. This is one of the most important tools of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. It is therefore surprising and alarming that both Tine Sundtoft and Vidar Helgesen will not use this tool. And after hearing the intervention from the minister, I just don't understand why, because he really gave a lot of good reasons why it's important to keep updating the management plans. He talked about how the sea is changing, and that many of the sea's qualities are threatened. The professional basis was clear last year. Where former ministers have done what they can to get attention to it, this government has put it right in a drawer. We find on page 108 of the nature diversity report that the government writes that there is no need for an update of the management plans, and refers to the revision in 2025. This is not doing what Stortinget has said. I can read from the Committee's 2009 comment, which was supported by an overall committee: ‘The Committee has noted that the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is good and that the most well-known valuable and vulnerable areas are identified in the management plan. However, there is a significant need for knowledge related to more precise information on environmental values such as coral reefs and other natural diversity on the seabed in the Norwegian Sea. To this end, the Committee welcomes the commitment to knowledge acquisition and mapping and uses this as a basis for its support for the management plan. Furthermore, the Committee took note of the fact that the management plan should be rolling and updated regularly for the first time not later than 2014.’ Don't the government parties mean this anymore? Do they now feel that there is no longer a need for information about coral reefs or other natural diversity on the seabed in the Norwegian Sea? Does the Minister really think that we have enough information about this today? Sometimes we say that Norway is a small country in the world. But we're really not, because if we add up land, sea and base, we're among the 15 largest countries in the world. We're a port. It literally gives us a sea of possibilities. We are going to use them, but they have to be used within sound limits, because our marine areas give us a great deal of responsibility. The oceans are global. We manage them on behalf of all of us and on behalf of future generations. The gardens are changing, including our own. Loss of biodiversity, temperature rise, pollution, sea level rise and climate change emissions – these are all good arguments for Norway to continue the work we have done on management plans. The Prime Minister has said in the past that it has been difficult to be Minister for Climate and Environment in a government where not everyone is so concerned. And when we look at the amount of things that Tine Sundtoft and Vidar Helgesen have produced, we realize that they have a difficult job of getting an impact on the environment's best in government. But that they can't even use their own tools, I think it's surprising and sad. Then I notice that there is currently no one from the government parties on the list of speakers. I would be excited to hear what the Right Party and the Advance Party have to say. But I see that all the other parties are on the list of speakers. I especially look forward to hearing the speeches from the Left and Christian People's Party, because I doubt that they are satisfied with how the climate minister is dealing with this issue, and it may seem that the majority of the population have to make a decision against the will of the government parties. Then the minister can come back and call it the decision 'a milestone'.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1768	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic about and in an important area for our country. The Declaration of Cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties states that the government will not open up petroleum activities at Jan Mayen and the ice edge. When the Christian People's Party negotiated the declarations of cooperation, we had updates of the management plan for the Norwegian Sea in mind. It was in connection with this management plan that we had to state that Jan Mayen was not to be opened up to oil companies, and that the edge of the ice in the area called the Vesteris was to be secured. If the government actually chooses not to submit a management plan for the Norwegian Sea, the policy of the cooperation declaration will not be delineated. The government's procedure in this matter surprises me. That being said, last year the government issued a big message about the ice edge, which the committee, after a thorough process, decided to send back to the government, because it was not completely and ecosystem-based updated by a management plan. For the majority, it is important that the revision or update of the management plans can be carried out only on a technical basis submitted to the Professional Forum and after this has been sent to the public hearing. The government now has a technical basis for updating the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, drawn up by the Professional Forum, which has been at public consultation. In this situation, therefore, the government does not choose to provide an update of the management plan. Does the Council of State feel that it strengthens the management plans that in 2015 the government provided an update of a management plan without a technical basis, and when in 2016 one chooses not to submit a management plan when a technical basis has been established? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1781	I think we all agree that the system of management plans is a good and sensible system. It is also a system – which was also in the presence of the August representative – that other countries look to Norway for adoption. It is also an important part of the responsibility we have as a coastal state. The government has also said that quite clearly in previous contexts. It was said that this with management plans and the system contributes to clarity in the framework. It contributes to coordination and priorities, and it also shows our ability as a coastal state to manage our seas in a good way. But if we are to have such a system, we need to have the opportunity to have a review of issues related to the various sea areas more often than every 15 years. There does not have to be a revolution or a revolutionary innovation to be put in place either, but in addition to the professional, thorough and ongoing work being done, the National Assembly and the political parties must also have the opportunity to review the status of our marine areas. That is really what this debate is about. It's good that the Council of State says they're maintaining the system. It is also good that he says that he explains how the audit system is – that is, when one has to review the individual. But it is very long to wait if you do not want to update a plan from 2009 until 2025. Political parties must also be allowed to be part of the necessary and ongoing work on the management plans. National Parliaments must also be taken seriously in such a matter. This should not become merely a professional question and should not be anchored in the national Parliament. We don't have to get an update with the big, revolutionary changes, but we might have to reflect on what's changing in the ocean, what's the status of the Norwegian Sea, and what's extra attention to. I think the majority of the population would have appreciated having the opportunity to have such a debate more regularly than the government has provided, especially because one here has a subject base that you did not have when the government presented its proposal on the ice. It must not be the case that changing governments, in order to avoid any awkward rounds and political debate, do not choose to update a management plan that we see as a long-term instrument in our responsibility as a coastal state. It can be said that it is important for any other government that has to come and that is going to sit for the next 10-20 years. But any government should really be clear that the Storting deserves to have a debate and be part of the important role of managing our seas. It is the Stortinge that has initiated the issue of administrative areas and adopted it. It's too long to wait until 2025 before a national assembly is involved in a debate on updating a sea area, sail if there's not a little bit of negative actually. There are other things about the environmental status of the Norwegian Sea that are worth discussing also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1794	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for raising an important question, and I do well to see this debate as a little early debate in relation to the one that the Committee will later have on the Nature Diversity Act, which comes to Stortinget to spring. I was also going to start where the representative Arnstad started, because the positive thing here is that you have a co-ordinated increase that sees the importance of the management plans, and that the management tool is to control the policy towards the Norwegian seas. And now we have the management plans for all the Norwegian seas. What this really shows, and as this discussion also shows, is how the Storting, how we are going to have the system of these management plans and the upgrade of them after their adoption. I also agree with the representative Arnstad that if we look at 15 years of cycles, there are two things: firstly, things happen – although this is not the big change in the management plan, then clearly things happen in a 15-year period that make it right to look at the management plan again in order to get an update on the achievement of the objectives in relation to the decisions taken earlier, because political decisions can be taken. It was pointed out in the past that we have a cooperation agreement between the four parties on the civil side, where this, with the preservation of Jan Mayen from petroleum activity, is a central part, which also needs to be followed up in the practical policy, or there may be new themes that were not a major theme in 2009, such as this with marine pollution, which should also be included in a management plan. But then it's the last one, which was also taken up by Arnstad, which is about when it's really natural that the Storting should be taken back and get a new update of a management plan. If one goes for 15 years, then there's three to four grand in between each time one has this for treatment in the Storting, and we have to have a system that makes the Storting more involved than just every 15 years. So I see it so that in this case it's about here that the Storting could make an important decision for the spring, so that we get a clarification of how often the Storting believes it is necessary to have an audit, so that one has a clearer decision about how often you need an update. I believe, at least from the left, that it strengthens the work of management plans if we get this clear. We need to know that we get regular updates, just like we need to know that we get a review on a regular basis. It gives predictability to the political process, it gives predictability to all those who are interested in the management plans, and it definitely also gives greater predictability to the business community and the economic development that we are going to have. It is not the size of the change to be made in an update or in an audit that is essential to whether it is needed to reach the Stortinget or not. On the contrary, a good management plan should be so good that it can last over time, but it will nevertheless be necessary to have regular adjustments, and it will always be necessary to have the professional assessment and the professional basis on which the Storting will take its decision. So I look forward to this discussion and look forward to how it will be brought forward towards the spring for the treatment of the natural diversity law. I think it would be right for the committee to determine not only how often it should be a revision of the management plans, but also how often we should have an update.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1811	It is a pity that representatives of the government parties do not take the floor. Of course, the Council of State does, and he definitely belongs to one of the government parties, but it's a shame that we don't get the broad debate that's really necessary to give the Council of State a good basis for thinking through this towards the treatment we're going to have of the nature diversity message. We had a hearing on it today, and there are clear concerns from organisations about the uncertainty created around the management plan regime. I would like the Council of State to note what everyone – except the Council of State itself – who has taken the floor today, says, that we want to have a more regular update, and we want to engage in a dialogue and establish clearer guidelines, guidance on how often the management plans are to be revised, and how often they are to be updated. Now it is such that they are updated as necessary. I don't think that's good enough. We need to have a discussion about what needs are strong enough to update them, once we have received, as we have now, a full review from the professional council, which has been consulted, and which makes a firm determination, among other things. that several of the environmental objectives that we have set ourselves for the Norwegian Sea have not been achieved. In addition to that, the Council of State says that we are moving forward and implementing the same measures that we have had. I don't want to be happy with it as a big representative. If we have jointly set some environmental objectives for areas covered by the management plan, where we do not see the improvement that we want to see, we should have this presented to us and have a new round in Stortinget to see what we should do to increase our efforts to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. It would be natural to take in such an update. There is a lot of work to be done to create such an update. Then it cannot be that it is surprising for Stortinget that we do not get an update, when a full professional round of this has been carried out. I would believe that the Council of State was interested in taking up the legacy of Børge Burnde, because the entire management plan regime is in many ways the legacy of Børge Burnde, taking this up in a proper way, engaging in dialogue with the Storting and with those who have expressed concern that these things are being pushed on, and agreeing on a set of frameworks for how often we are going to update the management plans, how often we are going to have a full revision. My starting point – and I can say that now – in this debate is that we should have a full review every ten years, not every fifteen years or sixteen years, to which one of them is charged. We should have a regular update every five years. I hope that this is something we can talk about with the parties in the committee and agree on a set of driving rules. The representative, Marit Arnstad, was into it, Ola Elvestuen, as well, that it is an advantage for a changing majority to know that either you are in position or in opposition, you get an update of the management plans every five years and a full revision every ten years, which is what I want – or if we land on something else. I also notice what the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide of the Christian People's Party mentioned, namely that the Declaration of Cooperation states very clearly that the government will not open up petroleum activities at Jan Mayen and the ice edge. It's one of those things that it's quite natural to fall into a government document, which is anchored in the Storting. I am convinced that there is something that will get broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1822	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. Like several, I think it is a little regrettable that none of the representatives of the government parties thought it was worth participating in this debate today. But now we just have to live with that, and then you just have to realize that the government sees no need to update the management plan for the Norwegian Sea now, and that you want to wait a very long time before a revision – despite the fact that we actually have some new knowledge. We know a lot about the situation in the Norwegian Sea, about how it is. We know that we have an edge of ice without protection from oil activity. We experience that our coral reefs are being destroyed. We know that we have seabirds that are vulnerable out in the ocean, and that need protection. We have the loon bird, which I would like to imagine having a discussion around. We have discussions about oil protection preparedness, which should have been taken regularly, and not least about marine pollution. It was hardly mentioned in the communication addressed in the Stortingen in 2009 and is the new challenge we have. But I'm only allowed to take note that the government doesn't want to discuss this with the Stortinget. I want to thank the representative Marit Arnstad for a very good post. She says it very well: do we have to wait in Stortinget every 15 years before we get the opportunity to discuss how it is in an important sea area before we get a revision? Because it doesn't seem like the government is particularly eager to update. This should happen as necessary, but according to what the Council of State says today, it seems that a disaster has to happen about – or a very big change – in order for it to be worth discussing these issues in the Storting. I'd like to discuss oil protection, coral reefs, seabirds and marine littering, because it's a little too bad, as the representative Elvesuen says, that you have to sit on the Storting to get the opportunity to discuss these challenges. It's the rarest nonsense to be allowed to sit for four periods. It's probably just today's president and a few others who have the joy of being able to sit on the Stortinget for so long. Several of us ordinary mortals aren't allowed to sit that long, but we also want to be with and discuss these important questions. It means something about how we manage our marine areas, it means something about how we develop business interests, and how we develop not least the petroleum business. So I think it's a little strange that the Council of State doesn't want to update the management plan and wait a very long time for a revision. But I want to warn the Council of State from today's debate: if I had been to him, I would have started to think about it, because it seems from the debate that there might be someone here who might think of adopting something in the Storting when we deal with the nature diversity message. I would have just begun to prepare, for I believe that the will of the Storting is quite strong in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1832	I've never been a cook, but I'll always be prepared. I will be allowed to thank the inter-pellant and other representatives for a good debate on a good and important system, a system that the government is continuing because the management plans are a flexible policy tool in that the overall management of the sea areas can be renewed through updates and revisions of the plans based on new and up-to-date knowledge within an overall framework. It is also the case, as the representative of Aukust said, that this is an export product, and it is quite correct that in my previous work in discussions with the European Union I have also discussed and been not so proud of this system, which, as others pointed out, was designed under a Council of the Right. I just want to tell the representative, August, that getting a technical basis is, of course, using the system. There is a follow-up system under the management plans with regular monitoring, assessment and reporting of the state of the environment and other relevant conditions. It is done through the monitoring group and the Professional Forum. This trade union work is a continuous process. We also get knowledge through the Mariano monitoring program, so we don't lack knowledge. Now, knowledge tells us that there have not been significant changes in the state of the environment, in challenges or in activity, and it means, in our opinion, that there is no need to create a new update of the management plan. So we have reported this back to Stortinget in the nature diversity report, based on the subject base. However, I note the desire of several on more frequent landfill treatment, although the information has not changed significantly. Let me also say that something that can continue to speak for the update of the management plan is if new activities that enter the sea areas by re-emphasizing blue growth get a certain amount, for example. the emergence of new industries such as offshore farming, algae cultivation, renewable energy production or mineral extraction on the seabed. But we're not there now. What might also give rise to updates will be whether we will gain new knowledge in the years to come about the effects on the marine environment of, for example, climate change and marine acidification. Let me once again thank you for a good debate on an important topic — and an important and good management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1847	That being the case, it is no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1853	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e1988	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-07.ana.ud1935e2083	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
