ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e105	The following called alternates are now taking their seat. For Buskerud County: Christopher Wand For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen There is a request for a permit from the Advance Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen from 6 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e144	Torkil Åmland is present and will take the seat. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e151	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the reform of development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e156	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President has reason to believe that there will be a postponement proposal on case No. 1, and I ask that the representatives be seated. Then we save time in relation to having to call in to vote. We'll see what's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e176	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Arild Grande has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e187	I refer to Section 41 of the Storting Rules of Procedure and ask that the matter be postponed pending appropriate explanations from the relevant state councils responsible for preparedness. We are aware that the Progress Party, which is in government and has been responsible for the implementation of this matter, intends to promote a loose proposal in the debate on stopping the whole process and using the emergency situation as an argument. Until we have been clarified by the relevant state councils – the Minister for Transport, who is responsible for road safety, the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for safety along the coast, and the Minister for Justice, who is responsible for preparedness in Norway – we ask that Stortinget postpone the implementation of the debate and the handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e192	So let's open up for a round.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e197	The centre party is prepared to deal with the matter today, but it is prepared that has been the argument that we have made about postponing extinguishment, and therefore the centre party can support the postponement of the case pending investigations and briefings from the relevant state councils on the preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e202	This is still taking new and unexpected directions. The working party has waved a little back and forth and created a lot of uncertainty, but at the latest last night they announced a great deal of agreement to go for an SV proposal that has been submitted in this matter. I wonder what's new from last night to today that would create uncertainty about the preparedness regarding the transition to DAB. We have received all sorts of confirmations on the table that it works, most recently from the DSB, which presented a report last week that shows that it works, and that a postponement will not affect this positively. In addition, I think the basis is wrong, because there has been a little back and forth about the proposals of the Progress Party, but I have not captured that they will stop DAB. They've said they won't turn off the FM, and it's something else. This means that you have to have both DAB and FM, and it has to be even better. I have respect for the fact that someone thinks there is some unfair proposal in the matter, but I do not see that there may be any basis for postponing the case. A lot of people depend on a decision. The date of closure in the first area is 11 January to 11 January. It's about as many days after New Year as it is until Christmas, and this is what many people are involved in and work with. We should take that into account in this Chamber as well. We see no reason to delay the handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e209	I have to say for my part and for the Christian People's Party that we think it is very unfortunate that one of the government parties has created so much uncertainty about something as important as readiness along our roads and along our coasts, and that you can act completely independently of what the government itself is presenting. Playing on standby is a very serious matter for a nation. I believe that if it is possible to get the responsible state councils to come to the Storting quickly with a statement as to whether the Progress Party is right in its concerns or not, it is not certain that we need to change on dates. Then it may be that the closure of the FM network can still start from 11 January in the Nordic region. But I want an answer as to how quickly the government can deliver what the Labour Party is now considering. In that case, we will support the Workers' Party's proposal to convene the responsible state councils to come and explain the preparedness for the closure of the FM network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e216	It's true, as the representative Harberg said, that this case is still taking new and special turns. One of the government parties responsible for implementing a 16-year-old-old closure of the FM network – because I think DAB was signed in the first round – is now making a loose proposal in the Stortinget that it should be postponed. This gives them reason to believe that there are major preparedness challenges. It may be that they just want to try to tone some voters on it, and then get it down, but it might also be that they think they're sitting on other information about the readiness than the one we have available through public sources. If the last one is the case, it actually doesn't apply. A government party is also responsible for preparedness here in the Stortinges Hall, and has to take the responsibility when we are going through a technology shift that will open up to significant noise. I believe that we should deal with the matter today – it has enough root, we should get it out – but that the Progress Party must now go to the pulpit in the Stortinget, warn them not to make a loose proposal, or to draw such a loose proposal, and not to expose the Minister of Culture to the problems it presents, not to expose the Stortinge to this mess, and to let the process go. If the Progress Party wants to do so, I thought we could handle the matter properly today. If it is the case that the government is divided into the vision of preparedness a few weeks before it is to be implemented, it is in my view right to do as the Labour Party suggests. It is then necessary that we get that out quickly – that is, over the next few days – so that we can get a clarification in the Stortinget that all government councils responsible are in favour of the readiness to be well preserved, and that we can implement the closure as planned, for the benefit of both the users of the radio and the emergency services in Norway. So I ask the Progress Party to clarify whether they can withdraw the proposal and stand behind their own government. If not, SV will support the workers' party proposal in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e229	This is a matter that the Progress Party has been standing by since 2011. The current government is clearly following a 2011 decision, which has been taken by the majority in this Chamber. So to the Workers' Party's proposal to postpone this. Everyone in this room gets signals from all over Norway. All politicians get signals from other politicians. There have even been decisions in county councils and municipalities around the country to ask for a postponement because it is just unclear about the security and coverage around the country. I would recommend the Progress Party Group to go for a postponement, so we get this clear from the current state councils, both in terms of security and coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e238	After that article, it is difficult to accept a postponement. The left will also support it, although – and I would stress it – it is important that there is no postponement that trains the case itself. It's an important thing, and it's an apparatus that's going on, so we don't have to start the big uncertainty now. Having a preparedness process is absolutely right to do so. It is necessarily about how the development of the DAB network becomes, because it is a decision from the Stortinget from the past. I think I want to stress what others have also said, that there will be a postponement, but that this happens as soon as possible, so that the Storting gets clarity and makes its decision, as we need, so that we do not get a completely unnecessary training of the matter itself with uncertainty about the transition. I would ask that it be done as quickly as possible by the presidency and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e245	Of course, the government will provide the information that Storting might want. I would like to remind you that the red-green government in 2011 came to Stortinget with a desire to shut down the FM network and introduce a DAB network and DAB technology when all the criteria set by Stortinget were met. The criteria were more digital added value, better coverage, more listeners on digital platforms and good technical solutions for cars. The Government decided in 2014, following necessary investigations into the emergency situation, that it was ready to shut down the FM network because all the criteria were met. It was supposed to happen on 1 January, and Norwegian consumers and radio listeners have opted for it. That's why seven out of ten radio listeners bought DAB radio at home, and so broadcasters have invested a lot of money in transition to DAB. A postponement that means we have to have parallel networks will cost about 200 million. kr annually until 2019, then the cost will increase significantly. I just want to remind the assembly that this cost will be imposed by the National Assembly on the broadcasters, and that after we have asked them to make large investments in a new technology. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness presented a report on Friday in which they concluded that postponing the introduction of DAB for a few months does not help with preparedness or preparedness. DSB does not ask the government to put this on ice. The DSB submitted this report after examining the emergency situation. Two reports from the National Communications Authority now show that the coverage is 99,7 pst. The party of progress in government has been quite clear that it is right to shut down the FM network and now implement the DAB technology, not only because the broadcasters have invested what they have done, but also because this magnification has alerted consumers that we are doing this technology change, and have asked them to prepare for this to be implemented from 1 January. The fact that the Progress Party on Stortinget chooses to do as they do, I cannot answer for it. I just want to inform you that the government of the constitutionally responsible state council will explain this matter if the Storting wants it, and of course in a short time. I had initially wanted to give the government support to the proposal that was made by SV – I think it is very good – that the government follows the FM shutdown closely and reports back to Stortinget on the way about how this goes when we start in Nordland on 1 January. I think it is a pity that the Stortinget is not prepared to take this decision that has now been adopted for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e261	There's more on the list of speakers. The President will stress that we are now discussing the postponement proposal and not the matter, and that we must confine ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e266	I hear that there are different arguments that emerge along the way. Some are good, and some are less good. But it was a matter of a quick being able to get these state councils in place. Yes, had it been given a signal about this earlier, one could have examined it and responded to it in the hall today. But when you get a seven-eight minutes notice before the meeting starts, it is therefore impossible to answer it. I don't know if these councils are in the country the next few days, or what it's like, but it's clear that if the council now postpones the case on the grounds that they want answers from some councillors, a follow-up will follow. It is also especially if the Storing, which determines what the government is going to do, has to ask for confirmation from state councils that they will follow the majority of the Storing. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e273	There are some who are trying to present it as if it doesn't matter if a government party believes anything in government and something else in the Stortinget. Now it matters. And let me underline from the Workers' Party's side: we are not asking for a postponement of the date of 11 January. But it is long until 11 January. A few days ago, Stortinget prepared to work long this year. So that was not the case, because there was a settlement on the budget. What we're saying is that it's irresponsible for the Storting to go right on such a decision when the spokesperson of the Progress Party here in the Chamber says he supports the fact that we're hearing the relevant state councils. Then there was doubt as to whether the government is at the back of the disciplines that people are going to be occupied with. Nordland's first out. The questions are, are they safe on the roads? It's interesting to hear the Minister of Transport. Is it safe for the fishermen? It's interesting to hear the Minister of Fisheries. Is it safe for you to get ready? It's interesting to hear the Minister of Justice. All three state councils are FrP councils. So let me underline again: the working party is to keep the progress plan. It is invested in it, and should it come to an exceedance – the Minister of Culture is concerned about 200 million. kr – it is the full and full responsibility of the government that they have come into this situation. The entry from the representative of the Progress Party gives you reason for doubt in Stortinget. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Solhjell, that this is an important decision, which must be made on a good basis, and that is why there is now uncertainty about the government parties, and the day after we got it illustrated around the budget. So the first thing we get is the next day, and that's absolutely the reason why we get the clarifying answers. Let me also say that these state councils may be abroad, but there is also a great opportunity for them to be in Norway. There are different ways to communicate with Stortinget. It can also happen in the form of letters. But now there is some doubt as to whether three important emergency ministers are actually in a position to ensure that this is safe. That doubt has to be cleared aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e284	When it comes to getting government councils to the Storting, I think the president may admit that we'll be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e289	We promoted the representative proposal 10 S for 2016-2017, which is the basis for the case being raised today, precisely because of the concern that has been surrounding the preparedness and coverage of DAB. We have seen what the Swedish National Audit Office has written about DAB and preparedness in Sweden, where they have been very critical of the DAB project on the Swedish side, and we have seen the reactions that have now come from both the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the fishing industry and various parts of the transport sector. Our whole point as we advanced the matter is that we have to be safe when we're going to do something like that, because it's a big and important decision. When the Government Party of the Progressive Party, which has the Minister of Justice, now supports such a postponement proposal, and they also argue that there is uncertainty about preparedness, I think it is important that the Stortinge spends the necessary time. We also included money in our alternative proposal to the state budget yesterday because we thought it was too much uncertainty. So now we get an average of a postponement, in order to go into the matter more thoroughly, and that's our point, so we don't rush through, but we know what we're actually doing. I am pleased that one of us is now supporting the proposal we originally made, so to speak, a total accumulation – except for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e296	I just want to remind you that the Minister of Justice has a coordinating responsibility in the government. It is such that each State Council has the constitutional responsibility for the preparedness of its portfolio. I am the responsible State Council and the Constitutional Council for this matter, which also have responsibility for this matter. On the basis of the report presented by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness on Friday, I am ready to answer the questions the Stortinget might have about the preparedness today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e301	So there are two things that are being discussed at the same time here. It is the matter that should be discussed, if necessary, and that is the process. It's the way the government doesn't know parties – and here's the big confusion in the hall – the representatives are the sovereigns. That's how it works, it's in the Constitution, and that's the Constitution you're dealing with. So those who mix what the government does, and what the parties do, they misunderstand the Constitution, and they want to misunderstand the Constitution. Now I follow our case handler here, Ib Thomsen, but I want to clarify – and that will happen in the future – that it is actually this hall that determines what the government is going to do. Those who talk about the process are wrong. Those who talk about matters are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e308	I think the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was a little eager when he collected the whole Stortinget behind his proposal, because it was a proposal to postpone the discussion of the proposal we discussed. On the SV side, I would like to make it clear that what we want is to implement as planned, but quickly to get government councils responsible for the preparedness of the Stortinget to do something about it, before we can decide on the Central Party’s proposal – and hopefully implement it as planned. But I don't think we need more rounds of this right now. It seems that there is a large number of people in the room to do what was mentioned in the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e315	What the president has not brought with him is what the Christian People's Party will conclude with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e320	I believe that the Christian People's Party was very clear in its contribution. I said that as long as there is now a doubt of one of the government parties about what has to do with security and preparedness, along our roads and along our coast, we support the Workers' Party in asking the government councils responsible for readiness to come to the Stortinget and reassure the Storting that the Progress Party is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e325	It's okay. Then we take the postponement proposal from the Workers' Party up to voting. The postponement proposal is supported, as far as the President is concerned, by the Central Party, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, while the Right wants us to deal with the matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e333	And by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e338	And by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e343	That is the Labour Party’s proposal – but also the SV supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e348	President! I don't know if they're going to count up. I know that I have too many in the hall, and the parties may have different votes in terms of the distribution of votes between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e353	Let's do a number one vote right now, and then we're done with it. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e365	The examination of case No. 1 is thus exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e382	Sport plays an important preventive role in society and offers many children and young people opportunities to develop their skills and talents. The report on youth participation and training in Oslo, based on responses from 24,000 high school and high school students, reports that a total of 82pst. at any time is a member of a sports team. This proportion has increased by 14–15 pst. in the last 20 years. In many ways, sport has become the dominant and largest recreational activity. But the differences are big. It's just 20 pst. by minority girls participating in sport. In the ‘bottom’ social teams, the share that participates in sport is only 28 pst. Among families who have less than 400000 kroner in income, the total corresponds to 78 pst. that they have chosen not to introduce sports to their children. Every third of all families who have children under the age of 18 who do sports say that they have chosen not to introduce certain sports to their children because it becomes too expensive. I have to say that I experience this in close proximity, as active in a sports team in Groruddalen – which primarily operates football – and in contact with other clubs in the area, especially on the eastern edge of Oslo. Every season, we have had 50-100 young players in our club who, based on the family's economy, have real reasons not to pay the quota, training fees and other expenses. We know that there are many people who don't start with football at all, or start with other sports, because it gets too expensive. We're doing everything we can to make sure that no one has to stop, while we have to make sure that the club doesn't go bankrupt. We seek support from the city to help the poorest, and we keep the training fees at a minimum level. But it also goes beyond our ability to establish good and attractive offers, which make children and young people want to bet on football. For example, we can't afford to put underheat on the artificial grass tracks and heat them up over the winter. It makes many fall away, because they think of other things in the winter. It is no longer the case that children and young people play football in the summer and go skiing and skating in the winter, at least not all children and young people. For those who want to evolve, football is a year-round sport. It is important that we make arrangements for this also in areas where there are many with low incomes and weaker family economies. Otherwise in society we would say that it's extra important to build good deals here, so that everyone can participate and we can prevent better, but in football I would say that it actually works the other way around. Those who can afford underheating and the best facilities are preferably the clubs that live in areas where higher training fees can be charged and where there are many sponsors and gifts available to the club. There are 14 underheated lanes in Oslo, for example, and until now none of them are located in the Grorud Valley or on Søndre Nordstrand, which are immigrant areas and which have up to 200,000 inhabitants, many with low incomes. Only next year will the first track of underheating be able to be used in the Grorud Valley, on the Jesperud Earth there. I admire all the clubs that have such fine facilities – with underheating, football halls, etc. Every one of them. But when we look at the low participation in low income areas, where there is the worst facility, the question becomes how we can distribute better, or also give these clubs and players, the youth, better opportunities. The largest direct contribution made by the State to sport is the VAT compensation. Under this scheme, 455 million were paid. kr to sport in 2015 for the financial year 2014. Of these, 355 million went. kr to local clubs and special circles. When you read the 48 pages of Excel sheets about who gets money from this scheme – which applies to both operations and investments – it is striking that it goes most to those who have the most from before. It's not that strange either, because it's those who have the most money to invest and revenue into a large operating budget that could get the most compensation. 50 golf clubs dominate among those who receive the largest transfers – from the Oslo Golf Club 1.5 million. kr to Losby Golf Club 959 000 kr and Haga Golf Club 952 000 kr etc. – while important sports teams for children and young people in areas with lower incomes are consistently at a much lower level in terms of VAT compensation. For example, Rommen Sportklubb at Stovner in Groruddalen get NOK 48 000, Linderud Sports team in Groruddalen gets NOK 64 000, Ellingsrud Sports team gets NOK 86 000 – among clubs I know well. The only sports teams that compete with the golf clubs – and a few beat them when it comes to transfers from the VAT compensation – are those that live in more resource-intensive areas. Heming on Slemdal gets 2 million. kr, The Bekkelag on Nordstrand, with Norway Cup, 2.98 million. kr, Lyn will add up to 1.26 million. SEK and Oslo Sail Association will receive SEK 1.2 million. kr – in addition to the top series club Vålerenga, which receives 1.4 million. kr. I would still say that the VAT compensation means a lot of positive for sport, but it does the opposite of creating a fairer distribution. There's good reason to go through how these 455 million. kr may be used in such a way that they contribute more to providing equal opportunities for all and equally good facilities and offers. It is clear that if clubs in areas with many low income groups could build better facilities and improve their offer without increasing training fees too much, and without having to rely on large sponsors they do not find, participation among children and young people could increase sharply here. The same problem applies to some extent to another scheme we have introduced, the grass root fraction from Norwegian Typing, although it also has the positive side that it involves the mobilisation of many trailers. So it's going to be 500 million. kr on an annual basis for voluntary organisations, sport and culture and SEK 145 million. kr i 1st tertiary. Among the 20 who got the most in the 1st tertiary and who are sports teams, there are mostly top-series clubs, with VIF – Vålerenga – at the top, with 1 million. kr. For comparison, important clubs in low-income areas, such as: Furoset Football, with 400 children and young people – mostly – as active members, DKK 7 600 through this scheme, i.e. 142 times less to Furoset Football than to Vålerenga Football. I love the VIF, all other elite series teams and others who get good money from the grass root, each crown, but also this scheme does not contribute to better distribution to those who have at least within the sport and who have fewer resources to mobilise, for example. in the case of the grass root fraction. It will mean a lot for prevention and for society as a whole if we can manage to adjust the guidelines for the means that come from the state, so that they can contribute to a fairer distribution, and so that we can provide more equal offers to everyone. We at Stortinget should focus most on discussing the arrangements with which we have governance. But when we take this discussion and want to do more, it is also important that sport and football – as I know best – do their best. They have strict rules on how to avoid losers in football, including: rules for not counting goals or points or winning series or Cups up to the age of 13. But there are no rules to prevent anyone from experiencing the greatest and worst defeat, namely not being able to afford to join because of the family's economy. As a result, there may be very large differences in the types of offer offered by the clubs, in addition to normal training, which include training fees and quotas. There may be football academy, various football schools, expensive Cups to attend, training camps, travel abroad – besides equipment. We have seen that in some clubs it is worth NOK 20 000 – and it has been mentioned up to NOK 40 000 – in annual expenses for players, children and young people, who participate in the clubs that have the widest offer. This can cause serious problems with the economy of families in those areas. The offers are probably good, but we have to give them to more, and they have to be funded in a different way, so that everyone can have equal opportunities to develop their talents. It will be important to consider how the key elements of the Norwegian Football Association and other parts of sport can contribute with us – together with everyone else – in order to create equivalent offers. They must then, among other things: also look at their management salaries, which I can't get any further into right now. I'm curious about what the Council of State will say about how we can achieve a better distribution of sports, and that we need to look in particular at what we have here at Stortinget's ability to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e415	I would like to thank the representative Jan Bøhler for addressing this issue and giving us the opportunity to discuss the costs of sport. I share the representative's concern that high costs are involved in excluding children and young people from sport. It shall not be such that only those with expensive skis during the Christmas tree this year shall have the opportunity to participate in the long run in winter. That's why I want to fight differences in sport that make kids and youth have to stay home. Norwegian sports are doing a lot of good, but I think we can still get better. We have to work continuously to ensure that sport and physical activity are for everyone, regardless of family economics, residence and social status. That was also the starting point that, just after I started as a sports minister, I took the initiative to look at how we can prevent and put an end to the development of class differences in sport. When I brought my boys to the bar — that was the first meeting — and we were in the long run, I was told that the six-year-old teammate was wondering how many captains my six-year-old had, because he had four pairs. Then I told my boys, when we went home that night, that I didn't think the long-distance sport was something we could bet on, for a separate sandwich in the garden and four pairs of skis for a six-year-old is not a standard I think we should put on. It scares me when an attitude is established, not least among many parents, that small children should have the same equipment as top athletes and a kind of support device around them at a young age. It's a terrible scary development. We have to remember what are the core values of sport, which are about physical activity, play and community. To make such demands that the kids will perform, and that some parents will live out their dreams through the kids, I think is a very unfortunate development. Young people shall be allowed to participate in sports in order to experience sports pleasures, mastering, community and being part of a team. We must never forget that, and then it's about taking the sport back to those core values. That's why I grabbed this and challenged the sample that the government put down, the Strategy Committee for Sport, just to get hold of this. They were given an additional mandate on how to take action to reduce the differences in class in Norwegian sport. There is no need to develop an A team and a B team, and the frightening development that the Workers' Party and the representative Jan Bøhler are sketching, we should not allow ourselves to evolve further. I am pleased that the government follows up by strengthening arrangements and providing good framework conditions, so that activity offers can be created where the threshold for joining is low. But this isn't just about money. This is also about priorities and attitudes in the clubs, in the circles, from coaches, from sports leaders. The government takes this responsibility through different schemes and cooperation. We're proposing in the state budget to give $178 million. kr for actions under the national grant scheme against child poverty. We have also signed the Leisure Declaration, which says that the municipalities, volunteering and the state together will be committed to a common effort, so that all children and young people, regardless of the family's economy, will regularly participate in one organized leisure activity for a week, I think it is. As a drag, ten million. kr for cooperation projects between municipalities, non-governmental organisations and other actors, so that more children can participate in organisational life. Not least, I am happy to see all the different lending arrangements for equipment available around the municipalities, for example. voluntary centres, which many sports teams have, which mean that children are not to be held back from skiing because their parents cannot afford to buy a pair of once, or that children are not to be kept out of the football team because their mother and father are unable to pay the football quota, and that they can get help through the municipality and other support schemes, so that no children are not allowed to participate in sports activities. In the paper I see that the Workers' Party is concerned with management wages, and that the representative Boehler in the VG says: ‘I hope the Storting can give some signals so that the football team understands that they need moderation and social cohesion. The money cannot go to top management salaries.’ There are strong reactions to the football team’s training being demonstrated by over 4 million. kr. It was on the background that I was challenged to participate in this debate. The representative Boehler of the Workers' Party goes on to say to the VG: ‘I have to say that there is a very lack of judgment. The NFF is part of a movement that spins and saves and is completely dependent on the motivation of the grassroots. Then top managers must understand that they must be a model." The Labour Party then challenges the government and me to debate on the Stortinget. It is quite serious that we have come into a situation where the salaries of the top managers in the sport have become a theme on the Stortinget, and that the big business representatives and the Workers' Party are going out in the newspaper and are so worried and shouting warnings. I think there are many others who are worried too. There are many who share that concern around the sport, but also around Norway, and who wonder why there are millions of wages at the top, and why they have increased quite heavily in recent years, while the waffle roasters and the hardworking people, all the moms and dads and the coaches as every week, several times a week, are on voluntary work and work and contribute to sports without getting a penny in payment. I understand that many are concerned, and that is why I also understand that the Workers' Party wants to address this debate at Stortinget. I want to remind you that we politicians should be very careful about instructing sports. As Minister of Sport, I am committed to the autonomy of sport. It is sport democracy that has to decide for itself. But when the presidents', secretary-generals' and trainers' executives' salaries become a theme in the Stortinget, it's still a signal that we're going to take seriously, a signal that I hope sports also listen to, when the Workers' Party chooses to put it on the agenda today. I hope that we will continue to work together to strengthen different schemes that allow all children – regardless of background, regardless of the family economy, regardless of the resources of those around them – to participate in activities on equal terms. I see that the Labour Party points to some suggestions. I think it's interesting thoughts. I look forward to the Strategy Committee on Sport making its recommendations right over Christmas, so that we get a document from there to discuss further from there. I hope that there will also be suggestions on how to solve some of the major challenges that sport has today, namely the development we see with class differences and outreach in sport. The sport shall be inclusive. The sport should be for everyone, and an incipient outsidership in sport is a very scary trend. That is why I support the interpellant in his concern today and encourage us all to be concerned about good schemes that enable all children and young people to participate in sport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e456	I thank the Council of State for an article with many good points. I'll give you an example of the seriousness of this. It was a sportsman in a local team east of Oslo – in one of the districts I mentioned initially, and who has a very difficult construction situation – who told me that several very talented football players, who had been eager and committed for a long time, but who because of the lack of offers, for poor facilities and for poor opportunities to create a development for those who play, had now ended up among those who are right outside the sports track, namely criminal gang environments. They were recruits there, in one of the most dangerous environments we have in Oslo. It is very important for society that we manage to create good enough opportunities for everyone to be motivated to participate, for everyone to have equal opportunities to evolve. I'm glad the Council understands the reactions out in football-Norway and talks about it. For example, I checked. Furoset Football, which I was in, and which has approx. 400 children and young people in a very important exposed environment in Oslo. They have approx. One and a half million. kr in the annual budget, i.e. half of these salaries that were in the media. They spin and save, they have hard work, they sell waffles – as the council said – they have flea markets and a lot of other things to get 1.5 million. kr. They have no sponsors who turn up that money, so we have to do better when we set up the arrangements. They get very little money through the schemes for which Stortinget is more responsible – I think of the VAT compensation and the grassroots share – because it requires a large turnover and that you have that kind of economy in the clubs. As I mentioned, the golf clubs in particular receive the large allocations from the VAT compensation. I think that the beginning that the Council of State had promises good for the debate. I am very aware of the role of Storting in football, football, etc., and we're going to take care of that. But when we're going to level out differences, everyone has to do their own way. We have to be able to expect that from each other. I also hope that we can go deeper into the arrangements that I particularly believe should be adjusted in order to improve the allocation of resources. These are quite difficult amounts that go to sports, including: through the VAT compensation scheme of a total of 455 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e467	I think the interpellant has a lot of interesting considerations and examples. We have, as the interpellant also says, many types of schemes that just have to be a safety net so that all children are caught and no one falls outside, that there is no outsidership in sport. Sport is the largest receiver of the grass root fraction. The grassroots percentage is to go to small layers and associations, and through the funds there are also several schemes designed to lower the threshold for children and young people’s participation in sport and physical activity. In particular, it is important that we use the surplus from the tipping to the plant, so that there is sufficient facilities around it, and that they should be free of charge, not to be paid. I think there are interesting new ideas from the Workers' Party, both to raise such a debate in Stortinget about the concern about the situation in sport, with the exclusion of children and young people with the leadership salaries, and also in general. I read a post the other day in a newspaper from the director of Holmlia SK, I think she's an Labour Party politician in Oslo. She writes in a chronicle, addressed to me: ‘Low sports performance, poor democratic control, low transparency around economic conditions and doping scandals mean that the sports club is in a state of broken back and record low trust. The time has come to make demands. No one is closer to doing it than the Minister of Culture. She can make clear expectations both for the work of sports with minorities and with women, when she is about to clean up in any case.» It is quite interesting that the Labour Party is now so clear and believes that politicians should take initiatives towards sport, make demands and clean up. This suggests that trust may not be there as it should when asked by the government to intervene in what has traditionally been the responsibility of the sports democracy and which sport has governed. I look forward to following the debate further and what comes out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e483	For the Workers' Party, it is essential that sport be available both to those who want to bet and compete at a high level, to those who want to train and stay in shape and to those who, most of all, will only be with others in one community. Norwegian sport should be for everyone, with everyone, by everyone and throughout life. It is for the state sport policy to make the best possible assumptions. The interpellant points to how social inequalities among children and young people are created and how sport can contribute to the reduction of these inequalities. I'm not going to repeat his points. This is what we have to do, and sport is a very good tool. Something is clearly a parental responsibility that both the Council of State and the interpellant have pointed out. The gear shaft is clearly exclusive, but parents can be stopped together making good rules. Most of it is also the sport's own responsibility, that they ensure that the Norwegian sport model is recognizable from top to bottom in sport itself, and a good part is our responsibility as politicians. We talk a lot about how the sport should be and what values it's thought about, and what it has to do to live up to those values. It is important that politicians send signals and make demands, but we need to know what our tasks are. When politicians end up talking only about what the sport itself has to do, yes, even going a long way in managing matters that the sport itself is responsible for, forgetting that as a politician and a member of the government, you are responsible for the framework conditions and jump over your own promises, I believe that you are being tracked off. I can confirm that the Workers' Party has full confidence in sport. The councils were wondering. It was mentioned in the interpellation post-paid for the coach. That's not the main point of the interpellation. When the sports debate becomes only about it, yes, sports policy loses on it. I believe it is in the interests of the government that the focus is on the internal conditions of sport, and not on the government's inadequate sports policy. ‘The sport is a grassroots movement that is best built from the bottom up. As politicians, our role is to contribute to good conditions for sport, so that the movement itself can find the good solutions’. I think that is very well said – I could clearly have said it myself – but the quote is borrowed from the Council of State even in a chronicle she wrote in 2012. There she found it necessary to clarify that sport is autonomous and a voluntary movement, and that our task as politicians is to provide the framework conditions. And in the next sentence, the Council of State called for more money for sports facilities over the state budget and a better VAT compensation scheme. The years went by, the power came, and the Council of State has made the very opposite of what she promised and weighed in the chronicle. It has not been delivered on a single promise of sport or volunteering. The VAT compensation scheme is still just as unpredictable and creates problems for teams and associations each and every harvest. The right continues to vote against the Workers' Party's proposal to improve it. The money and the delays in the sports facilities have also not been addressed by the government. The right continues to vote against the Workers' Party's proposal for a multi-annual plan with funding from the State budget, so that we could be taken away from the queue of facilities and projects that are now waiting for a turn. That being said, there are obviously some plants that are similar to others, because in the government agreement they have found room for some individual plants to accommodate the state budget. I think that's a little principleal. It is discriminatory and it is detailed management. The most important thing if we want Norwegian sport to be able to help balance differences and continue to do the good work it does is to protect the Norwegian game model, that the profits from people's gambling money go to local activity, culture, volunteering and sports around the country, and not to private actors in tax havens. Nor does the government thank you here. So simple steps that could help stop or limit the aggressive foreign players don't want to be taken by the government. Instead, there is uncertainty about the future of the game model. It is these grips in the state sport policy that I want the Council of State to deliver on. So far, she has thought a lot about internal relationships in sports, less about what is actually her responsibility, her portfolio, the tools the government should use if they actually wanted more cohesion, increased participation and more sporting pleasure for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e509	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic for debate, namely the theme of sport and youth. Sick if the interpellant starts from the situation in Oslo, I think the issue is recognizable in very many parts of the country. Sport in Norway is a movement of people, and it is an arena that embraces very wide. Up to a certain age, everyone is involved in either one or more sporting activities, and in many local communities sport is the most important social meeting place for children and young people. When it comes to what the interpellant more specifically refers to, the more socio-economic distinctions among active teenagers, I think it's a composite picture, but it's a very important problem to point to. I think a lot of sports around the country are speculating the same thing: how are we going to get kids into sports and training even after the 13-14 years and up to the adult age? How will the offer be interesting enough, while we have to try to keep the training fees at a moderate level? How are we going to avoid the offer challenging the wallet of parents and causing someone to fall off because of economics? That picture is also one of the reasons why it is important for us to discuss how we ensure a sports framework that allows us to make good offers throughout childhood and youth, and that embraces everyone without the self-payment shooting in the weather. For the Central Party, it is important that our policy is centrally organised so that it supports local activity and makes sport available to everyone. We have different schemes that can contribute to it. Several of them have been mentioned here today – construction policy, general support schemes and, in particular, the VAT system are important measures. When voluntary sports teams set up with due diligence hours and crowning rolls, the state must also set up schemes that provide guarantees and not uncertainty for the economy of the projects. In this context, I would like to stress that the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities that we have today is designed in such a way that it becomes too insecure. It should have been a rights-driven scheme that could have provided the necessary predictability to sports teams and other voluntary organisations when they undertake the social mission of building sports facilities. At the same time, the Centre Party is open to discuss the mechanism, such as the right regime, which should also be set up to address the broader sport and also to favour the smaller sports laws, and not become a system which is in the best interests of more specialised clubs. So we're open to evaluating the criteria for that. The interpellant mentions the grass root fraction. I must say that I am a little more doubtful about changing the device on it. The grassroots percentage is a typical motivational scheme, and being motivated by the desire to support your club and show loyalty to your club, I think it's a purpose and a background that you should be careful to break up. But it is also the case that sport should be able to have better framework conditions, requiring that sport has confidence, both in the population and in its own ranks. Last week, when you could read in the VG that the reputation for Norwegian sport is poor, and it is a force-salve that now comes from a number of sports stops along with many other enthusiasts, it is a source of concern. The grounds for the claim are not only doping cases in recent months, but also the lack of transparency in the management of the Norwegian sports federations on agreements and economic conditions. Without putting me in the internal position of a voluntary organisation, it is in any case appropriate to point out from this interlocutory that organisations financed and supported by the community through public funds and special arrangements must expect to get the political spotlight on themselves. It is unfortunate when the level of pay in Sport Norway helps to distance the active link from the management of sport. The level of pay must reflect what people most consider to be reasonable. It is also harmful – I would like to stress this – when the organisations show a lack of transparency about this kind of relationship. It should not be difficult to be open also to pay and working conditions. The political spotlight must be on how we manage the state framework, and I would warn against making it too much of a party political debate, and that in some way it is either one or the other party that has made mistakes here or not. But I think it is important for the Minister of Culture to remember that she is also the constitutionally responsible Council of State for the frameworks that politics chooses to set for sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e526	I would like to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellant and the Council of State for an answer that I thought showed a good understanding of the problem. This is important for a number of reasons. It's probably the most superior thing, for sport is one of the most important things we human beings engage in in a society, at all the different levels. We can play football for children – children's football is a small piece of Norway in many communities. It can soon be a class where all the boys play football – and many are involved, including girls. I want to apologize to the representative Arnstad, but there's still a lot more guys playing football. My point is there's so much more than just that activity. But — and this is important — for sport, if one manages to carry a broadest possible base of different children, young boys and girls, up in years, also has a broadest base for talent. If a small country like ours is going to be top international in sports, a lot of talent can't afford to be gone until you know if it really is talent. It's true if we're going to claim ourselves in big international sports like football, for example. But when it comes to skiing, one can go through the list of Norwegian skiers from which they are from over the years, and if only those who can afford expensive equipment, who can be good at skiing in the future, it goes without saying that we will be completely out of chance as a hamnation for decades to come. So I have to add that I also have a great personal commitment to this -- this has dominated the whole growth and my grown-up life, and now it largely dominates every single night with children as well, late yesterday, with the hard work of throwing out tiles to a light bulb where I live. That's why it's important, I think, to go into -- and I want to use a little bit of my experience -- what's going on. The first is that there's a very large growth in purchasing power in Norway, and we can combine that with increasing differences. There is someone who has enormous money to invest in the best and most expensive equipment, while others have less. The second is that organized sport means more than the unorganized one, because there are fewer who ski from themselves to the neighbor or who only meet on the loop. Then the organized sport means more. So sport has been more expensive in quite a variety of ways. In the case of plants, loops and artificial snowworks, underheating on artificial grass, it is more expensive to run the club, but it is also more expensive for the individual. Sock-up shoes in football – for the uninvited there are shoes where a person has a kind of socks as part of the shoe – is something that every child wants, or they want two pairs or four pairs of skis, which I know. There are more expensive equipment, a training offer that costs more, etc. But the last thing is enough that the reason why this is so central is not really the most important thing about the needs. It is possible to be a very good ten-year skier with one pair of skis compared to four pairs. But the pressure to have more and more, the social pressure among children, is there. So there's competence behind it. If you want one pair of skis, you have to lubricate every week, maybe, when it's classic, and when it's ice skating. Then you have to have a parent who can do it, with all the government it has, that has time for it, etc. And there are children who are to be followed up. All of this is someone behind the driving forces. Some words, superiors, about solutions – first of all: General distribution policy plays a decisive role here too. I'll say no more than that. I just want to say that this is even an example of how incredibly important it is. Secondly, I think it makes sense, as the representative of Bohemia and others are here, that we are going through the distribution to installations and how it works. I've seen a similar example myself. A systematic review of this — not least with the aim that sports that reach many in areas where there are many have to get out of it, so that one can reach many, for example. in resource-impaired areas – is important. Thirdly, perhaps one should think more strongly that sports should have equipment. I'll use an example from myself. Sailing is an animal sport – I have a daughter who drives it. There is, however, a lower cost for us per child than for those who have children who are skiing and football, because the club has jolts, has equipment. A club that has invested a lot, has a lot more hard-press to get to it, of course, but it allows a lot of people to actually play with an animal sport at a lower cost than for those who ski, or what I pay for my kids going to football. Finally, the dropout in youth — a hugely important issue, such as: The representative Arnstad spoke about: what do we do with those who see that they are not becoming top athletes when they are 13–14–15 years, but who might have had a great interest that they could draw on and had as a positive thing in their future, which I am an example of. That's the key, I think, to public health for adults too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e541	Like everyone else who has been on this platform in this debate, I would like to thank the interpellant for a good play. Because it is an important debate that he is taking the initiative here. Fortunately, there is a debate going on in Norwegian municipalities, in school environments, among parents and not least in sport itself. Over the last few years, we have seen that increasing social disparities have caused us to have more poor children and more poor families, families that simply cannot afford their children to participate in the many activities of the local environment, including: in sport. Of course, it's a much larger debate to address the causes of increased social differences, but I'm going to leave it in this context. But this is all about growing child poverty, it's about alienation, and it's not least about inclusion. And sport, as part of society, is a very important part of the offers to children and young people. Let me say initially that many sports teams and associations do a fantastic job to include as much as possible in their activities and in their activities. But it's also the ones that can't do that problem as well. Although associations have very ideal objectives for inclusion, it is more difficult to put this into practice when entering the local environment and in sports because, as many have mentioned, sport costs. It's not just the equipment that costs. And let me say, this is ideally not about six-year-olds or seven-year-olds who are going to have four pairs of competitive skis and sandwiches in the garden. That's not where the problem lies. The problem is to pay quotas for sports, to pay training fees to sports, and, of course, to obtain the equipment the children need to carry out their sport. Then we fall into the funding of the sports laws, that is, the operating resources of the sports laws. Unfortunately, the municipalities that are struggling with a weak local economy have also not had the opportunity to follow up on this with increasing subsidies for sports. In addition, municipalities are experiencing a sharp increase in the cost of social assistance, which is now becoming more and more burdensome on municipal budgets. Some of this is due to the desire to balance the problems created by poverty, and in particular child poverty. Finally, let me say that it is very important to have ideal objectives for combating child poverty, and inclusion in sport. But what we can do here is to strengthen the possibilities of sports not only to invest in new facilities, but to ensure that municipalities are given the opportunity to provide more resources to non-governmental organisations. And here, sport is an essential part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e552	I would like to thank you for your contributions to the debate and for your good feedback. It is nice to listen to the understanding and experience that Marit Arnstad, Bård Vegar Solhjell and all of them show in this real issue, and that the representatives also have their own experiences from what is happening out in Sport-Norway. What Marit Arnstad mentions about how few children to continue their sport beyond the age of 13 to 14, was also one of my starting points, because, as mentioned, the survey was among the 24 000 that my figures were built on, done among children of that age, in high school. Establishing good enough offers, attractive enough offers, good enough facilities, wide enough training and development opportunities will determine whether they continue or not, and how they will actually develop further, both as participants in sport and as people. We should primarily look at what we can do about here at Stortinget, and then I was pleased with what Marit Arnstad also said, that she believes that it can be reasonable to look at the criteria for VAT compensation, so that it more favours the parallel, favours those who have a poor construction situation today, and that it does not go to those who have the most, who have the best and strongest economy and the best access to sponsors, etc. I'm glad. I also notice that Bård Vegar Solhjell mentioned that he was concerned with the same problem, and that the Council of State in what she said about the input to the sample that is in work was in the same, so it indicates that we can go in the same direction. I also think Marit Arnstad summed up well what has been said here in terms of management salaries and distribution. It is true that, in the case of organisations supported by support schemes, it is also said from this point of view that voluntary action is involved when management wages contribute to distance learning. It helps those who work locally, who do everything they can to contribute voluntarily, and who turn on each crown, feel that there is something wrong, that it is not going to be motivating, but the opposite. Leader pay needs to be adapted to the local situation of sport and, above all, it needs to be transparent. I think it was a good summary of what was said here about it. At the same time, we must take care of the autonomy of sport and the autonomy of sport, of course, that it is football and football managed as a stand with it. At the same time, we also need to be able to say what is needed here in Stortinget in order to have the best possible interaction on good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e565	I would like to thank the interpellant again for discussing this matter. It's an important debate, so I'm very happy that the representative Bohemia actually takes it into the Storting. Here we're really not used to discussing the content of sport in the way we do now, but I think it's quite in place, and we also hear that from the good contributions of the representatives, who show a very strong commitment to the development of Norwegian sport. What we all know is that there is an amazing amount of good sports activity going on throughout Norway every single day. It is a fantastic offer for children and young people and adults who want to stay in physical activity. They're concerned about it because it gives health benefits, it gives good communities, and it gives sports pleasure. There are also people who are so talented and exercise so hard that they reach the top and give us a lot of good entertainment, for example. during the winter when we are gathered in front of the TV and follow up on what they get, including: skiing. It is also our task, as the representative Arnstad said, when so much of the public money goes to sport, when so much of it is based on voluntary work, and when you work as a waffle fryer and turn on each crown in the sports laws, you feel that the management of Norwegian sport also lives by the same principles. The fact is that with accuracy and moderation and making things simple has characterized Norwegian sport. It's all about values when we bring the orange and the mercury and go and sit in the woods when we're on a ski trip. It's not the exclusive, and it's not a million-dollar salary that Norwegian people want to think about when you identify with Norwegian sports. That's why I think it's coming out very well here, not least about the need to do something about the construction policy. That's where we're going. We had a big meeting with sports this fall, with many special associations, and I have said that we are now going through the entire civil engineering policy, based also on the input from the Strategy Committee on Sport. We need to get a more systematic overview of how we build facilities, not least special facilities, around the country, and that we also make the prioritisation of construction more equitable in the municipalities, the circuits and the counties – to say it that way. VAT compensation has increased dramatically and is going to sport. Local means of activity that help to keep costs down are 315 million. kr in 2016. We're still going to spend a lot of money on sports, but social inequality in sport is a challenge, so we have a lot to deal with at all levels, and that's why I want to thank you for the important debate we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e578	So the debate is on case No. 2 done. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 to 16 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e740	No one has asked for the floor on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e760	Case No. 3 up to and including 16 are the second reading of legislative acts and concern legislative acts 10 up to and including 23. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-06.ana.ud169e776	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
