ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e44	The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of the State of Uppland, Kjersti Stenseng, has taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Are Health For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg In order to attend the Governing Board meeting of the Global Crop Diversity Trust in Bonn on 25 and 26 October, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Party's Depositary Group to the representative of Knut Storberget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Lasse Juliusus, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e83	Lasse Juliussen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e94	The representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e99	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Ib Thomsen, Rasmus Hansson and myself, a proposal for a comprehensive assessment of the museum reform is being made so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e104	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e122	How a society takes responsibility for vulnerable groups, says everything about society. Children and young people who experience neglect are such a vulnerable group. The primary task of child protection is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner, and to contribute to a secure growth environment for children and young people. Child protection shall provide assistance to children and young people who are suffering from care failure and to children and young people with serious behavioural disabilities. The people of Hordaland, Rogaland and Troms have submitted a shattering review report on the so-called glass girl, the 18-year-old Rogaland girl ‘Ida’, her two-and-a-half-year-long detention during child protection. Ida is not the right name for the girl, but she's called it in the articles. The main conclusion is that the girl has not been brought up and cared for in line with our society has decided that children should have. The special feature of the report is that he was able to contact Stavanger Aftenblad himself after "Ida". Stavanger Aftenblad made articles about the case, and it was on that background and based on the information that came out there, that the county officials started investigating. Legal and irresponsible services have been detected in both public and private child protection, Buffetat and health care. The report presented goes beyond establishing that the public has failed. The report concludes that ‘Ida’ has suffered from system failure. The history of "Ida" is such that one cannot believe it a reading, that it is actually true – that child protection can actually destroy traumatized children in this way, that children are standing completely without legal certainty, that they are not being heard, that they are being moved around and torn up from the community environment, that they experience massive coercion and a public utility that does not speak together, and a helper that is most concerned with defending the system, that the protocols are right. Many people talk about system failures and system failures in this matter. I'm not completely in agreement. "Glassy" cases do not show system errors in child protection. It shows failures in the system. This applies to child protection, health care, police and supervisory authorities. There have been systemic failures from both child protection, health care, police and supervisory authorities, all the agencies that are, of course, really there to help, to ensure the child’s health and development. They have contributed to the opposite. It's sad, infinitely sad. This failure cannot continue. ‘Ida’ moves in the spring of 2014 to a child protection institution. She was a traumatized girl who had experienced care failure. Municipal child protection had assessed care-taking while younger, without that happening. But she wasn't doomed, she didn't have a drug problem, she was active in sports and did it right at school. It was before child protection forced her to move to an institution. There are many issues about child protection that are about taking care of is right. That's not what this is about. It is about what happened when child protection took over the responsibility for care. 16 years old, in September 2014, ‘Ida’ came to Bardufoss Airport in handcuffs together with civil police and a trial handler in the Child Protection Service. This was the 'Ida' seventh move of eight months. She was going to Aleris Nymogården, where she was going to live in solitary confinement with two added to her place at any time. She was sick and behaved selectively and threateningly. She had already had several brief stays behind at child protection institutions in Bergen, Eyegarden and Stavanger. In Eyeyard, she puts a guy in her room in desperation about being forced far away from home and the community. In two years, ‘Ida’ had been subjected to forced intervention at the institutions she had bid for at least 87 times. 36 of the interventions were physical use of power, as laying in the floor. 58 different members of the institutions had either been directly involved in the use of power against ‘Ida’ or were present at the time of the use of power against it. The police have at least 49 missions relating to the ‘Ida’. At least 24 times she's been handcuffed by the police. And she was only 16 years old. In addition, the police have, at several times, used stronger powers, such as pepper spray, bodycuff, body searches, strips on the legs and saliva mask. Once the police, according to the witness, have aimed at her with weapons. At least eight times she's been taken to the police station or seen on smooth cell. In the County Report, the ‘Ida’ itself provides advice to the services. She says that no one has asked her about what really bothered her, about how she experienced the use of force. She says that child protection must always talk to the child or youth first, and listen well to the child. No young people have to live alone in an institution if they don't want to. It says that moving only has to be for a period, that no child or youth has to be moved so far that they almost don't understand the dialect of people, or that they don't have neighbors. ‘Ida’ says that if children must be moved from parents, the police must use the least possible power. About child and youth psychiatry, she says, "I almost can't talk about them. They let me in the belt. They should be there to help. And they don't have to look like they don't care. Just now, his ‘Ida’ in juvenile prisons is making a verdict against the police and child protection agencies. It's a paradox that she's experienced so much abuse of power against herself, from the public. What can the Storting do to prevent other children in the same situation, with behavioral and relational problems, with a traumatic childhood, from experiencing the same thing as ‘Ida’? The population comes with 33 action points in their report. They're well-meaning. Many are self-evident, such as the need for participation to become a partner with the child. However, the important thing is that recommendations must be implemented in practice at each institution and in each municipality. It's about culture and leadership and strengthening the first line service. But what happened to “Ida” did not happen because of laws or regulations, but because of violation of laws and regulations. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions are clear on children’s participation and children’s right to help. But it hasn't happened. How is that possible? The indication that a person has to go through the use of words in child protection is important. It is also proposed in the NOU for the new Child Protection Act, which replaces the word "location" with the word "construction". That's absolutely right. We're talking about kids, right? Not criminals. There is a need for consequences for the 'Glassian' case, and it is not just child protection that needs a reform. For example, in the NOW on new child protection laws: proposed a new child protection reform, and it is necessary. What emerges in this matter is the systematic nature of the lack of multidisciplinary cooperation. It has been a rule and not the exception. You can look at child and youth psychiatry, which gets strong criticism, where kids go a long time without getting a diagnosis. In a time and in a situation where we make sure that normally working kids are sent to the hospital to get a certificate of sick leave in secondary school, we do not make sure that the kids with the greatest need for health care help get it. There is also strong criticism from the police. They are not included in the supervisory report, but that they contribute to child protection with so many forced situations, without knowing what the youth has experienced before, is unacceptable and it is not a professionally good job. The supervisory authorities have admitted that they have not done the job in this matter, that those who are to be supervised, and who are to prove when there is a fault and a lack, have not had competence or structure for the work, and that is very serious. I think the real supervisory authority in this case is Stavanger Aftenblad. The county doctor in Hordaland, who has led the investigation, has apologized to ‘Ida’. My question is whether the Council of State will also apologize to the 'Ida' for the way in which the public has failed her. My second question is what is the actual impact of the review report on ‘glazing’ on short- and long-term changes? In my view, the meeting between the departments, which was now on Friday, is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e156	‘Ida’s story has made a strong impression on me, and I have apologized to ‘Ida’ for what she has experienced. This is a serious matter, and it is serious that «Ida» has been so many years in child protection without her having received the help she should have had. It is also thought-provoking that a newspaper article had to be added before we saw the whole story of the 'Ida'. Children and young people in child protection shall not experience the ‘Ida’ action. The report shows that it has failed in many stages, and the criticism of the system is very serious. ‘Ida’ did not receive sufficient assistance and follow-up, and several violations of the requirements of the Child Protection Act and of health legislation are highlighted. ‘Ida’ has not been involved in its case, and there has been little evidence of how her views were taken care of. The use of coercion is criticised and cooperation between services has failed. The offences will be followed up by the State and by those responsible. Although the whole issue of supervision concerns only one particular case, the report also contains assessments, recommendations and criticisms of a more general nature targeting municipalities, Buffetat, child protection institutions, health companies and the supervisory authorities. A central basis for the supervisory report has been the involvement of the ‘Ida’ in a completely different way from what is usual. She has been allowed to make her views known and has provided information on the matter. This is a whole new way of supervising. I am pleased that the Health Authority and the county officials will look critically at their own practices in the light of the experience of this oversight. To assure us that the report is being followed up, the Minister of Health and Health and I have met with our two Directorates, the Health Authority, the County of Hordaland and representatives of health companies. Follow-up work is now being carried out on several teams, both in the short and long term. Both the municipality and the state must take action to prevent other children from experiencing the same thing that the ‘Ida’ has done. Developments in the area of child protection are moving in the right direction in many areas. From surveys, we know that eight out of ten families are satisfied with the relief measures they have received and that the confidence of the population in child protection is increasing. There are fewer emergencies, and the use of foster homes in networks and families is increasing. But even though the quality of some areas is getting better and many are making a great effort to provide children with good help, we have to recognise that there is still a way to make sure that all children in child protection receive the protection and care they need. The risk areas identified in the report are well documented. In recent years, many measures have been taken to strengthen child protection. From 2011 onwards, municipalities have been given earmarked funds to strengthen the capacity of child protection services. From 2014 onwards, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family also became the directorate of municipal child protection. In June 2014, children’s right to participation in child protection was strengthened. It is now clarified in the Child Protection Act that the right of participation applies in all matters relating to the child. Children also have the opportunity to have a special trust person with them. At the same time, a requirement was laid down that all services and measures under the Child Protection Act should be sound in terms of both content, scope and service provision. Accordingly, the supervisory authorities may identify deviations on the basis of the prudential requirements, as the county officials have also done in this case. Work on strengthening the competence of child protection is to be intensified next year. In the 2017 government budget, the government announces an additional commitment to quality and competence development in the field of child protection. This year, municipal child protection services are being offered training to enhance their competence in investigations. In February of this year, an effort was made to provide further training for managers in municipal and state child protection. Children in child protection must receive the health care they need. Therefore, the child protection institutions shall have their own health care officer in order to ensure that cooperation with primary and specialist health services is improved locally. The role of the health care provider is clarified in the new guidelines of 2016 and a digital training programme on children’s health for employees in child protection institutions is now being developed. I believe that these measures will contribute to a higher quality of child protection. The monitoring report shows that cooperation has failed. It is about administrative levels having to talk better together, and cooperation between sectors needs to become more committed – which is absolutely essential for children who need it to get the right help. In 2015, the Directorate for Health and the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family have received a number of joint assignments specifically aimed at children in child protection institutions, including: on mapping, cooperation and knowledge development. In this context, the two Directorates shall make common recommendations on how to strengthen cooperation between child protection and healthcare on the basis of input from a wide-ranging working group. In cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare, I will return to the follow-up to those recommendations. In 2015, regional health businesses were given the task of providing structures and procedures to ensure that children in child protection institutions are properly investigated and treated for mental and drug dependence. All regional health establishments have notified that this work has been carried out. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is also investigating the package of mental health and substance abuse. One of the package trajectories targets children in child protection institutions. The aim is to increase predictability for patients waiting for investigation and treatment and to improve cooperation between the various help offices. We are now assessing whether it may be appropriate to apply this overall approach in other areas of child protection. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family also has ongoing cooperation with the Directorate for Police on guidelines for police and child protection. The aim is to increase the quality of studies where there is a suspicion of violence or sexual abuse by caregivers. The report also drew attention to the use of coercive measures. The right-wing regulation says that institutions need to work preventively to prevent unnecessary use of coercion. In 2017, the Health Authority shall draw up guidelines for the work of the County State on coercive decisions and protocols. The Health Directorate has taken a little breath into the ground when it comes to investigating the guidelines, to look at the report that has now come – whether there are things that need to be changed. In order to gain knowledge of the treatment of individual cases and to identify possible failures and why failures may occur, the government has also asked the State Health Authority to review a wider range of emergency placement and care takeover issues. The proposal for a new Child Protection Act has recently been submitted by a selection body. The reason for investigating a new law was to improve legal certainty for children and to create a more understandable and accessible law. The committee’s proposal is very relevant to the follow-up to the supervisory report. Among other things, the sample proposes changes which it considers will strengthen the right of children to sound care and protection and the right of individual children to participate in their own actions. The committee also proposes a statutory obligation to keep records, including: evidence of child-protection assessments and the involvement of the child shall be provided. The investigation will be carried out at public hearings, and we aim to draw up a legislative proposal as a follow-up to the work of the sample. Children shall not experience the ‘Ida’ has done. The measures we are now implementing are important contributions to the development of services. The experience of the ‘Ida’ case must have a bearing on the offer of other children and young people in her situation. The Minister of Health and Health and I want to make sure that this work has a lot of pressure and that it continues. There will also be a follow-up meeting with the stakeholders concerned to ensure that we have a good overview of the status and results of this work. I can assure Stortinget that this is not a report that will be put in a drawer – the County will follow closely these crimes. The cases will not be closed until any deviations have been found. We're on it. However, it is very important that we have this report, because it is going to change the whole service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e204	It is good that the Council of States publicly apologizes to the ‘Ida’, and it is good that the case and the investigation report have led the departments to talk together, and that the Council of State says this should get a lot of pressure on the government. I believe that this is such a descriptive matter and an investigation report that has received so much attention that the government had started to present to the Stortinget, in its own way, how it has now emerged, will be followed up, and what changes are actually proposed – so that it does not involve this interpellation debate, and then it is over. After all, child protection is the biggest issue – we are the seventh and the last with responsibility – and I would at least suggest that the Council of State consider putting this forward to the Grand Council in an appropriate way, so that we can also make our contributions to the work that is now absolutely necessary to do. One point on which the Council of State was not involved is police force. The police did not attend that meeting either, as I heard it. But police force against minors is not registered. Unlike those added to child protection institutions that have to maintain protocols on coercive use, this is not the case for the police, nor may they have the competence to deal with children and young people for whom child protection is concerned and to which they must contribute. So that's the only thing I want to ask the council. The second thing is, the Council of State was not clear about this with moving. It is a major problem, which does not appear in the review report, that children and young people are being torn up from the community environment of the institution. 'Ida' wanted to go home again, she didn't want to definitely go home to mother, but she wanted to go home again to Karmøy. Would the Council of State say something about the current practice of being able to tear up and move to another state, move to a completely different part of the country, without problem-solving it? The last one applies to health. That's what the Council of State is talking about in its article, but this is absolutely fundamental. In the NOU that comes, the concept of child health reform is used. There is no meeting available. Will the Council of State support a new reform requiring cooperation between health and child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e217	I will of course inform Stortinget about all that Stortinget wants to know. Now we have this interpellation – which I also want to praise the representative for having taken up – so that we could have this debate here today. Nevertheless, it is such that the Storting adopts laws. The government draws up regulations, circulars and guides on the basis of what the Storting has decided, and our information on what cooperation we have with other departments, what measures have been taken in the area of child protection, is also well described in the budget proposal that the Stortinget is now dealing with. I want to stress that this is a failure, despite – as the representative was also involved – that we have laws. We have a law that is very clear and clear about how children in Norway are to be cared for. There is a health requirement and it is the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that they have adequate child protection and that those who work in the services – whether they are in the municipal sector, whether they are in the state sector – actually have knowledge and competence of the law and the regulations and guidelines given, from both government and enlargement. There we have seen that it fails, and therefore it is important that we now work to increase our competence and quality out there. But I would also like to stress that this report has now been put on the agenda of the municipality of Karmøy, which has taken over the failures that have occurred. I'll almost go as far as to say that this report should be a syllabus. It should be – not good reading, it will be wrong words – something that all those working in the field of child protection, at all levels, should take over and read. Because this shows that it is not always true to laws and regulations, it must also be practiced in a municipality. So I want to say that, as far as the police are concerned, we have started a cooperation on child protection with the Police Directorate to see how this cooperation can be improved, because here we see that there needs to be some better guidelines. So when it comes to moving, it's the municipality that's going to map the individual child and what kind of institution or foster home it needs. We've seen that in some cases the youth has been sent to an institution where this has led to great distances, and we're striving as far as we can to find an institution and a place for the individual child in the community, but that's also going to take care of what the child needs. This is what we are now working on, and in the new child protection reform that the government has said it will present – which has been on the hearing and will be presented to the Stortinget next year – we will also look at the relationship between state and municipality in the institutional field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e232	I would first like to thank the interpellant. I agree. It's a musculoskeletal matter – and it's touching us. The protection of children, whatever their level, shall be the Dovreberg of children whenever necessary. The children that child protection helps are and will become among society's most vulnerable. Every day, we must strive to have child protection that helps to give them a daily life of more and better care, more and better love, and that strengthens their prospects. This requires resources. Research-based knowledge and experienced, knowledge-rich and not least wise adults are required. We also need children's voice, experiences and feedback. It requires cooperation between departments and requires trust between the various parties involved. When the Stortinger made new decisions on child protection legislation two years ago, it was made clear that the number of children in child protection had increased considerably over a longer period of time. The report from the county councils also clearly shows that you cannot lean back – only improve and strengthen the offer we give together to those who need it the most. Acknowledging that a good childhood lasts a lifetime, it carries a heavy responsibility. We must take that responsibility as elected representatives. The interpellation today is a powerful reminder of that very thing. The feedback from the «glassman» and the crimes that have been committed in the matter are important for the future work, where we must strive to ensure the best possible and best possible protection for children, and that children need to be heard and listened to much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e251	I have read many oversight reports, but I have never read one like this. It is something as rare as a supervisory report that touches on us, that gives us good lessons, that shows failure in the system in a way that makes it bad to read, that gives it a clear and clear voice in this case, a report we have to learn from. In the report, «Ida» herself says that she should not have been taken from the family when she had grown up. We should do something while she was young. Serious messages were not missing as ‘Ida’ was a small girl, but the system did not take this seriously enough. The people in the system dropped the case because Mother would not cooperate. This is almost incredible to read. Today we have changed the law so that child protection cannot do this. They can go in and help families even when their parents refuse. This is a good change. There is much that can be said about everything that needs to be done to prevent all that ‘Ida’ has had to go through, not to happen to others. And the Council of State has presented this in a very good way. But one thing I think it's worth adding, and there's actually more love in the system. I never thought I'd be a lawyer to say this, but the kids and the kids at the Change Factory say this every time we meet them – and they've convinced me. This supervisory report has convinced me. We need more cooperation, we need less coercion, we need higher quality, we need to listen to the children and the youth, we need to give them coercion, but the jam shows this report that we need more love and respect in our system as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e262	Thank you to the interpellant for seeing this serious matter on the agenda. I probably have the hall – and Norway as a whole – with me in that the case of the «glazed girl» «Ida» is cruel and false reading. I had to read several portions myself. It's almost as if you don't believe a lesson. The treatment of Ida is almost as if you are dealing with one of the most serious criminals in this country. When one has come through the reading, sit back sadly and stated over a system that cannot be Norway worth it. So wake me up a little angry, anxious that even if we in this room make laws that we believe are for the benefit of the citizens, they will be broken and abused in flight – in all circumstances in this matter. We've failed the "glazed girl," and I'm afraid we've failed more. How can this happen? The public, the private, the municipality by municipality, the institution by institution – yes, it eventually becomes so that you wonder if there is anything that has been done correctly in this matter at all. The supervisory reports are clear and clear. One has failed. One has failed when it comes to participation and the real impact of children, one has failed when it comes to lack of evidence and lack of judgment, one has failed in relation to foster home and further follow-up, and one has failed when it comes to multidisciplinary cooperation, which is very important in relation to all children in child protection. In particular, I have to name the police and their competences on children in child protection, which are clearly missing. Childcare services and institutions, responsibilities and borders, failure is also here — and the extent and use of coercion. The list is long. Cause, "Ida"! I'm sorry the system and the people around you have failed you. Then there are various crushing reports that will now form the basis for the road further on. In other words, the challenges for a better system are many. Action must be taken quickly, in addition to the fact that competence building is needed within the different areas. But quality must be the basic factor, ranging from child protection to well-established in all cooperation bodies to protect vulnerable children. There's a certain anxiety I have to add, which is actually not so much to write about. Anxiety applies to all the people who have actively contributed to creating this sad story of ‘Ida’: Are these strata still in the services that have contributed to the suffering of ‘Ida’ in this way? The question needs a second step. Because I am actually anxious and afraid that there are several ‘glazed girls’ or ‘glassware’ out there. And I sincerely believe that the agencies that run, also have to look at whether the resources that you surround are able to do a good enough job for many children who are in difficult situations, and not least with their life challenges. Or is it that with a little more competence, a little more involvement, a little more pay, maybe, they're still there – to keep children in child protection? Human resources policies around the institutions of the Ida have been in place, in the bodies it has met, need to be stepped up more closely to ensure the best quality in all parts of the service, and not least to ensure that this will not happen again. Then we can wish and we can believe and we can hope that everything will be done correctly from our law, but the fact that we can stand here and mean and view and adopt is no guarantee that those out there are delivering in the best way possible. It's the human resources that matter here. We have to take care of them, and they have to be very good. This interpellation debate is about you, ‘Ida’, because you're burning the very best on your way forward in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e281	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for travelling an important matter. There are some very serious revelations we have seen, and the really serious thing is that this is not about individual matters, but about system errors. This is an important interpellation, and it is doubtful that the systems do not function better than the fate of the ‘Ida’ has shown us. One of the biggest representatives of the Christian People's Party from Rogaland, our Vice-Chairman Olaug Bollestad, sent in April a question to Councillor Horne about exactly this. She pointed out that through a number of articles on ‘Ida’, Stavanger Aftenblad had uncovered unsustainable administrative practices and offences in both Norwegian child protection, juvenile psychiatry and police. The evening newspaper had then told this story about the girl who up through the growth was neglected by close superiors, but also by the public. The evening paper had shown that everything from health center to child protection, school, police, medics, hospital wards and child and youth psychiatry had failed this girl. So we now know that the statesmen's report points out a completely fundamental system failure in so many terms and in different instances. This implies that this type of failure of public health care for vulnerable children is likely not only to concern this girl, it is probably not just ‘Ida’. We know that there are errors and deficiencies at all levels, municipal, county and state, in child protection. And we know that the system can fail, even if the individual child protection educator, health worker, police or teacher makes a lot of effort. We know some of this also from previous reports – errors in services, lack of professional competence and lack of cooperation between agencies, among others. documented in recent years by both the Health Authority, the National Audit Office and the Flatø Committee. Repeatedly, poor cooperation between school, police and various health and social services is revealed through serious violence and child abuse. Damaged children and their helpers are affected by tunnel vision in disciplines, legislation, organisation and budgeting of services. This is not facilitated by internal disagreements between departments, regions, county councils and municipalities on the division of responsibilities, types of action, time use, organisation and budgets. The size has an overall responsibility to ensure a safe growth for all children. We have seen that we are unable to ensure a safe growth for all children in Norway today. It's serious, and we can't accept that it is. There are, of course, no simple answers, but I hope that the Stortinget will be able to take us a few steps further as we are about to adopt changes in the Child Protection Act and throughout the child protection structure in the next few months. Much is also to be done when the Storting is to adopt the obligatory and comprehensive plan of escalation aimed at reducing the occurrence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse. I'm not saying this solves everything, but the story of "Ida" has shown us that there's a system failure here that we can't close our eyes to. Safe growth for all children – there is nothing more important than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e296	Thank you very much to the interpellant for addressing this extremely important matter. In the case of child protection, the best permanent focus of the child shall be the main focus. I think we all agree on that. The question is how we take care of the child’s best interests. Is it when we try to see the child's situation as isolated as possible, or is it when we go further into and assess the overall environment in which the child lives – the relationship with mother and father, to siblings, grandparents, other families, the school and the community? I'm afraid we all too often see that child protection goes into things they get, with a too narrow focus on what's right here and now, i.e. in the acute situation. I am also afraid that the purely child-care focus is too narrow to capture the various reasons that may have given us a child-restraint case. The problem is that one does not get the whole reality of the child and how the measures taken will work in the long term. The story of the interpellant Toppe gave us about the «glazed girl», tells us that we cannot settle down on the conditions as they are today. Norwegian Child Protection does not always work for the best of children. I have no desire to address a general criticism of all those who daily do their very best as child protection employees. They are set to solve incredibly demanding tasks that greatly interfere with the lives of individuals, in the lives of young people, in the lives of families and in the community. But we have to provide guidelines that ensure that similar situations never happen again. Nevertheless, I have to ask questions about whether we have organised child protection well enough, and whether the legislation in a safe way places emphasis on the different aspects of child protection. I have some wishes for the development of child protection in the future: First of all, I want a child protection system that can go further into prevention. We need to contribute more to the family being able to master its challenges. Child protection must have the resources to act on time, so that we can more often prevent painful interventions, which take care of both the family and the child. Secondly, I want a child's protection that's more part of an effort chain than it's going to solve the problems for itself. Schools, health services, social services and family protection must have overall responsibility for facilitating the best interests of the child. If today's legislation is adapted to such a model, I ask myself. I am in doubt, and have noticed, that the provision on professional secrecy is often used as a reason not to cooperate across borders. And there must not just be cooperation around the kid. There must also be cooperation with the child. The kid needs to be heard. As in this case, when a person wants to stay in the community, but is moved around the country in that way – it is totally unsustainable that the child’s desire is not heard. Thirdly, I want child protection that looks at the local environment as a resource. Whether the only solution is to take a coercive action, to take care of the child does not mean that it is best for the child to take it out of the community, out of the class, away from comrades and away from voluntary activities. In exceptional cases, environmental degradation may be necessary, but in most cases it will reinforce the challenges of moving away from mother and father. All kids need stability. Kids who have grown up in a home that eventually takes them away from their parents need more than all the other kids. Changing schools and moving a family is demanding also for young people growing up in a stable family. It takes time to find friends, feel safe in class, become part of the football team. How do you think this works on a young person who has initially had unstable growth conditions and who has major mental problems? Young people taken under the care of child protection will continue to have a relationship with their parents, whether through the visitation scheme or by returning to their parents’ care after a period of time. The best interests of children will therefore be to ensure as smooth a transition as possible between the measures taken by the protection of children. The 'Glasschenta' meeting with 14 different establishments and institutions is – we hope – an absolute exception. Nevertheless, we must show willingness to go through legislation and practices in the field of child protection in order to avoid this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e315	I want to start by thanking Stavanger Aftenblad and journalist Thomas Ergo, who has done a very thorough and unique job of giving society insight into a very serious fate and very serious betrayal. Through a book-long printing plant, Stavanger Aftenblad dares to give sound to a voice that could otherwise easily be lost, thus creating a completely necessary social debate and a completely necessary room for system criticism. I would also like to thank the interpellant, Kjersti Toppe, for raising the matter again when the report is available. The story of ‘Ida’ shows how wrong it is when children and young people do not get involved in their own lives, how wrong it is when relationships and security are not built up, but torn down, and how wrong it can be when powerless people meet with power use. Then it is good to hear that the Council of State is clear that no child should bear stories that the ‘Ida’ has been taught. There is also a strong signal sent when the Council of State says that the report will change the entire service. Then it's natural to ask the Council of State to elaborate on how it's going to happen, and also to ask if the Council of State sees that the resource situation, in combination with systematic system failures, can prevent future failures, because then I think it's very far between the clear signals that the Council of State gives about changes in the entire service, and the means that the Council of State will make available for change work. Safe and accessible adults who have a professional anchoring that makes you stand firm when the ground fails under the small ones have a cost side. Competence, quality and sufficient employees in child protection are a social investment that, in the SV's view, we can't afford, but the government can't afford to take. So it's not enough that child protection has child-responsive competence. The Minister of Children pointed out to the Minister of Health, naturally, and the cooperation on system changes that must take place. But I miss the role of the Minister of Justice in this cooperation, and I miss the assurance that child-care skills are available to all those who are going to work with children, and in particular those who are going to work to take care of the most vulnerable children. Systematic work on child-reliance, looking at it from a child-respect point of view, and systematic work on improving culture and management are necessary when dealing with the most vulnerable among us. Then it's not always that there are enough people and enough education that's necessary, and that's why it's so important to make sure that the children themselves get involved in their own lives, and that you have a cultural change that makes fine words actually become the reality and everyday life of children. I believe in the Council of State's sincere regret of 'Ida', and I think it is strong to hear, but I still miss the signals of material intervention so that people can be seen in the life they live, which should have been changed, and could get the help they need in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e329	Before Easter, I was sent to Stavanger Aftenblad, who contained the article on "Glasschenta". I don't know who sent it to me, but I read it anyway during the Easter holidays. This was an article that was not only very well worked through and important, but also an article that made me very upset and despaired. But what may be more sad is that the story of "Ida" is unfortunately not the only one. The case of the «glazed girl» has now been examined and the message is reasonably clear: «Ida» has not received proper help. A total of 14 health and child protection establishments have been surveyed, and this review shows that ‘Ida’ has not been brought up and cared for in line with what our society has stated that children should have, and several businesses have not provided services in line with the law. Since I have been sitting for several years in what was formerly called the Billing Replacement Committee, I have read several thousand cases dealing with public failure against children in demanding situations. I don't have numbers on how many thousands have received such compensation. But this applies to matters far back in time, and you should have thought that you had learned something through decades of assault and neglecting children. The youth from the Change Factory has repeatedly pointed out that too many case handlers believe that they know best and that they do not involve the children. The report shows that no cooperation and involvement of ‘Ida’ has been facilitated and no attention has been paid to the needs of ‘Ida’. Now in retrospect, ‘Ida’ has been told and told its opinion. This is good, but it's too late. In June 2014, children’s right to participation in child protection was strengthened. Fortunately, it is now clarified in the Child Protection Act that the right to participation applies in all matters affecting the child. Even I'm the backup mother of a girl who's been under child protection since she was 11. And she's also moved around, 16 times, and she's also been subjected to a lot of coercion. Always have you talked over her head, never have they involved her. Freedom of choice and participation have been foreign. They've clientized and built up the girl instead of building her up. I am very pleased that the report will be followed up, and that the Health Minister and the Minister for Children have met with their Directorates, with the Health Inspectorate, with the County of Hordaland and with representatives of health businesses. Children in child protection shall receive the necessary health care. Therefore, there is also an important strengthening that has been done when we now say that child protection institutions should have their own ‘health manager’. The development of a digital training programme for children’s protection institutions to enhance their understanding of children’s health, and the fact that in 2015 the Health Directorate and the Bufdir received a number of joint assignments specifically aimed at children in child protection institutions, are important steps that can and must lead to an improvement in the conditions for children and young people following the ‘Ida’. Regional health establishments have also been entrusted with the provision of structures and procedures to ensure that children in child-restraint institutions are properly investigated and treated for mental illness; and dependence on rest. Fortunately, all regional health companies have reported that this work has been carried out, as well as working on packaging for mental health and drug use. One of these packages is targeted at children in a child protection institution. Unfortunately, ‘Ida’ is not alone. We've heard it before. Therefore, the Storting has been concerned about this for several years, and I am pleased about that. But now the results also have to come. Finally, I would like to thank the journalist for going into a very complex and big case, and that, when he first chose to make a case, he did so thoroughly. ‘Ida’ and this article will make a difference, I am absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e363	I would like to thank the interpellant Kjersti Toppe for the initiative and also journalist Thomas Ergo, who has shown himself to be the real supervisor in this matter. "It wasn't the first time Geir Fjeldstad moved out to handle Ida that summer, and he knew that it was going to talk to her. He saw that she was terrified, looked down, and a thousand thoughts herded in her head. But as she recognized his voice, she raised her eyes, and it was here – before she went voluntarily into the cell phone – that she cried and said the words that had burned herself in him: ‘This isn’t really me.’ An army of public-trusted officials witnessed against Ida during her many legal and academic cases. And every time, police officer Geir Fjeldstad was summoned in an attempt to crack crack the image of the rabbitic child protection child Ida." This is stated in "Glassjenta" in Stavanger Aftenblad, on page 26. I want to repeat what the policeman got burned in his memory: ‘This really isn’t me.’ It also made a very impression on me, because I know myself again. It is very common for young people with a high degree of relationship damage to experience this. People who are supposed to be assisting don't last. Youth is so damaged that their experience is that people don't put up with them, so they fail youth. Unfortunately, this is normal for many. The first line doesn't work, Buffetat's sitting in his offices, and they don't get them out in practice. The Children’s Protection Organisation has been further developed and constantly relocated under the red-green government, but many reports of basic failure by professionals at the “gold” have shown me that it is not a improvement. I have experienced deafness demands for practical exercise and a wall of political inviolability against a system that has upset me. What I now hear from professionals in the department is that the plan of the Progress Party is to keep the bureaucracy in Buffetat while wanting to privatize the exercise of the job in assisting young people. The council said here that one is going to change the entire service in the future, she says that the supervisory report is going to be a syllabus. I've read the entire surveillance report. It is incredibly heavy and abstract, and at least it must be read with Stavanger Aftenblad's "Glassjenta". I'll say that's the most important part of the curriculum. As you understand, I am not a member of the Progress Party's plan as understood by professionals in the establishment. Bufetat has today as many bureaucrats as young people. Bufetat's organization is the directorate where you need about six buses to attend a seminar. There is a regional organisation in which the underlying agencies are always in continuous transition, which means that problems need to be reinforced rather than the institutions need to be subdued, and that people from the institutions go into reinforced foster homes, with the help of them, so that one makes it work better — in general, that the staff in Bufatat have to go into the first line as an increase in basic staff. Relatively damaged young people need to get to a place where there are professionals who tolerate and tackle youth, so that they do not have to be moved. The place must be in a reasonable proximity to the home and community of young people. Young people such as ‘Ida’ must have assistance from stable people until they are 20 years old instead of today’s 18 years old. The period from 18 to 20 years we know is a critical period. We know that young people who grow up in safe homes need help even after they are 18, and these young people need that support at least. I would like to conclude by saying that when the Council of State says that one is going to change the entire service, it is essential that the Council of State comes to the Stortinget with this matter as soon as possible, so that we get a clear idea of what the Council of State means by that change – whether that is what is being told me from the professionals of the establishment, or what has been given the impression here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e387	Thank you very much to everyone who has had articles. Of course, all parties believe that this is a terrible matter and would like no one else to experience the same thing. I am a little more questioning about – and still uncertain about – the consequences. It's said a lot of wise. There are several people who have had problems and have had to read the report in several ways, and it has made a big impression. But the worst thing is that this is reality. It's not a simple matter, it's bigger than itself. She's about system failure, system failure, or, as I say, system failure. Helga Arianson, who is the leader of the investigation and is a member of the Hordaland community, stated in connection with the report, that she hoped that the case could ‘contribute to important changes for other children and young people under the care of child protection’, and that ‘however we are able to contribute to change at the level of the system will determine whether we have succeeded’. When the Council of State now says that this will be a syllabus, and that it will change the service itself, there will be a very strong case in the field of child protection. I would like to repeat that I believe it is then natural that there is a matter in Stortinget, or that we bring up a matter in Stortinget if the government does not follow up when a notice that there should actually be changes in the system itself. It's also a challenge that there are no laws and regulations that are the problem, but that this has happened despite laws and regulations, so part of the solution can be precision. You may need to legislate something that is not legal today, for example. cooperation between health and child protection and other bodies. A final question to the Council of State: in the now presented NOU, it is suggested that today there is a lack of government provision for those children who have the most serious mental health problems and need long-term care outside the home. It is recommended that a fixed system is established that is cross-sectoral for these children and that they be converted into health institutions with a more long-term perspective on treatment. I would like to have a comment on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e402	This report shows a failure, and it has been a crime. The size of the fund adopts legislation – they also adopt budgets – and when the Storting adopts a law of soundness, as it did in the previous period relating to the child’s right to participation, the Storting believes it. And when this report shows crime and failure in all fields, from the municipal to the state, it is important for me to stress that those crimes are to be followed up. The team members will follow this up and will not close the cases of deviation until this is in place. The Health Minister and I called our underlying offices when we saw this report, to underline the seriousness and that this had to be followed up. Then I want to stress that the cooperation challenges we have in mental health and child protection are nothing new. That is why I am very pleased that the Health Minister and I took this very early and gave clear signals to both our Directorates that this work had to be intensified. We are now receiving a report in November on how this work can improve. We've got a NOU, a proposal for a new Child Protection Act that deals with many of the areas to which the supervisory report also refers and that must be followed up. I will send it out to the hearing and promote a case for the Stortinget about this. I hope we're not going to flip the political coin on this. Child protection is currently governed by a law adopted by the Stortinget. A cross-political collapse agreed with the proposition adopted in the previous period – Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013 – which also pointed to the requirement of safety and that Bufdir should be a trade directorate. I would like to stress that the most important child protection work is in the municipalities. I welcome the wishes of the representative of Mr Greni for the protection of children. It's the same wishes I have. I want parents to be able to meet very early to be safe, good parents, that we should be able to work prevention, with early efforts and cooperation across services, to avoid taking care of them. When we have to have a care takeover, it is important that both networks and relatives are evaluated. It has also been consulted by the government in order to legislate — using family councils, finding the best place for the child, so that the child can grow up in a safe and good family or in an institution, what is best for the child. We will take this work seriously and follow up the way that is best suited.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e419	Then there's case no. 1 finished. Case No. 2–4 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e453	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 2-4. After it had been called to vote, said Then we go to a short voting session. We just have to be 85 representatives. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e470	Case No. 2–4 is the second reading of legal acts and concerns Acts 2, 3 and 4. There are no suggestions for comment in any of the cases, and the Bill of the Grand Duchy is therefore approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-25.ana.ud460e538	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
