ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e96	The President would like to draw your attention to the fact that there will be voting during the Unit. The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Gunvor Eldegard, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Willfred Nordlund, has taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Une Aina Bastholm, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 23 May until further notice under the permission of the representative Rasmus Hansson, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates, Knut Falk Qvigstad, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e135	Knut Falk Qvigstad is present and will take the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 23 May until further notice. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Audun Otterstad, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget on 24 and 25 May, for welfare reasons. From other alternates, Gunn Elin Flakne, there is an application for an exemption from meeting the Stortingen on 24 and 25 May, due to illness. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the goods, Audun Otterstad and Ferhat Güven, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e170	Audun Otterstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e176	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli and Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Sylvi Graham are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e188	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 13, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will also inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e238	Mr Bergstø has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e241	I would like to maintain the proposal that the proposal of the representative to ensure the treatment of the social security settlement in Stortinget should be dealt with promptly and in accordance with § 39(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e246	The President will, if necessary, give the parties the opportunity to say something about this procedure. It's not necessary, but if someone feels they have to do it, they're allowed to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e249	I will just explain that I recommend the Members of the Workers' Party to vote in favour of the Bergstø proposal for treatment according to § 39(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e254	On behalf of the Right and Advance Party, I recommend that the party groups vote against the proposal. It's simply because we don't think it's a matter of urgency. It was a relatively obvious matter in the context of the budget. It got a whole page, page 15, in the budget proposal that got a pretty broad agreement in the committee. I quote from the Committee's majority comments: ‘The Committee points out that, from the financial year 2016 onwards, the government has put forward a new practice, in which the estimated impact of the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s population is budgeted in the relevant chapters of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs’ budget, instead of being capped. 2309 Random expenditure under the Ministry of Finance.» «The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left» – I will also assume the Christian People's Party, since the Christian People's Party is not in the Committee – «notes that new budgetary procedures do not affect the implementation of social security arrangements.» The implementation of the social security settlement functioned according to the intention of the previous process. The issue was also raised in the hearing of the budget of the Labour and Social Committee and in minority comments. So there is really no reason to have an urgent procedure on this matter. [[The President clubs.]] The matter is in the revised budget, and it is our recommendation that the matter be sent to the Committee in the usual way, as the Presidency has set up. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e268	The President will not allow any debate on this matter, but the parties will be allowed to present their proposals. - Then we've noted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e271	The left is still behind the comment, and it does not affect the implementation of the social security scheme, but when SV maintains its proposal, I would nevertheless recommend the Left vote for it to be dealt with under § 39(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e276	We believe that by sending the matter to the committee one will nevertheless have time to examine the matter and the facts in it and then adapt the outcome to other matters that may affect the settlement of social security, for example. the revised budget. We vote in favour of ordinary treatment, and then we consider the reality itself when the committee has given its opinion to Stortinget. We are not in the Committee as we know it, but we recommend that it be referred to the ordinary committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e281	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to recommend the proposal by the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) It appears from the majority opinion in the position of the Labour and Social Committee that the budgetary procedures should not affect the implementation of the social security system. It's a fact that it's being done, and that's why it makes sense that we support the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e287	Several have not asked for the floor, and it is voted on the procedure for proposing a representative document 8:96. The President's proposal is to send the matter to the Labour and Social Committee, while the Socialist Left has proposed that the matter be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that the case is pending for at least one day and is subsequently entered on the agenda for consideration. Let's go to voting. The voting boards showed that, by alternative voting between the president's proposal and the proposal of the Socialist Left, there were 56 votes in favour of the President's proposal and 49 votes in favour of the Socialist Left's proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.14.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e300	Can the President refer the parties who will vote in favour and those who will vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e305	There were 56 representatives who voted to refer the matter to committee and 49 representatives who voted in favour of the Socialist Left. Does that mean that many people don't know what to vote for? Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e352	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e366	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e380	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e387	We have two major environmental challenges. It's the fight against climate change, which fortunately gets more and more attention, and then it's working to take care of our nature, biodiversity. Biodiversity has a value in itself, and in addition, it is crucial for us humans. We can't choose which of these two environmental problems we're going to solve. We have to solve both of them at the same time. This government is the first since Trygve Bratteli set up the Ministry of the Environment, which no longer has its own Minister of Environmental Protection. The fact that the word ‘environmental protection’ is away from the Minister’s title is not, in itself, a problem. But far worse is that it also seems to be away from government policy. No new initiatives are being taken to ensure environmental protection, and in areas by area, we see that nature considerations are losing. For nature does not face one great threat, no, the threat to nature is that it is being built down, step by step, because it loses against other priorities, often important considerations, but in sum it is nevertheless serious when nature is being built down, step by step. I am very pleased that the Stortinge decided a little over a year ago that the government's planned strategy should be treated here as a separate big message, because it has given us the opportunity to fill it with much more policy. For the big message presented by Vidar Helgesen, a good description of why it is important to take care of nature, and why nature conservation is an important political task, but is thin on the political content. That is why I am pleased today that the Stortinget can gather on many important proposals, and it is also good that the government parties are involved in most of them. Then you can ask yourself, ‘Why didn’t these measures come first in the communication? Is it true that the points adopted today, the measures adopted today, are measures by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change really opposed, but that he is being dominated by his own large-scale groups? I guess I don't really think so, but I think the Right Party and the Advance Party have got together, because they've seen that there's a majority in the Chamber for this, and to avoid going on a lot of defeats. It makes it visible that the real edge of Norwegian environmental policy is today's government. Today, many important decisions have been taken. One of them is that the Storting sets a goal that we're going to protect 10 pst. of the forest in Norway. This is an important and historic decision that many have been working on for many years. In Norway, we have achieved a good system of voluntary protection with which all parties are satisfied, and this decision is a marshy land for the government to increase the appropriations through the State budget. It promised this government, before it acceded, that it would do it. Nevertheless, in their first ordinary budget they proposed to strangle the whole scheme by removing two-thirds of the appropriations. I hope that the Stortinget's clear decision today gives the Minister good arguments in budgetary negotiations with Siv Jensen. The decision today is that we should have a marine protection plan. Norway is a port. How we treat our marine areas in terms of both the clean-up and use of resources may be our most important international contribution to nature conservation. One of the areas where this forecasting was in fact a weakening of nature protection in Norway is what was written about the management plan regime, where it included: cancelled the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. It has told Stortinget that it will come in the period, but the government has chosen not to follow up. Therefore, it should not be surprising that the Storing today clarifies what has been said several times, that all parties, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, are today asking the Government to present the Norwegian Sea management plan during the period. In order to avoid having to face similar situations again, Stortinget also adopts a good system for updating and rolling management plans regularly. Thorbjørn Berntsen's work on the National Park Plan in the 1990s has contributed to great results. We have taken care of areas that are important for future generations and that have given local pride and responsibility for important natural areas. The Labour Party is today promoting a proposal to move forward and to ask for a supplementary national park plan, and we are also asking that the government take decisions on Virgin and Raet as soon as possible. Finally, let me thank all the parties in Stortinget for a good cooperation in this important matter, and let me not least thank the environmental organisations, who have contributed many good suggestions, a lot of knowledge and facts, which have enabled them to stand out in the hiking hall today and celebrate with champagne and cakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e406	If you have jumped barefoot in a pine forest one summer day and are familiar with the extra spike of pine needles, then you have known the blessing of nature. If you go a summer day and come over a comb with the wind towards, and a whole wild flock turns your heads in your direction, then you have experienced the blessing of nature. And if you experience, as I did this weekend, the unmistakable sailors'sriiii, sriiii' when they return to Norway after having wisely wintered in warmer periods, then you have experienced the blessing of nature. But nature is threatened. The world is experiencing in our days the greatest extinction of species of 65 million years, and therefore it is important to call about nature. Because nature has value in itself. We who live right here and now, have no right to eradicate other species because it suits us best – with a highway, a power tower, residential development or farming facilities – right here, right now, without taking into account that our actions can destroy the life base of unique species we are responsible for, like the loon bird, the hubro, the wild. It is not that there is one decision, one act, that eradicates species, but all the small decisions that go in the wrong direction. The dumping of mining waste in Fördefjorden, for example, kills some percentage of the seabed for at least 50 years and makes it more difficult for the endangered blue lung. Secondly, nature has a value because it produces ecosystem services. We would never be able to stand here today if it wasn't for photosynthesis, which turns CO2 into air, so we can breathe. We would never have had food on the table if it wasn't for the beach wall bee and the other pollinators who make sure that plants fertilize each other and create life. Thirdly, nature has value for all of us who experience the blessing of nature. The government presented a nature diversity report that was to be Norway's action plan to stop the eradication of species before 2020, as we have committed ourselves to. It was a good professional basis for Stortinget’s treatment, but was too weak to be the action plan we thought it was necessary to stop the eradication of species in Norway. Today, we're going to have a green natural settlement here in Stortinget, and everyone in the Committee has the credit for that. I think everyone deserves commendation for having gone far. SV and I would like to go further, but I am pleased with what we are doing today in the wholesale treatment. There are several follow-up proposals that have a majority. First of all, we're going to have a historical measure of protection of 10 pst. of productive forest. That's absolutely necessary, because almost half of all endangered species live in the forest in whole or in part. Now we need to get the money into place for the escalating process. The second is that we are asking for a plan for marine protected areas. We get an action plan for seabirds. Many of them are in critical condition. The loins are one group, but also the number of the beautiful black and white lomviene is reduced by 98 pst. since the 1980s. The majority are very clear that we need more research into the development of fish stocks such as sil — tobis — and other fish species that are important for seabirds, but on which little research is done because the fishing resource is not taxed. We're going to have a plane to reduce 15 pst. of degraded ecosystems by 2025. We get quality standards for ecosystems, we get a quality standard for ants and selected cultural landscapes because abandonment and conversion in agriculture change the types of nature that many species depend on. We get the quality standard for wild rain and get an assessment of whether several species should get it. We get swift protection decisions so that Lofoten, Raet and Jomfruland can become national parks. We get management plans for the marine areas, and we get a regular update in the Storting every four years, and that's good. And we get an order for the government to provide updates to the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. There are even more major comments that give clear leadership and give the Minister for Climate and Environment extra shots when the discussions are to be taken internally into the government – and wonder if he needs it. We also have real political disagreements here. A large minority want a new national park plan, but the government won't even complete the old one. We disagree on the priority of species, and I want to spend some time on it. The Committee agrees that the number of species to be covered by the protection method of priority species should be significantly increased, and that is good, because so far the government has only prioritised species with which the red-green government started its work. The government commits to prioritizing species that are highly or critically endangered and for which Norway has a specific responsibility. It seems logical, but there is a reactive input to where the effort should be inserted. We believe it would also be natural to use the protection method as a priority species as a precautionary way of doing this. Many deserve to be thanked. I would like to thank all those environmental organisations and professionals who have contributed to producing the 33 proposals for nature, many of which are being adopted today. Then I take up the suggestions where SV is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e432	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e435	Spring is the time for confirmations and the time to find good quotes from well-known men that the confirmations will get on the way. During this annual exercise, I found a quote from Oscar Wilde that made me stop a little bit: when people agree with me, I usually have a feeling that I have to be wrong. There may be a lot of people sitting with this feeling in the room today, even though the article from the Workers' Party put it a little bit into place, because there are many common comments and joint proposals after the committee's discussion of the big message "Nature for Life" – and I think it's due to more facts. The case rapporteur has done a good job of bringing together the various proposals in the case, and for that he deserves praise, but not least all the parties have been prepared to find agreed proposals instead of going into their primary position in all contexts. The Government has also provided a good basis for the Committee's work through the Single European Act. The main strategy is sustainable natural management which ensures that the sum of all activities or uses takes place in a way that keeps Norwegian ecosystems as good as possible over time. The main action is action on threatened nature and the preservation of a representative sample of Norwegian nature, and I would like to add that knowledge is absolutely necessary as a basis for good management and choice of measures to achieve national and international objectives. I think everyone agrees with the strategy, the main thrust and the need for knowledge, and that has been the way forward on which the Committee has spent time and effort. The right is well pleased that an overall committee states that policy should be based on trust in local communities and individuals and that active use of nature creates respect for protection. Right-wing policies are also based on administrative responsibility, and we are going to leave nature in at least equal condition to the next generation. Local right of access and diversity of private ownership contribute to the sustainable management of natural resources within a national legal framework. Property rights are fundamental and landowners make a significant contribution to the conservation and management of cultural landscapes, forests and protected nature. There need be no conflict between use and protection. In fact, use can be the best protection in many contexts. It will take too long to go into all the proposals that are being promoted, but I want to mention someone, who will get a majority here today, and spend time on them. One proposal is that the Stortinget asks the Government to revise the management plans for our marine areas every 12 years and update them every four years. It involves a full revision of one plan and an update of the other two during each major period. This is a sensible approach that the Committee has agreed on. Another area in which the Committee has taken offensive action is the development of quality standards. Such standards could be a good tool for achieving good management quality, and the government is currently receiving an order from Stortinget to assess quality standards for ecosystems, to provide quality standards for bogs and to develop a quality standard for wild bogs. Furthermore, the Stortinget government is also asking to assess the quality standard for other selected species. Right-wing believe that the use of facts-based knowledge can be a good tool in some areas and for some selected species. And just knowledge is an area where this big message takes a lot of time, and which the committee has also followed up in its treatment. Many of the decisions affecting nature are not adopted here in this Chamber, but through the exercise of authority in various departments, counties and municipalities. They must be provided with sufficient expertise, but they must also have a data base to enable them to make the right decisions. Therefore, the proposal to strengthen the work of the ecological base map for Norway on habitat types, species and landscape types is one of the most important decisions we are making today. So finally some words about the goal of the long-term protection of the public owned forest and the voluntary protection of private time forests that are being adopted today. It was the former Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Brende, who introduced the voluntary protection system, and it has been very successful, with better progress for forest protection and less conflicts than before, and it provides high-quality protection. On the right, there are no problems with the continuation of a successful scheme and would stress that the proposal still involves full voluntary action towards the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e461	The Nature Diversity Act provides a good basis for most of life on earth. Sustainable use of natural ecosystems is a prerequisite for the future. The terrestrial and marine ecosystems have a natural production that we can harvest. Working ecosystems provide both space for natural growth and food and natural experiences for humans. In contrast to many other countries, Norway has many characteristics that make our nature unique. We are a country far north, we have a long-distance coast, a great influence on the Gulf Stream and a highly alternating topography. We have large sea areas, lowlands, high mountains, lakes, moors and cultural landscapes. In addition, we have a rich plant and animal life and a wide range of forests. So far, most people in this room agree. But there are probably a lot of different opinions about how to enforce and practice the Nature Diversity Act. Because, while knowledge-based management is at the heart of it, there are different perceptions of what benefits society and nature can bring in both the short and the long term. The point of progress is of the opinion that land plans and mapping at different levels are of particular importance. In particular, land-use planning and monitoring will enable us to implement the necessary projects and build infrastructure in an efficient way that also preserves nature. Priority must be given to local and national needs for spatial knowledge and plans. But it is also such that protection and peace can be negative in many municipalities. Therefore, I am pleased that there is a majority who believe that the need for possible new national parks in addition to those established will not be of such a scale that there is a need for a new national park plan. It is also a bit typical that both the SV and the Environment Party The Greens are promoting large national parks in Finnmark. And it is not only in Norway and Finland that they want new national parks, but now Finland must also be included in their plans. It would probably be almost too much to ask about how their attitude and respect for local democracy and not least minorities are, because the large, large majority of the population in Finnmark are totally opposed to this. In many municipalities in Finland, the situation is such that the area which is a national park, or bound up with other restrictions, is 70 pst., or more than 70 pst. In addition, there are limitations that the reindeer industry is seizing. It is very difficult for many municipalities to plan residential areas, industrial areas, etc., as the area is already allocated to national parks or other forms of protection. It is therefore important to balance this in a way that does not prevent municipalities from developing. I am pleased that the government has removed the plan for the extension of the Upper Anarjokhi National Park and the establishment of the Goahteluoppal National Park between Karasjok and Kautokeino. Here there was great Sami and local resistance to both projects, and it should be a condition that local democracy is heard and taken seriously by plans to expand or establish new national parks. As I see it, Norway is well equipped to take care of the various ecological systems today and for the future. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the situation in many other countries. Natural diversity is and will become important to our nation in the future. We must never forget that this is being practiced in a good way when, while maintaining our ecosystems, we have communities that can evolve to the best of our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e478	It is essential in all policies to be aware of the consequences of the decisions before they are taken. Unfortunately, there was a period in the construction of industry and the construction of the industrialised society that it was not. Waste materials were released and land was built without any significant thought of nature's resilience and nature's coherence. Fortunately, that time is over. Of course, there are still provisions that can be criticised, but no batches no longer reject the environmental argument as immaterial. Now that we are dealing with the big picture of natural diversity, it is essential, because it is a prerequisite in all planning and in all decisions, that diversity in nature has a intrinsic value and a utility to be taken into account. In addition, it gives us experiences and enriches the quality of life. I'm glad that an overall committee is doing this. So to some concrete things. The Committee has agreed on a concrete objective for forest protection. That's good. But I want to add that it is very important that we go on the line that has been going on for a few years, with cooperation with the forest industry on voluntary protection. It has given a new future and positiveness around forest protection, which is in everyone's interest. We also have to recognise that the forest industry has become good at showing environmental concerns. In order to achieve a representative protection of all natural habitats, more forest areas should be protected, but we are opposed to proposals that seek to combine voluntary protection with compulsory protection, such as the automatic conservation of forests over 160 years. We must not turn to a well-functioning voluntary system and risk its breakdown. Stakeholders must be able to expect predictability from politicians. The Christian People's Party has proposed several times to reform the compensation arrangements so that forest owners can choose between a one-off and annual compensation based on forest growth and what could have been of income if the area had not been protected. It would distribute costs, thus enabling a faster rate of protection, while ensuring a level playing field for the property also in the future – good nature protection policy, good agricultural policy and good rural policy at once. It's a shame that no more are with us on this political arena. So at sea. One of the proposals I would like to highlight in particular is: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for marine protection areas and to return to Stortinget on a case to this effect.’ As a port, we have a special responsibility to manage, protect the vulnerable and protect it representatively. We make a lot of money in our marine areas, but we also have to manage them in a long-term perspective. We have generally not addressed so many species-specific proposals and comments, as we believe that the administration is better able to assess this and bring initiative to the legislator. Knowledge gap by nature is something we have prioritised in several government budgets. It is immeasurably important that we provide continuity and up-to-date knowledge to manage natural diversity responsibly. This also applies internationally. Knowing that nature considerations can soon be sacrificed in poor countries, we are behind a proposal for a separate assistance programme for this. However, it should be said that Norwegian assistance already contributes to the preservation of nature in several areas. An overall committee points to the climate and forest initiative, and I hope that we will never have to fight again against proposed cuts in the state budget on something where Norway has established a lead role. We understand that there are proposals for planning guidelines, own legal bodies that ensure natural and environmental considerations, etc. However, we are opposed to such proposals, because we believe that it must be anchored in local self-government, given the idea that decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. – Then I get to continue my post for a three minute period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e502	The President also assumes that the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e505	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e510	Then the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide has taken up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e514	A good policy of natural diversity must provide a necessary balance between the protection and use of nature, between expert fields and local knowledge, between central mandates and local administration. Cooperation and balance are essential if the work of the well-functioning ecosystem is to gain the confidence and understanding and digestion of more than biologists and environmental movements. Therefore, the objective must be to ensure both the protection and sustainable use of nature. We must not allow reservation thinking to control the nature diversity work, but we need to combine protection and conservation with sustainable use and management. Significant areas have already been protected in Norway. No new, comprehensive protection should be required, in the opinion of the Centre Party. The derogation is the marine sector, where the Centre Party considers that this is the basis for requesting a plan for marine protection areas and an action plan to improve the situation of seabirds. The Central Party also wants an updated management plan for the Norwegian Sea submitted during the current major period. In the case of forest protection, the Centre Party believes that the situation has improved significantly in the last twenty years. There is much more so-called old forest in Norway today than it was twenty years ago. There has become more area of old forest, more dead wood, more coarse, old trees and more deciduous forest in Norway. Forestry deserves praise for the job that each forester has done to contribute to increasing the number of species and larger populations of species in the forest. Forestry deserves praise for the work on environmental certification that has been carried out. The center part doesn't seem to have any reason to agree to set fixed dimensions of 10 pst. for the protection of productive forests and the prohibition of logging in so-called old forests. Nor do we see any reason to impose any obligation to notify private landowners of the stallion in their own forest. I have to say that I am most surprised that parties like the Right and the Advance Party can participate in a 10 pst measure. the protection of the forest and strong bindings relating to private forest owners and private ownership. From a climate point of view, if we use the forest, it will be more beneficial than if we protect it. It seems to be being denied by several parties in this room -- I see it now when I look beyond -- but it has been confirmed quite recently in a study conducted by the Environment Directorate and the Agriculture Directorate, that this is the case. Therefore, biodiversity considerations must also be balanced against the climate perspective. That means that we should focus on continuing voluntary forest protection and not imposing new restrictions, and then we have to put the forest to work on climate change. The centre party also sees no need to launch new, large-scale plans for national parks now. We've already established a number of parks, and more are at work. The government is asking the government to complete that work. In this regard, I would strongly urge the Council of State to take into account the comments made by the municipality of Kragerø regarding the establishment of the Jomfruland National Park. They have asked that one take into account that it is actually a cultural landscape, and that it is dependent on care and grazing to be cared for. They have also expressed the wish for a local representation in the administration of the National Park. I think taking that kind of comment will be absolutely necessary to get the acceptance that is needed about this national park. It's not in an uninhabited area -- it's a living local environment. Nearly one third of the diversity of species in Norwegian nature depends on a living cultural landscape. Then we're not just talking about selected cultural landscapes where there's money for switching and care, we're talking about the common cultural landscape that is completely dependent on livestock farming and grazing. It may seem to me that someone in the environmental movement believes that Norwegian agriculture has no role to play in it. They have to go further into the country with that in case. The vast majority of dairy cows, cattle, sheep and lamb in Norway spend most of the summertime outdoors doing that job for the diversity of species in the cultural landscape. It's not just the organic farmers who do it. Here we are talking about the whole of Norwegian agriculture. That is why we also need to talk about agriculture when we talk about cultural landscapes. It is therefore also necessary to address barriers such as predatory policies, the decline in active livestock farming and the protection of the marine environment if the diversity of species in the cultural landscape is to be taken into account. As far as local government is concerned, we are pleased that an overall committee underlines the central role of municipalities in land management and therefore also in the work on natural diversity. The centre party cannot see that there is any basis for setting state guidelines for the municipalities in this work. With that, I'd like to raise the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e533	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e536	I want to do as many others do and thank the entire Committee for the work on this nature diversity communication, which – and I would like to say that to the Council of State – I seem to have got a little less positive publicity than it really deserves. There are many positive measures in the communication itself, but together with the decisions taken by the Committee and which there is a broad majority behind it, it becomes a very good whole. After all, the notification was initiated on the initiative of the four civil parties, while at the same time responding to Norway’s commitments under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. I think I would particularly like to thank the Council of State for its willingness, when it has been difficult, to look at solutions that could get a wider majority in the Committee. Because there is no doubt that the broad majority we now have is, to a large extent, also part of the fact that the government parties have been willing to look at and find solutions, which I think is very good. The most important thing here might be that we now get a goal of protecting 10 pst. of the Norwegian forest. I see no contrast between that and that of appreciating the rose that the foresters deserve to better care for their forest, which is what the Senterparte points out. That's exactly what we have to do. We have to be able to run the forest well and maintain normal biodiversity while at the same time being able to shut down 10 pst. of the forest for protection. It's precisely the whole thing that's the responsibility of Storting, and it's our responsibility to set processes in motion to do it. No one opposes, or doubts, the fact that voluntary forest protection is a central part of achieving this objective. Then I think in this case we're taking a big step forward from Stortinget's side to initiate processes for better protection of our marine and marine areas. Here are several decisions – both that we are asking for a plan for marine protection areas, that this should come as a matter for the Stortinget, and that we have now reached an agreement, where we have had a disagreement, on how the Stortinget should deal with the management plans for our sea areas: that all three areas, whether the Norwegian Sea, the Barents Sea or the North Sea, should enter the Stortingen in every single major period, so that we can make the necessary adjustments as we develop and take care of these major sea areas. That is a disagreement, but on the left, we also believe it is important that we get the Norwegian Sea's management plan quite quickly. There it is made a good professional basis, and there is a need to look at it, among other things. for those fields that are not mentioned here, and what goes on marine littering, as there is a matter of later today. Not least, we are now starting to develop an action plan to improve the situation of our seabirds, where many have a critical decline in the populations. There are many suggestions here. We have the quality standard for wild rain, and we're stressing that we need quality standards for several species. We also stress that we need more priority species. It has not been properly adopted, and it should not be, it should be a technical assessment, but there is much that has been pointed out by the Committee, which will be important in the years to come. I also think it is important that we say that we should have several selected cultural landscapes, because I agree with the Central Party that it is in general agriculture that it is important that we have good arrangements to care for the cultural landscape, but at the same time it is difficult to have enough resources to really do the best areas. An additional resource needs to be added, and priority cultural landscapes are important to get more of them. I'll end it. This is a day when you promote what you agree on. We are taking a big step forward with this message of natural diversity and the decisions we are now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e551	Today, we are debating one of the most important issues in this great age period, because in the work on natural diversity, we are making decisions that have consequences for all future generations. In most other areas, it is possible to change, correct the wrong steps and set out a new course, but a species that was eradicated today will not return tomorrow no matter what we do. For every species that disappears, biodiversity on earth becomes a little bit poorer. Today, this extinction occurs at a rate that is more than a thousand times higher than what is natural. The main reason is that we humans don't take into account that we share the earth with millions of other species, and that we still haven't realized that we ourselves depend on this diversity to create a safe and stable future for ourselves as well. Until 50 years ago, people thought that nature was infinite and invulnerable, but over the last few decades, it has gradually been realized that living on a limited planet is a demanding art. Although we have more knowledge than ever, the heavy trends are still pointing the wrong way globally. Earth's resources are increasing, the loss of species is increasing, global warming is accelerating. Adapting to the ecological framework will therefore require intelligence, innovation and willpower. Unfortunately, the government has weakened the protection of Norwegian nature, and let me mention some examples: The government has asked the county council to remain silent when local government permits major natural interference. The government is changing planning and construction processes to reduce the number of objections to environmental issues. The government weakens the Environment Directorate, which is supposed to be the backbone of the knowledge-based administration of Norwegian nature. The government has given a clear signal for pleasure driving with snowmobiles in Norwegian nature. The government has shifted responsibility for land management from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Minister of Modernisation Sanner. The number of cases where the government stops unacceptable natural interference at department level is reduced by 75 pst. in a few years, according to our numbers. That's a long list. This policy is a permanent one. Let me give you a few examples: in the untouched mountain areas of Vassfaret in Buskerud, we can get 1,800 new cabins. At the Tyrif soil, the government will build the motorway across one of Norway's most species-rich wetlands. In West Town, Search and Kristiansand, and in many other places, the food soil is built down without intervention by the government. The Government's communication on biodiversity does not change this trend, but we nevertheless believe that there has been considerable progress and that there are many points of light after this committee reading. The case rapporteur, Eidsvoll Holmås, has done an impressive preparatory work in collaboration with professionals and environmental movements. All batches have shown their willingness to take action during the Stortinget treatment – including the government parties. It's great that we've got a measure of protection of 10 pst. Of the forest, it's great with an action plan for seabirds, and there's a lot of examples that we've taken some steps forward. But the turning point for Norwegian nature protection is not yet clear. Today, the Greens present a number of proposals – partly with other parties – that do not receive a majority: it is proposed to set their own objective of increasing the proportion of uninterventional nature in Norway; we propose to strengthen efforts to establish several large interconnected national parks; and we propose to restore the natural and experience values in the main open-air areas around the major cities – to the delight of hundreds of thousands of people who use this nature every day. The common denominator of our proposals is that Norwegian nature protection must go from a defensive to an offensive strategy. We're not just going to stop the loss and destruction, we're going to start the restoration of lost natural values. It's not just the Green Party that says this, it's actually just how we can stop the loss of species. This is also necessary to meet our international obligations to restore parts of our degraded ecosystems. I hope that the important achievements we have received in the course of the process in Stortinget are the beginning of a change of pace for Norwegian nature, and I will end by addressing the proposals that the Greens are on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e591	The representative Knut Falk Qvigstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e594	It's been 15 years since we last had a globalization of natural diversity policy in its entirety. I would like to thank the Committee on Energy and the Environment for a thorough and good work on the examination of the communication. The communication and its treatment provide a good basis for long-term work to take care of Norwegian nature, and to achieve our national and international objectives for natural diversity. Fortunately, the situation of natural diversity in Norway is in many ways more positive than in other countries. The nature index of forest shows a weakly increasing trend. Increased efforts for forest protection and forest owners' disposal of key forest biotopes contribute to improving the state of Norwegian forests. The state of rivers and lakes is too bad in many places. All the water regions of the country have drawn up water management plans, as we are obliged to do under the EU Water Directive. We are now reviewing all these to ensure that they provide adequate environmental improvement and a proper distribution of measures between sectors and regions. Our ecosystems are to be used sustainably. But it's not given that everyone has the same perception of where the limit of sustainability really goes. The Communication therefore warns the government that clear technical criteria should be established as to what good status means in the various ecosystems. The government will then develop administrative targets based on this subject base. The Communication presents tailor-made solutions for the different ecosystems. One example is the system of management plans for Norwegian sea areas. I see that a joint committee has come up with a good solution for updating and revising the marine management plans. As regards the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, the Government considered that no update was needed now. I note that the majority of the committee still wants it, and I will ensure that it does. The government will ensure that endangered species and habitat types do not disappear from Norwegian nature. I notice that the minority proposals in the vote point to many individual species or habitat types that may be candidates for prioritisation or selection. This is what we are taking with us in the further work on the development of technical bases for species and habitat types in line with the strategy set out in the Communication. It is positive that the Committee highlights the importance of knowledge-based management by nature. An ecological base map, regular updates of the Art Database's Red List and Black List, and the monitoring of Norwegian nature are important elements in this. We're going to keep a representative sample of Norwegian nature. Governments and cooperation parties have already given forest protection a major boost in recent years. I'm glad that all the parties – with the exception of the Center Party – have gathered around a long-term goal of protecting 10 pst. of the forest. It is important that private forest owners participate in this promise through good cooperation on voluntary forest protection. We will follow up Storting's expectations of a plan for further work on marine protection. Loss of natural diversity is also a global challenge. The 2050 vision of the 7th EU Environment Action Programme is to live well within the ecological boundaries of the planet. This will require the production of goods and services with lower greenhouse gas emissions, material use and pressures on natural diversity. On Wednesday, I'm going to Nairobi to attend the United Nations Environment Assembly. There I would particularly like to follow up on issues relating to marine pollution and microplastics, which means much to the natural diversity of the seas, and where Norway has taken a leading role. And I'll follow up on the work to secure the world's pollinating insects. International cooperation is essential to address environmental challenges, and Norway will continue its active participation in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e618	There are many things I could pick up, including: the right-hand and right-hand ownership lots are in favour of the protection of 10 pst. of the forest. I'm going to address a very specific issue with the Council of State instead, and that's what I was about to address in my post, namely the establishment of the Virgin Land National Park, which is now going to be decided by the government. The local government in Kragerø discussed it in February this year and reached a unanimous decision with a few important moments. One is that the community must be represented in the various bodies linked to the National Parks Board and that a landowner-controlled management of the protection area, if any, is provided. The second is the fact that the cultural landscape of Jumfruland must also be preserved, i.e. traditional agriculture – closed, grazing and forest must be allowed to be maintained within the national park. How will the Council of State follow up this unanimous decision of the City Council of Kragerø?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e625	We assume that setting up national parks requires and achieve better results if you have local consensus. However, it shall not be at the expense of the requirements which must be imposed on the quality of national parks. The proposals for the creation of national parks in Jumfruland and Raet are well under way. We follow there the progress plan that was made in 2012. This means that protection decisions will be taken for these national parks in the autumn of 2016. The proposal for the Virgin Land National Park is now being clarified in the Environment Directorate and will be sent to the Department for Final Treatment – probably before the summer. We're going to naturally evaluate the clear local input that's come in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e630	Let me thank the Council of State for a good article. I think it is easy to join in all that was said in the Minister's posts. I was also happy to hear the concrete answer to the question from Marit Arnstad when it was time for the decision on the National Park. I suspect that the minister is well pleased with many of the decisions taken in the Stortinget today. There is probably only a call for the Minister to continue to present issues to the Storting, and then the bulk of the population will help him to make environmental policy in Norway stronger. My question is about forest protection. Today, the size of the population makes a clear decision – a principle decision that brings together a very broad majority in the United Kingdom. My question to the Council of State is whether he can say anything about what kind of timetable he thinks is realistic. How long will it take, he thinks, to achieve the goal of protecting 10 pst. by the forest, and does he agree that this requires increased appropriations from the state budget in relation to what we have seen in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e639	Let me say that I am very pleased with the decision taken on forest protection, and I must also stress that voluntary forest protection is a methodology that has been successful and respects the interests of landowners – and ownership, in order to give a response to someone other than the replicator. It is quite obvious that voluntary forest protection must be successful, and the instrument must be the money for this. There, the government, along with the cooperation parties, has increased the pace of forest protection. It is important to specify an objective, implementation in practice depends naturally enough on the means. In the three budgets under this government – in interaction with the cooperation parties – a total of 1,046 million has been committed. kr on forest protection. It's more than twice as much as under the previous government, so we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e647	I really don't think I got an answer to my question. My question was whether you could say anything about the time horizon. How long does the Council of State want to decide that it will take to achieve its goal today? I have to add that in these brawls about what the government has done for forest protection, it's a huge majority that's going to have that profit. In their first government budget, which they submitted in 2014, the government proposed to cut two thirds of forest protection – that is what the government wanted. Fortunately, Tine Sundtoft, the predecessor of the Council of State, did not get through to it. But it is not the Right Party and the Advance Party that shall have the merit, it is the opposite of the Left Party and the Christian Party that shall have. That's why it's a very important question if the Council of State now believes that this is a marshall to increase the appropriations, and in that way provide him with dragon help against Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e654	I underlined that it is the government, along with the cooperation parties, that has been responsible for increasing the pace of forest protection, and it is a line that this 10 pst. goal will require us to continue. What happens in the budgets from year to year depends on concrete priorities in the Grand Duchy from year to year and what the government finds room for the budget framework. But it is quite clear that the 10 p.m. target, which now has a broad agreement in the Stortinget, is an important concreteisation. There is a further improvement in the nature diversity communication, and it will make natural expectations that the increased effort on forest protection will continue in the coming years. When you want to reach the 10 pst. goal, I don't think there's any reason to wonder about it. It is also true that the bulk of population has not set any time for achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e661	The left is also very satisfied with the 10 pst. goal of forest protection, and it is true that the implementation of it will be much about funds in the state budget for voluntary forest protection, a system that works well. But the state is also a forest owner, and the bourgeois parties have agreed in the budget for this year to review the areas of State Forest in order to look at new areas of protection. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think it's natural, when that order goes to Statskog, that State Forest looks up its forest areas against the protection of 10 p.m. of the forest that we are now adopting, so that State Forest can then assess what their natural share in such a measure is?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e668	It is a very clear decision and a clearly informed Stortinget gives in this setting, with a measure of protection of 10 pst. of the forest area. Given that, as the representative of Elvestuen says, voluntary protection of private owned forest and the protection of forest areas owned by State Forest, which are the main instruments, this will also have to be taken further by State Forest, where the assessment of which state forest areas are natural for protection must address this 10 p.m. target. Once again, what consequences it will have in years to come is too early to say, but this goal is a very clear marshall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e675	I'll come back to forest protection a little later, in a later article. I am very pleased with – and I am very pleased that the Council of State is also very pleased with – that we have set this 10 pst. goal. Everyone agrees that it should mainly be achieved through different forms of voluntary protection. But, as I said, I'll come back to that. But I have one question: there are some who have tried to raise doubts about whether this protection measure is about productive forest, or whether unproductive forest should also be taken into account. The voluntary protection implemented applies mainly to productive forests. That is what we count and what the Environment Directorate counts on its side. I just want to ask the state council to help clear all doubts of the way: when we talk about a 10 pst.-target for forest protection, it's the productive forest we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e682	In the case of Aichi target 11 on forest, it is formulated so that it includes all forest, including unproductive forest. That is why, from the Norwegian side, in reporting on this target, we report figures for both total forest area and productive forest, and that is what we have stated in the report. But then we have to distinguish between what we report internationally and what is emphasised in practical Norwegian forest protection. There is no doubt that the productive forest is clearly most important for the natural diversity. Nor is there any doubt that the productive forest is clearly under-represented in forest protection so far. So from a professional point of view, it's important that in national forest protection work, we have a strong focus on the productive forest. This applies even if the target now being set is a measure for the protection of the total forested area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e689	Protection of land is to take areas out of production. That's not my definition, it's former Minister of Agriculture Johan C. The definition of the bulb. What will then be the question is the basis for taking areas out of production. The centre batch states that there should be a scientific basis, it should be verifiable, and there should be open registrations, so that we can ensure priority species and endangered habitat types – that is, a clear scientific basis, clear purpose. Does the Council agree that there is the knowledge-based protection to be used and that there is overall percentage protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e696	With a percentage of forest protection, we're going to relate to a percentage. However, it is also clear that the choice of forest for protection requires a high level of emphasis on the basis of knowledge and the choice of areas that are important for natural diversity. Norway is at international level. We've protected 2.9 pst. of the productive forest. It's relatively low compared to many others. This is why there is a lot of work both on voluntary protection and on the protection of forest areas owned by State forest. It is done on a professional basis, and it is an approach we want to pursue – also with a percentage point in the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e703	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e708	The nature diversity message is large and comprehensive and intervenes in many different sectors and industries. That's why it's also very good that there's a big, cross-political consensus about the big lines in the message. But it is also not unexpected that there are political dividing lines as to how we want to achieve different goals. Our task is to manage nature so that the natural diversity is preserved and the ecosystem is handed over in at least as good a condition as when we took over. Often proper use can be the best form of protection. Several have highlighted increased protection of forests as one of the main measures of the Communication. It is important that long-term objectives are set in order to create predictability for both industry and managers. The scheme of voluntary protection of forests has been very successful, and that is the scheme we are now building on. At the same time, it will be important to give priority to those areas that provide the best protection for biotopes and ecosystems. We must have a clear objective of quality and content when selecting areas for protection. The major challenge today is that too much productive forest is not harvested and used for the best for ecosystem, climate and social economy. I am also very pleased that the majority in Stortinget has chosen to look at the management of the wild game in a broader perspective than just increasing the conflict with the farming industry. Our aim must be to continue to have growth and sustainable development in the breeding industry, while at the same time facilitating better conditions for the wild species. The size has previously adopted strict requirements for the aquaculture industry in the notification of aquaculture, and it is working hard in many areas to increase sustainability in the industry. At the same time, we need to find measures that allow us to get better conditions for the wild axis of our many salmon rivers. The Norwegian Villaksvervaltung Foundation has carried out a very successful project, among other things. in the valley of Naustdal in Sogn and Fjordane. Good cooperation between owners, salmon fishermen, the farming industry and the county has helped to increase the size of fish in rivers. Salmon fishing is a very important complementary activity for many and not least a very important recreational activity for even more. A sustainable use that nature is perhaps the most important action we take to take care of diversity and values, to the joy and benefit both today and for the future. I agree with the address newspaper's commentator that last Thursday was a useful day for nature. And then today must be even better since we are actually adopting a new message for the natural diversity for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e721	Knowledge and respect for natural diversity are important and it is important to be aware of the main reasons for the changes in natural diversity. It is climate that is the main reason for the changes in natural diversity – the growing conditions, the temperature. We see it with great consequences in the mountains today. The growth of plants is changing enormously due to changes in climate, and the spread of animals in the same way. The second main reason is how we use the land, how we operate our agriculture. We have a Norwegian tradition that we have outland and not wilderness. We have a forestry where one uses forests. We have an agriculture where one uses land. Altogether, it's agriculture. What has been the Norwegian tradition is that one has used the land to a much greater extent than other countries. That's why we also have a different tradition of what we're talking about here. We're in a situation where you have to live more of the photosynthesis, that is. that we need to get more carbon from renewable natural resources, land and fisheries and less from fossil sources. It is therefore important that the use of land is done on a knowledge-based basis. If one is going to protect areas, it's right to take the areas out of production, but then we have to have a clear purpose, and that has to be scientific. And when you have a clear purpose, you can have a management plan that can be followed up, and it can be followed up by people from an eternity perspective, because this is very demanding. The representative of Elvestuen knows a little about the management of emeralds – an old form of operation. Unbelievable knowledge is required to maintain this ancient form of operation, to take care of it. It's happening to a very small extent today. What's sad is that we're now going in for percentages. Where is the representative of Gundersen or the representative of Werp from the Right today? They're gone, and there's no coincidence. In the view of the Center Party, it's a basic mistake to run on a percentage protection and hit the chest and say that one is so and so good, instead of having a scientifically based protection, where one knows what a driver is doing. One must know what a driver is doing – in this area as in other areas. It's sad that the Progress Party and the Right have left this and joined in on percentage protection. It's sad. I'm proud that we're going to take care of the rare species. If we get the rare species to the owners, we get respect for it, and a natural one takes care of it. If the protection is based on sensitivity and vision, as it evolves today, you don't get respect, and then it goes bad with what really is the core, namely the security of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e743	Then I have time to thank the rapporteur for a good job. It has been very fun working on this matter in the committee, and it has been a teaching matter for me personally. I ended my main post by saying something about why the Christian People's Party is going against the planning guideline and its own judicial body. That's because we think it has to be anchored locally. Having said that, let me also add that strengthening the environmental competence and capacity of municipalities must be a key objective of the forthcoming municipal reform. We will also highlight the need for a supplementary national park plan to ensure that what remains for a representative sample of Norwegian nature to be properly protected. Here we have done a great job, and there is still one last and quality assurance round. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of comprehensive and up-to-date management plans for the sea areas. If we are to ensure sound management, these must be updated regularly. I would particularly like to highlight the areas around Svalbard – areas that have previously been covered with ice. Adequate knowledge must be ensured prior to the granting of authorisations for activities in these areas. Until such knowledge is acquired, fishing and, in particular, trawling must also be permitted in these areas. With this big message, we have hopefully put in place important steps for responsible natural management for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e756	Thank you for a constructive and good debate, and thank you for the reply from the Council of State. I have two things I want to record. One is that it would be all-right if the Council of State could discuss with me the objections I had to the way the government is now putting up with – which is supported by the majority of the Grand Council – relating to using the protection of priority species. As I mentioned in my article, priority is given to species that are highly or critically endangered and for which Norway has a specific responsibility. This seems logical, but it is too restrictive, because instead of preventing a species from being critically threatened, waiting for it to be really difficult to save, waiting to put the protection method into practice as a priority species. Take the example of Lomvien, which I was in my post, which has fallen by 98 pst. down since the 1980s. It should have been prioritised at an earlier time, so that we had gained knowledge of the cause of the decline and then had known what to do to save it. Now it's 2 pst. again, and we don't know exactly what it takes to save it for the future. The hare is almost threatened, the caterpillar is almost threatened – it is quite common species that are on their way down. That's what we should consider prioritizing them, and here I would encourage the government not to think squarely, but to use the protection method priority species a little bit more discretionarily than the message and the setting add up. I would also like to point out that I think it is foolish that during the treatment we had, we ended up in a situation of the good notions of double marking of farmed salmon, where there are only a few parties, a small minority, who still want it, despite the fact that the industry in its time promised just that it would be easy to look at this. It was the red-green government that was tough on the farming industry, and they promised that they would follow up. But it ended up being able to actively lobby against big business politicians and the parties, and preventing us from getting a good decision on this. I also want to promote research. There is too little research on ecosystems. The majority think it's okay enough as we have today, but we think it should be a programme of its own. Then finally to forest protection. I think the state council is creating uncertainty about what our 10 pst. goal should actually be, because it's clear that the sum of unproductive and productive forests is much, much greater than the sum of the productive forests. Nevertheless, the Council of State says 10 pst. of the total forest mass now to be included, and only the productive forest to be supported — voluntary protection — to be protected. How much forest is there really the council now realizes that Stortinget says we're going to protect?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e771	During this work, I have often wondered what it really is that the Right Party and the Advance Party can participate in a proposal for the protection of 10 pst. of the forest. I also see that there are not so many from the parties here today who stand up and defend it. But just like I'm interpreting the state council in the line change, he says 10 pst. is calculated from the perspective of eternity. So there's no time limit set – it could be 10 years, 50 years or 100 years. Then you have to ask yourself, if you've tricked it a little bit more and put such an eternity perspective on it, wouldn't it have been more tidy and more reindeer not to go into that type of 10 pst.- measure? Probably it makes sense to put eternity's perspective on it, because the consequence of this in a short perspective cannot be the Right and the Advance Party are familiar with. It must mean either eradicating State Forest as a business, or contributing to strong attacks on the ownership of private forest owners, and that is hardly a good right- and-right party policy. It is a fact that the old forest in Norway has increased — I have to be allowed to repeat it. It has increased from 950,000 dean in the 1990s to 2.4 million dean today. So it's not right, the description of that condition that's gotten worse over the last decades. Of course, we have to take care of the rare species; naturally, diversity is important. However, in the case of forests, both climate policy and the bioeconomy need to be balanced. It is also a fact that there was just a report that said that the use of the forest is more important in climate-related terms than the protection of the forest. Nor is it so strange that part of the forest industry, which has great hopes for bioeconomy as one of the environmental industries of the future, is now saying that this does nothing but contribute to putting the whole desire for a bioeconomy in reverse. Great uncertainty has been created by what is said today to be in the perspective of eternity – remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e787	I think I have to disagree completely with the last posts of the representative Arnstad. I really don't see any contrast between a 10 pst. goal of protecting forests and investing in bioeconomy. And there's really no contradiction to having the protection of forests, even in a climate perspective, just as we're going to use the forest better in an climate perspective. It is precisely the whole of Norway that needs to be able to develop. To the representative Lundteg: Yes, I am very aware of how much work is required to care for a machinations, and how much knowledge is needed to care for a machinations. There is no doubt that the protection we should have in Norway — and that is throughout the notification — is the knowledge-based protection. What we're doing with this message is not finishing a job. If there's something we're doing now, starting a job in a lot of areas. In the case of cultural landscapes, in the case of forests, the action plan for seabirds, etc. What we need to test in the years to come is the will we show to implement the plans and implement the policy we are now adopting. Then we must have a great deal of effort in many areas. For large parts of biodiversity it is about having a good care, a good care with good management plans for protected areas and good plans also for areas outside the protected areas — the traditional, whether agriculture or forestry. I don't see any contrast between the two. On the contrary, it is the interaction with what is happening in the protected areas, with good management plans, for clear purposes, and what is outside, which is the key to achieving and developing good work for biodiversity in Norway in the years to come. So it's absolutely right that the basic and most important thing is to do what we can to stop climate change, which creates a change that makes it difficult for very many species. But it also underlines the need for protection; good management is needed to make the species that are exposed more robust for the change that comes at some level anyway – even if we are to do what we can to reduce it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e796	Then forest protection became a rather surprising theme both from the Center Party and from SV. It might be a good idea to look at the comments on forest protection that an overall committee is behind. As regards the assessment of the inclusion of unproductive forest as part of the reporting process, the entire Committee agrees that it can do so, and that there is no evidence that overall there has been a deterioration in the situation of endangered species, the entire Committee has also abstained. In order to ensure sound management of the forest, so that resources can be extracted in a way that preserves both industry and nature, there is also an overall committee behind it. The system of voluntary forest protection, which has worked well and the increase in voluntary forest protection, has also been set up by the entire Committee. The Committee also agrees that voluntary forest protection is a trust-based scheme that relies on maintenance at the same level as before in order to ensure predictability for landowners. Actually, this is about whether voluntary protection, when you have a percentage, is not professionally considered. There I agree with the representative of Elvestuen that voluntary forest protection is both professionally thought out, and that it is according to professional judgements that the forest is protected. And we will continue to do that in the future. I see no conflict in the two things. When the Right has agreed to a long-term target of 10 pst. protection, this does not mean that we have given the boat the properness in relation to the professional assessments on which it is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e811	Language is power. The decision, in which all lots other than the Centre Party are included, states ‘10 pst. of the wooded area»; Forests are both coniferous and deciduous. In the deciduous forest we have birch, birch forest, and – I look at the representative Fredriksen from Finnmark – there are significant areas of birch forest in Finnmark. If it is the case that the areas of the black forest are included in the same way as the coniferous forest areas, then there is a different fact from that of those who understand this as there are primary areas where there is large production and good growing conditions, both soil and climatic. When we get higher temperatures, the forest pulls further north and further up the mountain. If the council believes that the forest that is usually called impediment, or unproductive, also is included, then the council must clarify it, for there is another fact, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås tried to clarify in. It'll be pretty parochial when the government parties don't define what they're talking about. How in the world should you be able to follow up a plan when you don't know exactly what you're talking about? It'll end up in the control committee in a few years, but it's not possible to hold anyone responsible for it, because someone didn't know what you were talking about. It is appropriate in relation to the media, compared to trends in time, but it is sad to experience this. The council said one would find areas that make up 10 pst of the forest area. The central party is fundamentally in disagreement with the premise. We're going to find areas that are rare, we're going to find species that are rare, and that's why we're a pusher to get money for public science work to document this. When it's documented, it's something important, something valuable, that those who own it, are going to be proud of, and thus will take care of. The culture gets ruined when one adds up to such a percentage protection, and that's pretty sad. Now it is important that we have a debate in the future, outside this room, on why it should be protected – what is the basis for protection? The representative Elvestuen knows – excellent – about the masonry, which is an elegant example of what we are facing here. There are old operating methods, which one then finds out that one will take care of in the future. The ‘cost of the shirt’ to take care of it, and what is sad, is that the Council of State does not grant money to it when it comes to practice. There's a lot of talk and very little practice, and we have to stop that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e822	I asked the Council of State to clarify, and then I felt that the Council of State only helped to create some uncertainty. Now I see that the Council of State has signed up again, so then he gets a new opportunity to clarify. I understand that the biggest thing is saying yes very clearly, is to take care of 10 pst. of the productive forest, because that's what we're supporting to protect, that's what we're spending money on. And when the Council of State and the majority of the House here say that we're just going to use voluntary protection in the time that comes, and that until the voluntary protection goes with money to protect the productive forest, it goes without saying that it's the productive forest we're talking about. There are two reasons for this, including: that the unproductive forest – i.e. in the sense of nature diversity – protects itself. It's right there, and it's not going to operate. But Per Olaf Lundtigen has a very good point: if it is now that the Council of State is going to operate a massive protection of unproductive forest in the time to come, in order to achieve this goal, in total, it is going to be very special, because I don't think any of them sitting here – neither the representatives of Finnmark nor elsewhere – are going to give a clear message to the Council of State. Now, luckily, there's room in that decision that we're making today, where everybody, except the Center Party, says, «The government asks the government to set a target for the protection of both public-owned forests and the voluntary protection of privately owned forests to 10 pst. of the wooded area.’» I expect that in the work of setting such a target – and it would have been eel-ridden if Vidar Helgesen could respond to when he expects it to be set, and when he can report back to Stortinget that now there is a target set for both the protection of public owned forest and the voluntary protection of private time forests – will explain how the council thinks this is implemented. That's what I think is the cleanest thing and what creates the least uncertainty. I have never been involved in such a good and thorough professional cooperation on a message, both with environmental organisations and professionals. I want to thank those who helped to promote the 33 proposals and arrange the fantastic seminar we had here at the Stortinget in the direction of a group: Martin Eggen, Christian Steel, Trude Myhre, Halvard Raavand, Jorunn Vallestad, Anne Breistein, Arne Nävra, Anne Sverdrup-Thygeson, Dag O. Hessen and not least Heidi Sørensen, who helped coordinate the work. Anne Sverdrup-Thygeson said something very funny, which I shall end with: what would the representation be if the diversity of species were on the Stortinget? Then the insects would be the most sovereign lot and had 43 pst. digestion. Mushrooms and low would have 18 pst. digestion, plants and bogs 12 pst. Other, smaller organisms would have 25 pst. Mammals, birds and fish would have 2 pst. –and of them, humans would only have a tiny percentage. That's why it's so important that we take our responsibility and see that, which is such a small part of the diversity of species, we can't contribute to destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e838	I will be allowed to thank you for a very good debate, which follows the good work done in the committee. To the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ last reference to the prevalence of different species, it may also be tempting to note in the discussion about the impact of species on life and death that the most important cause of death among all our species is the mosquito. I want to mention, as far as representatives Eidsvoll Holmås’ questions about priority species and selected nature type are concerned, that I am very pleased that a majority in the committee believes it is right to start by improving the status of the highly or critically endangered species, simply because it is where the condition is most critical. But that doesn't mean you can't do other things. The Environment Directorate recently sent out for consultation, for example: a proposal to prohibit winter hunting in frost, because there is a trend that is not favourable. However, in terms of the instruments, priority species and natural habitat types, it is appropriate to start with the highly or critically endangered species. So the question of forest protection. There's got to be an extraordinarily low goodwill interpretation of me to come to something other than that of course there's productive forest to be prioritized when we're going to use taxpayers' money to run forest protection. But I also owe you attention to the fact that Aichi target 11 is about all forest, and that the target of 10 pst. set here, is a total protection target. But productive forest is clearly the most important. When we are going to target budgetary resources against protection, it is quite clear that there are productive forests that are most important and on which we have to spend funds, and there are also productive forests that are under-represented in the protection. That there should be some contradiction, that the representative Lundtigen is in, between setting a percentage and keeping a quality and a professionalism in that protection, I really can't be involved. We note that the protection of natural diversity is important, and that setting a percentage and a percentage does not at all stand in the way of making the professional judgements that our various establishments make on what is to be protected first, and what criteria underpin that protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e847	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e850	Then we have at least been told that unproductive forest is not included in 10 pst. There is a lot of productive forest that is not economically useful, and that is the next issue that the Council of State has to address. But the main point I wanted to get is that the Center Party puts quality and science first. That is what is at the heart, that is what must be at the heart of the protection, that what is scientifically documented, rare and important to take care of must be protected, and then a protective plan must be established to ensure that purpose and that protection plan must ensure it for all time. What is the Riksrevision's observation so far is that the department protects a lot, but has no clear purpose and no follow-up. Slaughter ants are an excellent example of this. As long as there's no change in practice at this point, it's important to continue this discussion, so it's quality that comes before the percent. It must be future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e858	I felt again that the Council of State didn't quite clarify this very clearly, because it's clear that when you're calculating 10 pst, 10 pst is. of what a quite significant moment. That is why I gave the Council of State the opportunity to say when he expects that he can come back and report to Stortinget that now the state has operationalized the goal, now we have set a clear and clear goal for what we are to protect. I'm assuming it's 10 pst. of the productive forest. Governments stress that it is the productive forest that he is going to spend money on, and he has also received a majority in the Stortinget that there is only voluntary protection to be used in the time to come. I believe that there would be a basis for using e.g. national parks, where national protection could make sense, even if it should be local resistance — but let go. The majority say very clearly that there is voluntary protection we're going to use. But if that's the way voluntary protection is going to mean productive forest, and we're just going to use voluntary protection in time to come: when could the council say that one has reached the goal? Is that when it's 10 pst. of the productive forest protected, or when 10 pst. of total forest area protected? As I said, if the Council of State doesn't want to clear it up now, he should at least be able to clarify when he expects that the work of launching how the operational goal is to be set from the government, and come back and say when that work will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e865	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken and spoken earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e868	What's crucial when you're dealing with forest protection is that you get more protection going now, because now we're in a situation where there's 2.9 pst. You're talking here as if we're already at 10 pst. We're not near that. What is important is that the work in the state forest is started now, that we reinforce the efforts of voluntary protection, and that this will have a real meaning long before we are on the concrete 10 pst. protection. The interaction between this and proper forestry is fully possible, and it is necessary to create the more climate-friendly society that we will have in the future. So it's quite right, as Lundtigen says, that Slutt Myra is a very good example, and we're talking about the same Slutt Myra, it's in Nordmark, and it costs. The left has been willing to prioritize it, because it is the municipality of Oslo that pays for the work that must be done there, it is not the state. What we need to do is to become a lot more concerned with what we protect, and not what we protect against, and then we have to put forth the effort to take care of what we protect for. There are usually other areas than forest protection, where there is a much broader protection, and where we need to have a completely different effort in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e902	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e909	As I have said, today we have two issues that relate to plastic and its challenges in nature. This is the proposed document 8 by Rasmus Hansson of the Green Party on an international convention to limit emissions, resource use, silage and environmental damage of plastics, and a proposal by Ola Elvestuen and Ketil Kjenseth of the Left on microplastics. I am the case rapporteur for both cases, and we have decided to deal with matters together, even though they are in fact linked to two different aspects. In both cases, it is an almost unanimous committee. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and work, so that we have had an almost unanimous vote on such an important issue. Microplastics, plastic waste and plastic items that are being diverted are a serious environmental problem, and marine littering is a major part of this. Challenges related to plastics have received considerable international attention, and if we are to get rid of plastic as waste, large efforts are required at international level and good cross-border interaction. Norway has taken a leading role internationally. In 2014, Norway promoted a resolution at the first United Nations Environment Assembly on marine pollution and microplastics which was unanimously adopted. A central theme of the resolution was the development of a broad international study of best available knowledge on impacts, sources and possible measures to reduce the supply of plastic and microplastics into the sea. The result of the above-mentioned work will be presented to the Second United Nations Environment Assembly in May this year, and if I understand correctly, the Minister will be there if not too long. Norway has already submitted proposals for a new resolution with measures and, if adopted, a global consensus will already be reached on a number of concrete measures to reduce plastic and microplastics in the sea. The regulation, manufacture, use and handling of plastics is a very comprehensive theme. The knowledge base must be very good in order to ensure a good international process, which in turn could lead to any convention on plastic and microplastics. We believe that the study that is now being prepared as a result of the Norwegian resolution will be an important contribution to assessing the need for a possible convention. So a little bit more specifically linked up to microplastics: the administration of microplastics to the marine environment is worrying. The problem is comprehensive and complex and requires many measures, including both national and – not least – international. We just have to bring down the amount of plastic that ends up in nature's orbit. In addition, we need to do more to clean up existing litter. There is a need for more knowledge related to microplastics and their impact on the environment. The Directorate for the Environment is now carrying out an action analysis assessing actions aimed at different sources of microplastic pollution. Among other things, one looks at measures to reduce microplastic pollution from car tyres, road markings, emissions from laundry of textiles, measures in waste management and sewage treatment plants and measures aimed at microplastics in body and beauty products. In the light of the work done on the analysis of measures, we want to follow this up on the part of Storting. This is why we are promoting a proposal that the government should promote an action plan against microplastics after the action analysis has been carried out, i.e. that a thorough review should be carried out and that the target point should be set and that an action plan should be drawn up in order to reduce the prevalence. In the case of microplastics in body care products, there are some countries that have already adopted a ban and other countries that consider imposing a ban. In addition, the largest manufacturers of different body and beauty products are looking at their own production and have announced that they will phase out the use of microplastics in the European market in the long term. We are therefore promoting proposals in which we ask the government to make proposals with a view to banning microplastics in body care products. Finally, microplastics are also being worked on internationally through interaction with the EU and its Marine Strategy Directive. I've already been involved in the work of the United Nations, and our contribution there. There is considerable work to be done on the problems of microplastics and the marine environment, and we as a nation must continue to be a driving force for this work in the future. I therefore recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e937	Let me start by thanking the Greens and the Left for promoting the two proposals that we are discussing today, which deal with important environmental challenges. Dumping of plastics in nature and the sea is a major environmental problem both at home in Norway and internationally. That's why we need to do more both at home and out to clean up the problems and not least reduce the problems in the future. First, about microplastics. Microplastics are by no means a micro problem, it's a huge problem. As a result, tiny particles remain in the sea and enter the natural cycle. It is not often in environmental policy that I say ‘Look to the United States’, but in this case we can say so. At the turn of the year, President Obama signed a ban on microplastics in body care products. And when the United States does, it really gets something to say for the market. The producers then really get a deposit to clean up themselves. Therefore, it should be easy to do the same here at home in Norway. I am pleased that the Storting today unanimously ends up on a proposal asking the government to promote a case of banning microplastics in body care products. This is one important measure, but microplastics must meet with efforts in many areas. We know that during the year, the Directorate for the Environment will have completed an analysis of what needs to be done to reduce this problem, and today Stortinget says that we are asking that, when that analysis is ready, the government should draw up an action plan for microplastics. In the Workers' Party we have great expectations of that work. It must be ambitious both in terms of what it is to be done and in terms of concrete and measurable instruments. I hope the minister in his post can say something about the time horizon for that work. Since during the year there will be a recommendation from the Directorate, the Storting is unanimous in all areas, and – most importantly – this is a work that is really urgent, it should not take too long for the government to complete such an action plan. Although we can do a lot of things ourselves, the most important thing we do is what we do internationally. As a port, it is also in Norway’s own interest to be a driving force in the work against plastics and microplastics in the sea. Because we get problems when not other countries have good enough regulations. The Labour Party is pleased to support all the proposals made by the Minister for Climate Change and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in promoting their affairs in international forums on this subject. It is good that the Stortinget today sends an important signal to the government that the Stortinget is interested in this work, and that the Stortinget wants the government to prioritise this part of the international environmental work. The Greens are today promoting a proposal on their own that Norway should initiate an international convention. But it must not be read as if the rest of us – at least it does not apply to us in the Workers' Party – are opponents of it. On the contrary, it may be that it is a good and proper way to go, that Norway, together with other countries, should initiate such a convention, and that a convention is the right instrument to bring together the widest possible international consensus. A study is now being carried out to provide the best available knowledge on marine pollution, to which Norway has also contributed financially. It will be presented at the United Nations Second Environmental Assembly in Nairobi, which, as I understand it, starts today. It was nice to hear that the minister is going down there on Wednesday and gets to be in the final session of the United Nations Second Environmental Assembly. I hope that the Minister in his statement will be able to explain Norway's expectations for this meeting and possible outcomes for the area we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e954	When I was a young girl, and it started to be a few decades ago, I noticed on the toothpaste tube that the toothpaste I used contained small round balls of plastic -- I'll try on the word -- polymethyl methacrylate particles, I think even until it's called. I stunned this, but we didn't see them, so like most people, I didn't think about it anymore. Now we know more about the long-term effect of microplastics, and the Left should have all the credit for putting this matter on the agenda. There is a comprehensive and complex issue, which requires action at many levels, both nationally and internationally. We are pleased that the committee has gathered to want to reduce the amount of plastic that ends up in nature – both the one we see, and – not least – the one we don't see. Environmental authorities are already well under way to carry out an action analysis to maximise the effectiveness and knowledge-based implementation of measures. It is essential that national measures are implemented, while Norway is an active participant in what is being done internationally on this front. This is a global problem. It is good that several actors in cosmetics and body care on their own initiative have grasped their part of the problem complex. The United States will prohibit microplastics in ‘rinse off’ products from 2017. It is logical for Norway to do the same and the Committee has agreed to ask the government to make proposals with a view to banning microplastics in body care products. At the same time, we look forward to a concrete action plan on microplastics after the action analysis has been carried out. In rational terms, we are dealing with two plastic products at the same time today, and I want to spend the rest of my contribution on the other, namely the Greens' proposal for an international convention regulating the production, use and handling of plastics to limit emissions, resource use, pollution and environmental damage to the global ecosystem. This too is a very important matter. Norway has already promoted in 2014 a resolution on marine plastic and microplastics at the first United Nations Environment Assembly in Nairobi. We support the majority in the Committee that believes that the studies that are now being developed as a result of the Norwegian UN resolution will be an important contribution to assessing the need for a convention. With that I have explained the vote of the Christian People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e963	Occasionally, a case becomes mature enough to allow a broad majority of the majority of the population to support many common actions related to the issue. I see these two Document 8 proposals as two examples of it – and all the profits for those who chose to propose them, from both the Left and the Greens. For the sake of safety if the issues have perhaps been discussed for a long time, they probably have not received the attention they deserve, nor the political interest they deserve. But with part of what we see of movement internationally, among other things. in Sweden, which assesses a ban on microplastics, as we also see in the United States, which has been mentioned by several representatives here, as well as by investigations in several of the countries around the North Sea basin, i.e. Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands, it is quite natural that we in Norway are also taking a step further in the field of microplastics, and that an international attention has also been paid to the issue of a convention related to plastic waste and the management of plastic waste as such. I think it is positive that the Committee has gathered so widely on proposals in one area relating to microplastics, and also, I would say, has a very positive goodwill in relation to the issue of a convention and the work done, not least in Nairobi, in the future. Therefore, the Centre Party is pleased to be able to support the proposals to ban microplastics in body care products and also to promote an action plan against microplastics. We also await with excitement the discussions that are being conducted internationally regarding the issue of a plastic convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e974	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we are getting a broad majority of the proposals that have been put forward, and that the proposals are as concrete as they have become, for a issue that I do not doubt that all parties are concerned about – both in the case of marine pollution, which is getting more and more attention, both in Norway and internationally, and more specifically in the case of microplastics, which is becoming an increasingly important issue. Microplastics come from the plastic that is already lying in the ocean and is being degraded, but it also has many other sources. It comes from, among other things, car decks, and they are used in artificial grass tracks. There are many major sources of microplastics today, and what's about banning cosmetics and body care products is really just a small part of the big, total volume that turns into microplastics, and that ends up in the ocean. Most importantly, it's where we start, because it's really something that's completely unnecessary, it's allowing microplastics in body care products and cosmetics. And I'm a little bit there that when a convention in the United States, controlled by the Republicans, is able to decide that you should have a ban on microplastics, then a big deal should also be able to start a process for the same thing, and that's what we're doing here today. But the second part, which is making an action plan, is a larger task than this one. There's a lot of work going on, and that's good. What is important is that the current analysis of measures ends up in a feasible and concrete action plan. From the left hand side, we see this in the context of what we've been betting on, which is limiting marine pollution wider. We have started our own work in budgetary terms, along with the other bourgeois parties. Last year it was 7.5 million. kr that went to combat marine litter. It's a small sum compared to the big problem it is, but it's a start to get a job started. This year, this is up to 17 million. kr, and new projects are being launched, including: Fishing for Litter, who has come into this. But it is the beginning of a work to continue in the years to come that needs to be developed. The concrete measures must be taken. Today, there is a lot of support for clean-up, but there is a need for concrete measures and knowledge-based measures, which look at how to work in the future to reduce the amount of plastic in society and the amount of plastic entering the sea. As far as work is concerned internationally, it is quite natural that Norway, as a large both marine and maritime nation, should assume a responsibility and be fully in the forefront of meeting the values of the sea and combating the amount of waste – the amount of plastic – whether conventional plastics or microplastics are specific, which is the subject of this proposal. We will support the work and the majority comments on the case based on the Greens' proposal, and stress that it is important for the government to take the objective of being in the front line to put in place international agreements, which are a basis for combating plastics, in particular microplastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e987	Microplastics, plastic waste and plastic items that are emerging are a serious environmental problem that has gone under the political radar for far too long. However, as many have been involved, there is a changing trend, both in Norway and in other countries. The increased exposure to plastic pollution occurs both in the Storting and outdoors among the people most. For example, on May 7th this year the organisation Hold Norway Clean the annual Beach Cleaning Day, where several thousand people were out and cleared, and over 600 beaches were cleared. Today it is the turn of the Stortinge to do its part of the job, and we are very pleased with the impact that the representative proposal from the Left has received. It is brilliant that all parties agree that we need a ban on microplastics in cosmetics, but much more important is the presentation of an action plan against all types of contamination from microplastics. It is important to remember that emissions from cosmetics account for perhaps 4 tonnes of pollution, while emissions from car tyres account for several thousand tonnes. Only emissions from rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks are estimated to be up to 1500 tonnes. So it's an action plan that really will make the big difference in this case. I would also like to mention that the use of rubber granules on artificial grass courts is a source of concern about the potential health effects of both children and adults using these pathways. So we hope that the action plan will contain concrete measures in this area. I think that's very important. In the case of an international convention on plastic pollution, as proposed by the Greens/Greens/European Environment Party, it seems that the whole room here agrees that we need strong global instruments to deal with plastic pollution. We will, even if we do not get an impact here today, praise both the previous and the current government for much good international work in this matter. We have noticed that Norway adopted a good resolution on marine plastic trash in 2014 at the first United Nations Environment Assembly, and we have noticed that the second United Nations Environment Assembly is now starting. A new resolution on follow-up work will be discussed and, if adopted, a global consensus will be reached on a number of concrete measures to reduce plastic and microplastics in the sea. Therefore, the Greens believe it is natural that this should be followed up by Norway taking the lead in an international convention to limit emissions, resource use, congestion and environmental damage from plastics, both to land and to water. The second United Nations Environment Assembly also discusses a United Nations study on the issue, which identifies the need for a better international framework to limit plastic pollution. This study provides several arguments for an international convention. The most important thing is that there is a clear need for a more circular economic model for the value chain of plastics. This we believe should be the main thing in such a convention. As I said, we note that our proposal that the government should work for this does not get a majority today, but we note that there are very positive signals in the comments and from the other parties here today that this is something you want, at least want to work on, and something you want to assess. So we don't view this as a reluctance from the rest of the Storting, and we look forward to the continuation. Finally, I would like to address the Greens' proposal for an international convention on plastic pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1002	The representative Knut Falk Qvigstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1005	No one has the right to destroy nature's blessing with bosses, and the wealth of the sea makes it especially important to combat the plastic that ends in nature's cycles. As stated in the one representative proposal: ‘Globally, more than one million seabirds and 100000 marine mammals die annually only because of damage caused by plastic.’ In addition, it says: ‘Faithful has over 95 pst. Seabird species sea horse plastic in the stomach.» And on the other hand, «An article in Science estimates that by 2025 there will be 250 million tonnes of garbage in the world's oceans, if the litter continues at the same rate as today. A lot of this is plastic. This corresponds to one fifth of the total biomass of all the world’s major fish stocks.’» – This just to say something about the big picture here. The last time I checked, went 8 pst. of the oil for plastic production. We politicians are responsible for taking care of the sea's wealth and blessing, and it is our responsibility to provide for stricter requirements and rules that can prevent sewage, improve waste management and collection systems and further invest in mortgage schemes. We as magnification must impose, support and organize cleanup and knowledge. We need to support innovation and investment for conversion to better production processes and the circular economy. We must impose requirements on product design, producer responsibility, warranty schemes and product labelling and strengthen consumer rights. We also need to improve knowledge of adverse effects and effective action. In particular, this applies to the fight against microplastics, because there is reason to believe that more adverse effects than those we now know will be revealed. Through the examination of the two proposals for representatives that we now have, the Government is asking the Government to promote an action plan against microplastics following the implementation of the action plan for the Environment Directorate. In addition, we in Stortinget point to a measure to prevent emissions from a small source of microplastics by asking the government to make proposals with a view to banning microplastics in body care products. Although this, as many have been involved, is not the largest source of microplastics, it is entirely possible to do something about it. And as you know, the things you can do with, it's a good idea to do something with it instead of just talking about the things you don't get to do anything with. However, for the next action plan, it is important for the government to provide measures related to all sources of microplastics emissions. We in SV expect the government to come up with measures to prevent emissions from wear from car tyres, emissions from boats and ships and from washing synthetic textiles. In particular, it is important that the action plan is followed by effective measures. We need requirements, and we need economic instruments – taxes and other economic instruments – to address the problem of pollution from plastics, based on the idea that the polluter pays. We do not have a real plastic charge today. We should have. I would like to hear from the Council of State what measures they intend to take to fill the new action plan. I have some input: In several State budgets, SV has proposed the creation of a new environmental competence programme for labour and trade in goods. This allows all actors in the trade in goods, both employers and employees, to participate in important environmental work and to obtain good return arrangements. Increasing the knowledge of those who actually sell products could be an important contribution to environmentally friendly consumer behaviour – not only in the plastic sector but also in combating greenhouse gas emissions and taking care of natural diversity. The second thing we have proposed is to increase support for local environmental exposures that can help to increase local efforts against marine pollution. We have proposed a specific increase in the allocation for the clean-up of marine pollution through schemes in the Environment Directorate. Action also in the form of public funds must be provided if we are to have a chance to do something about this problem. So a word about the convention at the end: we're not against a convention being a proper tool. But a convention is a crazy long canvas to fade. We believe it is important to listen to the work that is now being done at the UN's second environmental meeting. I myself agreed to set up and ensure that we had an environmental meeting when I was Minister of Development. The second environmental meeting is now going on while we're talking, and it would have been very elated about Vidar Helgesen to say something about the outcome of what the international expert group has come up with, and how they believe that the role of any convention can be. Let me just say one thing about that. I think you can imagine that if we try to limit the use of plastics and plastic waste into the sea, we might use existing conventions and existing regional conventions, and say that those who have previously covered other forms of pollution can do something by, for example, putting in place an additional protocol. There's a lot, a lot faster to do than create a whole new convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1042	Norway is a port. We've always lived by the sea. It is not least the sea that has made Norway a prosperous nation, and it is the sea that is to a large extent to be our main resource even after the oil age. Then it is clear that there is an important debate about what is being fed into the sea by the sea of litter. This applies not least to plastics and microplastics as an increasing global environmental challenge. Most of the waste collected in the beach zone is plastic – several places are over 97 pst. of the plastic waste. We know that animals in the sea die because they eat or are stuck in plastic waste. We know that microplastics can spread substances harmful to the environment and to health, both because the plastic itself can contain such substances and because other pollutants can attach to the microplastic. When the microplastics are eaten by animals, the poisons can be carried on into the food chain, and they can end up in our own dish. For a country that serves a lot of seafood to the world, this is an important issue. We need to have a good knowledge base when considering action against microplastic pollution. Surveys carried out by the Environment Directorate show that the largest source of land is the wear and tear of car decks, and that the painting and maintenance of boats, ships and construction and artificial grass tracks are also important sources. Microplastics are also added directly in some products, such as in some body care products, and thus contribute to the release of microplastics when used. Plastic garbage in the sea, which gradually wears down to smaller pieces, is also an important source of microplastic contamination. It's a little bit of a cross of thought that what we're looking at on our beaches is clearly the smallest of the plastic -- most of it sinks to the bottom or circulates in the ocean, so we don't see it. During the World Economic Forum in Davos in January this year a report was presented that pointed out that if nothing is done, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea in 2050. I agree that it is important to consider the prohibition of microplastics in body care products together with other measures against microplastic contamination. The release of microplastics from body care products to the marine environment is a relatively small source, but it is at the same time possible to replace the use in many such products. For the representative of Andersen Eide, I can mention that crushed apricot kernels are certainly one of the substitutes that can be used well. Some countries have already taken the initiative to ban use and voluntary initiatives have been taken at industry level to phase out its use. Action at international level, such as regulation in the EU, will have a far greater impact than a ban in Norway alone. The Danish Environment Minister recently sent a letter to the European Commission calling for a ban on microplastics in cosmetic products, and I welcome it. I myself raised the question of marine littering and microplastics at the Nordic Environment Ministerial meeting in Finland recently. The fact that there are so many sources of microplastic pollution makes it apparent that there is a comprehensive and complex issue that will require action in many areas and across many sectors and product groups. I am therefore concerned that measures to address the challenge are being considered comprehensively and collectively. That is why we have commissioned the Environment Directorate to carry out an action analysis. It will be available during the autumn of 2016 and will be an important basis for the further follow-up. I'm going to give this follow-up priority, both because a total increase wants it, and because this is a high priority international bet by the government. Marine pollution and microplastics carried by ocean currents over long distances are also an international environmental problem. Norway has been working to increase its international attention. I am pleased that the theme is now meeting increasing interest nationally, but also in Nordic cooperation, regionally in OSPAR – and globally. Two years ago, Norway promoted a motion for a resolution at the United Nations Environment Assembly. The study from that resolution on the effects, sources and possible measures to reduce inputs and levels of plastic and microplastics in the sea is presented in Nairobi this week. As a follow-up, Norway has already proposed an action-oriented resolution which, if adopted, could mean an important global consensus on a number of concrete measures. A central proposal in the resolution is that UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme, will investigate whether the international environmental legislation we have today is good enough, and whether it is well coordinated enough to combat plastic and microplastics in the marine environment. It will provide us with a basis to know if it is a possible new convention or other instruments that will be most suitable for achieving results in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1064	On behalf of the Left, I would also like to thank Mr Stortinget for his broad support for our proposal. As many people have faced, it is a major challenge we face. This is precisely why it is important for a national parliament to stop and look at the use of fossil resources, which is the background to the large amount of waste we encounter, whether we clean the beach or sort waste at home in the kitchen. There's a lot of plastic based on oil. It will require considerable efforts and many measures to reduce the amount of waste added to marine resources and to water. We still know little about how this affects groundwater, and it is the most serious challenge we can face if it affects drinking water in the long term. For the left, this is also an important part of the green shift. There are enormous possibilities in the actions we can add up to here. One discussion is the prohibition of laws, another discussion is the economic instruments to phase out the use of plastics, which can create a adventurous innovation related to biological raw materials that we can develop as alternatives to much of the plastics currently used in particular for packaging and other consumables. If we make arrangements for this also in terms of innovation and product development based on wood and other biological materials, we have a win-win situation, which should be part of the further work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1073	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1087	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1094	The proposal by the representatives of the SV who were referred to by the President is a four-point proposal. I'll comment on the four points towards the end of my post. Let me first just point out that the committee is basing itself on the review of the Notice. St. 13 for 2014-2015, i.e. about a year ago, the New Emissions Obligation 2030 – a joint solution with the EU, where Norway’s objective is to cut emissions by at least 40 pst. in 2030, compared with 1990, and the commitment to joint implementation with the EU. In line with the enlargement process, the government will provide the Stortinget with the results of the negotiations with the EU and how to achieve the Norwegian climate objectives in an appropriate manner, when the allocation of effort is ready. It is also natural to refer to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who made a presentation here in the United Kingdom in April, with a subsequent debate on the global climate agreement adopted in Paris and the follow-up to this agreement. The Committee stresses that waiting for the EU with all climate change and adaptation should not mean waiting for it. Measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must focus on all ongoing issues and on all relevant policy areas, the Committee identifies. There is something the government has delivered over a long time. Of course, you can draw up individual items, and then it's natural to refer to the current year's budget, but also those that come forward will have the mark of it. For what is the fact is that this government did not come to the table of climate policy. The fasitite after eight years of red-green government was a gap up to the climate measures of 8 million. tons, and the government, along with the supporting parties, works to cover that gap. The government does a lot of things both in the short and long term. Among other things, the first time transport modes commissioned by the government are developing a climate strategy as part of the basis of the national transport plan, to be addressed in the future. I expect that the other parties will explain their views on this matter, for here there are a slightly different majority, but I think it is important to bring forward what the Progress Party and the Right together with the Christian People's Party say in the comments, that greenhouse gas emissions are a global challenge that needs to find global solutions, and that it must be seen in that perspective. When Stortinget dealt with Report. St. 13 a year ago, very many of the respondents were concerned that Norway should not have any strange climate action but have climate action as harmonised with a part of the industry with which Norway competes. I think it's important that you have that perspective. It is mentioned in the proposals by the proposers, which have also received a majority. Among other things, you want increased use of hydrogen. There it is important to show that the government has provided an energy message. The Energy Communication states that the government will come up with a strategy for the use of hydrogen. We think it's right to have that perspective when you're talking about hydrogen. In the case of charcoal, for which a majority has also been given, we are involved in some of the comments there, but we stress that there is something that is under trial. It is immature, it is an uncertain project, which should become more mature before deciding in the form of decisions here in the Chamber that it should be used. As far as CCS facilities are concerned, I expect the other parties to explain this, not least the economic consequences of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1113	First of all, let me thank the proposers for having received this proposal before the Stortinge. Let me then go straight to the case. As far as the government parties are concerned, I am getting tired of them starting to talk in any kind of climate discussion in the Stortinget that they did not come to the covered table. So the government that is now sitting has longer consecutive seagoing times from the last climate deal than the previous government had, and it must be time for today's government to start taking responsibility for the situation Norway is actually in, and what proposals are actually being adopted and not adopted in terms of climate. There has also been a continuous discussion about a shift in climate action after the government change. Yes, those who acknowledge that there has been a change in climate action cannot at least base it on documents provided by today's government, because it is directly climate-poor, what has come from there. Then to the concrete proposal for a representative. Firstly, most of the proposals are very good. As regards carbon capture and storage, both Yara, Norcem and Klemetsrud are committed to succeeding in that technology. There are three concrete examples that it is fully possible to do something in Norway in terms of carbon capture and storage, and also relatively in view of the possibility of taking the time by 2020. In terms of the ratio to increased hydrogen use and its reference, industrial environments are actively working on this, which need the state and authorities as partners to develop even better solutions. The same applies to charcoal. It is the industrial environments that will actually implement quantum leaps technologically in order to improve the position of greenhouse gas emissions ratios. So what are we reading in the setting? Well, the government parts cover themselves behind Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, which we discussed last summer, relating to the EU framework and our support for it, with regard to climate policy by 2030. The agreement that the Stortinget then concluded, if one is to continue what the government parties are doing here, has become a sleeping cushion for active action now, measures that industry welcomes, and which the industry is asking the authorities to support, so that we can technologically move in the right direction and move forward from the work already done by the industrial environments. This, of course, is not about setting other framework conditions in Norway than in Europe, but it is about Norway as a country and a host for industry and competences being able to participate in and develop technology more. Then I am amazed at the passive attitude of the government parties in this matter. There is a positive, proper industrial grip on the bulk of the population now taking, and one is doing it at the expense of the government parties, who cover themselves behind what happened last summer, that we should await the agreement with the EU before one can go further. Unfortunately, it is a reality, and unfortunately, it may seem unfortunate that the Storting adopted the broad connection to the 2030 EU framework, which we want to achieve, because the government is using it to push all the measures away and out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1126	Prior to the Paris agreement, the government made a thorough assessment of how Norway can best contribute to addressing the global climate challenges described in the report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The goal is to cut at least 40 pst. in 2030, compared with 1990. Climate challenges are global, and therefore it is also important that we commit ourselves to joint implementation with the EU. In addition to the 40 pst emission target. CO2 involves the Paris Agreement that countries contribute to technology development and transfer, capacity building and climate finance In line with this, national emissions are to be reduced towards 2030 and the government has pointed out five areas to be addressed: low-emission development in industries, green shipping, carbon capture and storage, renewable energy and transport. Norway’s efforts must contribute to the reduction of total global greenhouse gas emissions. Climate policy must be designed to maximise emissions for efforts. A number of schemes are in place to contribute to the development and implementation of new climate and low-carbon technologies, from research to market introduction. It is important that our instrument is designed to trigger the very best climate projects. The right considers, therefore, that it is not right to govern the projects to be triggered, as some of the proposals in this case are addressed. On the contrary, we would stress that the greatest success factor for Enova is that they have had a wide scope for action in order to be able to invest in the projects that, together with the market and technological development, have produced the best results to achieve the climate and environmental objectives. This does not mean that we have not shared the ambition to realise at least one full-scale demonstration facility for CCS by 2020. The government works along two lines: current projects are being investigated in Norway and work on full scale CO2 management abroad. In the 2016 state budget, 690 million were allocated. kr for this purpose. The government’s CO2 management strategy suggests that studies of projects in Norway will follow an industrial project maturity cycle. Gassnova commissioned the Ministry of Oil and Energy to present an idea study of possible full-scale projects in Norway in May 2015, and agreements have been reached with Norcem Brevik, Yara Porsgrund and the Energy Recovery Kit in Oslo on potential studies. As an example, I also show that Elkem is currently working on a research project aimed at enabling the full scale of silicon alloys without fossil emissions to be built within a few years. In addition, Enova offered an undertaking of 138 million in the harvest. kr to a biocarbon production plant at Follum in Buskerud. The installation may reduce world CO2 emissions by 400000 tonnes annually. TiZir has also received 122 million. kr in support of Enova for a project with a hydrogen reduction agent conversion, as part of a transition from coal to hydrogen use. Cutting emissions in Norway is a long-term work that requires considerable effort over time. When the current government joined, it took over a gap of 8 million tonnes of CO2 to achieve the 2020 targets. The transition to the low-carbon society has not gone fast enough, and action is now urgent. The government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has increased the level of ambition, and we will continue to do so. Our most important task as politicians is not to point to the individual projects in the industry we believe and believe are the best to reduce emissions. On the other hand, we need to set large but achievable targets that commit, while strengthening the means to achieve the same objectives. It also provides predictability for an industry that will and will do its part to reduce emissions. That's exactly what the government is doing with our partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1155	In view of the historical climate agreement in Paris, we have had a number of representative proposals this spring in addition to the presentation by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. We have tried to take action on behalf of future generations as leaders in their work, balancing towards overall progress and sensible individual proposals. The Paris Agreement provides a clear direction for future climate action and provides for the strengthening of efforts over time. The fact that it is now being negotiated with the European Union, which we have been behind, must not lead us to wait for the European Union with all climate change and adaptation. Climate action must focus on all current issues and on all relevant policy areas. Greenhouse gas emissions are a global problem, but most emissions are also local. It is very positive that a broad political majority in Oslo aims to have a full-scale demonstration facility for the capture of CO2 at the Klemetsrud plant by 2020. A decisive measure for the achievement of the capital’s climate objectives requires State involvement in achieving that objective. Hydrogen is an essential part of the green shift, but once again national authorities need to stimulate industry to make greater use of the best available climate solution. The same applies to charcoal in the ferro-alloy industry. The electrification of oil and gas installations is important. In concrete terms, the use of power from the network at Hammerfest LNG on Melkøya, or power from gas power plants combined with carbon capture and storage, will be an important contribution to the achievement of Norway’s climate targets for 2020. I am promoting the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which is part of it, and sum up that in the climate issue there is not one either – or, but several good measures, which must be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1171	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1174	Climate policy has already been discussed many times and will also be discussed many times during the year ahead. The issue today is based on an SV proposal on climate action in industry and power supply. The centre party considers that there is reason to state that one does not actually have to wait for the EU's allocation of allowances and targets for individual countries; it is fully possible to do things maritime. The proposals in the position we are discussing today are also an expression of this, because the industry in Norway is working on many good projects to develop green technology and green growth, and they deserve support for that work. What is at issue in this setting are core areas for technological change in industry. The centre party is therefore pleased that many of the proposals bring together broad support in the Stortinget. Industry will need framework conditions – policy framework conditions that give them confidence in further development, that they dare to shift from idea and development to market building. It is strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party cannot contribute to the type of action that can increase and develop green growth. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to hide that a majority have said that the proposed agreement with the EU provides predictability and a binding framework, and that we are closely linked to the EU through the internal market. We should wait for the government to return to Stortinget in 2018 or 2019 and discuss national climate policy and industrial measures. The centre party has not been part of that comment, so we don't feel so much that it is used in the setting against the other parties. We believe that the note is now used to push responsibility for change within the industry ahead. We, for our part, believe that it is possible and right to raise opportunities for green growth in Norwegian industry now, and we are pleased that several of the proposals here today have a majority. Norway has good conditions for CO2 management and storage, and it must be a goal to develop a full-scale CCS programme where the country is also actively involved. The report made by Gassnova in this area should be a good starting point for identifying candidates for it. The centre party has been a little reserved to be involved in comments related to very specific candidates in this way, because we believe that the Stortinget should not necessarily go in and point to specific facilities, but leave it to the professional authorities to decide who and where it is most appropriate. Another area where we want to see green growth is the transition from coal to hydrogen. The use of hydrogen is also a technology that deserves the State to contribute to a lift and that it could happen through a larger demonstration plant, would have been positive. Testing of the project where fossil carbon carriers can be replaced by charcoal is a third area where CO2 emissions can be significantly reduced. It has already been used on a certain scale, but it meets the challenge in the form of a lack of certified charcoal, quality and price. This could have contributed to the removal or reduction of these barriers by the State's work. This should be possible and it should also be possible to stimulate the charcoal market in such a way that both the raw material and by-products can be used. As I said, the centre party is pleased that there will be a majority of three proposals for decisions in these areas in the Chamber today, and we expect the government to follow the decisions taken quickly. The proposal to which the Contracting Party cannot subscribe is the proposal relating to the electrification of the Melkøya plant. We are, of course, not against more electrification on the base, but starting to point out a single facility in the Barents Sea in the way you do here, we are reserved for. In addition, the fact that due to the transmission capacity on electricity, which is quite limited in Finnmark, you may be a little uncertain about how clean this actually becomes. Depending on the electricity from other countries to implement such a project would, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1199	First, I want to commend the proposers for submitting the proposal, which puts an important pressure on the hydrogen industry and also on the use of charcoal, which I think all the parties really agree is positive if we are able to achieve. However, I believe it is correct and important to have decisions in Stortinget that put an extra pressure and pressure on the work we are going to do. We are now in the situation that we are going to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. in the next 14 years — that is the obligation in the Paris Agreement. Not only that, we're going to review our targets and strengthen our efforts towards 2020, and together with the EU, we're also going to see if we need to strengthen our targets towards 2030 in the light of reaching a 1.5 degree target, not the 2 degree target. We are in a situation where the SSB on 20 May came up with the latest greenhouse gas emissions figures, which showed that last year the emissions in Norway did not drop, they went up by 1.5 pst. Much of this is due to decisions that go back several years — in the petroleum industry and new fields that are being developed. Despite the fact that the industry has reduced its emissions by 38 pst. from 1990, the last years also went up there by 3.1 pst. It is clear that we need to underpin and step up efforts towards Norwegian industry, so that they can continue the development they have had by being at the forefront of international greenhouse gas reduction. We must then be willing to use strong instruments within what is, of course, part of the quota market. So it's like that, as it was referred to from the Right, that it's using funds for the use of hydrogen as a reducing agent in the industry. TiZir has received support, but this proposal is about the need, without going into the individual enterprise, to put pressure on the need for industrial demonstration facilities and full-scale pilot projects. Enova supports charcoal for Follum. We need to put pressure on increased use of charcoal in the ferro-alloy industry and also in Norwegian charcoal production. What is crucial, and which is the next step for the Storting, is that we are willing to add enough funds into the support schemes we have to get this done. The funds that go to Enova are going to be important. In political Norway, every time we see a major climate problem, we tend to refer to Enova as those who will provide the necessary national support. Then we have to make sure that Enova has the means to take the broad problem that we assign to them. So to CCS, it's clear that to achieve the objectives of the Paris agreement, carbon capture and storage will be important and absolutely necessary instruments to achieve this. We need to implement as quickly as possible. In reality, Norway, provinces in Canada, the United States and, to some extent, within the EU, the Netherlands, are rates of CCS. The fact that we now need to have a very clear pressure to implement a full-scale facility, whether it's Klemetsrud, Norcem or Yara, is an important signal to give to the government. We cannot accept that there are unjustified delays in the process we are about to enter. In the end, we should also have a majority to add a click on a solution for the LNG facility on Melkøya. It's a challenge with the transfer capacity, but it's working. It is clear that here it will be the same: we need to find a long-term solution to reduce emissions also on Melkøya, and we can come up with decisions that add the necessary pressure to get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1216	If you have seen the titanium spraying during bottling from the furnaces to TiZir in Tyssedal and heard the staff engaged tell about how exactly they, at the heart of a fjord arm in Hardangerfjord, are going to be the first in the world to replace coal with hydrogen, so that they, precisely they, in the heart of a fjord arm in Hardangerfjord, will be lying two horse lengths in front of the competitors and ensure that what comes out of process emissions from the pipes is not CO2, but water vapour, so that precisely those who operate in the middle of a fjord in Hardangerfjord will be able to continue to operate industrial activities and have a place in the zero-emission society that we know we need to convert to as quickly as possible, if we are to stop the dangerous climate change – then you cannot stand back unscathed. Nevertheless, what the government is doing is that last year the greenhouse gas emissions went up. They are higher now than when they took over, although they said they would strengthen the climate agreement. While the Storting has decided to reduce emissions, and the whole world has signed an agreement on the urgency of cutting emissions by 2020, the government has supported increased emissions by 2020. The government is a climate failure. The Environment Directorate has provided the government – in the spring of 2014 and in the summer of 2015 – with a two-fold outline of how greenhouse gas emissions can be cut to meet the Storting's target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions from today's 53.9 million. tonnes to a maximum of 47 million. tonnes. But the government refuses to follow the recipe, and the matter we are dealing with today is another example of that. In its report of June last year, the Directorate for the Environment states that among large industrial emissions, four point out: hydrogen to replace fossil coal in the process industry charcoal to replace fossil coal in the process industry carbon capture and storage electrification of the energy plant on Melkoya The government is against all of them. Coal is used in industry as a reducing agent. It simply means that they use the carbon in the coal to extract the oxygen from, for example, the iron, which is found in nature as rusted iron. Today, everyone uses up to 15 pst. charcoal and plan to increase it to 40 pst. towards 2020. It's with known technology. If they want to move on, they have to develop new technologies for the process, they mean themselves. They will make their own charcoal production to get charcoal of proper quality, use the heat in the process and have sustainability at the bottom. Their plans involve the use of up to one third of annual Norwegian harvests. TiZir has created a new process by replacing coal with hydrogen, but needs support for scaling up, piloting and full scale demo. Carbon capture and storage is a repetition of the Stortinget. Yesterday, 22 May, the deadline for the three fishing projects to deliver their up-to-date calculations: Yara, Norcem and Klemetsrud in Oslo. The fishing side will be able to deliver – I am convinced of that. If it becomes a competition and it's actually the government's willingness to spend money, it's going to be fine. I am significantly more uncertain about the transport and storage bit. Some of the problem on the catch side is that the deadline expired today, but they do not get a proper response until October, and then not before the completion of landfill treatment at the end of next year, on whether there will be money for this. I believe that the government and Tord Lien do not have a CCS strategy that is credible towards an investment decision, because the government does not have a clear structure and a clear plan for determining the investment decision for the transport and storage bit. And "mind you": it has longer life than the fishing side, as I know. That is why it is so important, the decision taken today, because it puts pressure on the government to deliver on the investment decision. Electrification is the fourth proposal of the Environment Directorate and the only one for which there is no majority today. It's a shame, because it's a no brain and unfortunately there's no willingness among any of the oil parties to follow up the demands of the oil industry when it comes to the problem. When an emission permit was granted to the LNG plant on Melkøya, which is one of the country's most sovereign point emissions, it was required to be clarified for CCS. Statoil asked instead for the installation to be prepared for electrification if free power was to be available. New transmission lines are now being built to Skaidi, and it will be a narrow matter to impose electrification – it is open in the concession terms – or to offer the possibility to set up gas power plants with CCS locally. Gas available, CO2 pipelines available. This is one of the places where the oil industry itself uses CCS. Two weeks ago, Norwegian Industry submitted its roadmap against zero emissions in the process industry towards 2050. They fixed what we know, that it's just zero emissions that's good enough. It understands the majority of the population, it understands the industry, but not the government. Thus, the government is firmly committed to breaking the climate agreement and rather follow the forecasts of increasing emissions by 2020. I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1261	I would like to thank the proposers for a good proposal and congratulate the Stortinget for today's clear message to the government to step up efforts in several key climate policy areas. Although emissions from Norwegian industry have fallen sharply in recent decades, the target remains far behind. The reality is that all sectors must be nearly emission-free over a few decades. We can't just continue to measure the emission cuts as a percentage by deciding that all the emissions are to be eliminated sector by sector. Being good at zero-emission solutions is at the same time an enormous competitive advantage in the global economy of the years to come. Countries, businesses and businesses that are best in these areas will have great advantage if they are early out. These solutions need to be developed and implemented over a few decades, largely, and preferably over the next ten years. If the world is to take the Paris agreement seriously, the pace must be dramatically increased. This is not just a fixed point of speech from politicians from the Green Party, it is an empirical fact. Let me outline a simple but important calculation: a study published in Nature magazine in 2015 confirms what is relatively obvious, namely that the 1.5 degree scenario requires us to halve the carbon budget that we previously used for the 2-degree target. And if we do that, and halve the carbon budget we've been operating so far while we had 2 degrees as a measure, we can just drop out 500 billion. tonnes of greenhouse gas before we pass that target. As annual global emissions exceed 40 billion. tonnes, that means that the carbon budget with today's emissions is emptied over 12 years. That's the time we have to get rid of emissions in all sectors. Those who are best at delivering those solutions are going to have an enormous advantage in the years to come. By comparison, emissions in Norway have stood still or have risen slightly in the last 30 years, regardless of who has had the Minister for the Environment, and regardless of who has been in government. On Friday we were told that the emissions increased by 1.5 pst. in 2015 as well. Norwegian climate policy has been a failure in the major period after the ageing period. That is why I hope you agree that we need a very different climate policy in the years to come. The decisions we are making here today are taking a step further in terms of CCS, in terms of hydrogen, and in terms of the use of charcoal. As the majority of the Committee determines in its position, these are nuclear technologies in a global green shift, and they are technologies with high transmission value internationally. We should probably rather have seen that we had managed to get a majority for decisions that not only encouraged the government to increase its use, but also asked the government to clearly deploy the resources needed. The emission cuts must be made on the actual point emissions, and Norwegian governments must dry up to commit themselves here and now to cancel the money. We hope and believe that the budget for the harvest will reflect the decisions made today. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the comments in the vote that mention the need for cooperation between the State and the Municipality of Oslo to put in place a full-scale demo plant for the capture of CO2 at Klemetsrud in Oslo, preferably by 2020. The establishment, which many people have been concerned with, requires that we find good solutions both for storage and for the cleaning itself, but we hope that the government – and especially the Right – remembers that during the Right local elections last year CCS on Klemetsrud was an important matter, and the then bourgeois Oslo City Council told Oslo to become a precursor city for other cities and countries in this area. I hope the Right, the Government and the Council of State still believe that Oslo will become such a precursor, and I hope that the government will take its share of the funding, so that the facility will be put in place as soon as possible and preferably by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1293	The government is constantly working with the cooperative parties to strengthen the climate agreement. Norway’s national emissions will be reduced by 2030, and our long-term objective is to become a low-carbon society by 2050. The climate agreement suggests that climate policy should be set up in such a way as to maximise the emission reduction of efforts and to reduce emissions both in Norway and abroad. These are therefore cross-sectoral economic instruments, such as the quota system and the CO2 tax, which are the main instruments of Norwegian climate policy. This leads to decentralised, cost-effective and informed measures that are paid by the polluter. At the same time, there is no doubt that in some cases it makes sense to use other instruments in addition to allowances and charges. As the proposers point out, the development of new technologies in Norway can contribute to faster conversion to the use of more climate-friendly technologies in the world. The development of clean production technologies will allow emission reductions in Norway — and globally. This can create competitive advantage and enable growth in industry, which can contribute to Norwegian competitiveness, while reducing emissions. This is why low-emission development in industry is one of the main areas of government's policy on climate change, and therefore we are strengthening the instrument for triggering these types of projects. Investment in new technologies is often associated with high risks. It is demanding to be the company that leads and tests out a new technology. The Research Council, Innovation Norway, Enova and Gassnova constitute the public instrument for research, development and demonstration of low-carbon technologies. There are several major climate projects in industry that have progressed in the last year. For example, Hydro, with the support of Enova, has decided to build full-scale pilot installations for environmentally friendly aluminium production on Karmøy. It is one of the largest investments in Norwegian land-based industry in the last ten years. Enova has as its specific objective the promotion of an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production and the development of energy and climate technologies. Enova’s strengthened national commitment to climate technology was a key element of the climate agreement. Therefore, this government has strengthened the climate reconciliation by increasing the contribution to the climate and energy fund by a further 17.75 billion. kr. In addition, we have significantly increased the allocation of environmental technologies, more money has been allocated to research on environmentally friendly energy, and 690 million has been allocated. kr to bet on CO2 management in the 2016 state budget. In addition, as we announced in the revised national budget, we are in the process of exploring how to operate Renewable AS. Renewable AS shall contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and include efforts aimed at new technologies in the transition from technology development to commercialisation. The instrumentation is designed to trigger the best projects. The different schemes assess aid on a project basis and according to defined criteria. It is important that the individual case and project are dealt with within the instrument established to ensure the implementation of precisely such projects. This is an important principle. The government does not intervene in the evaluation of individual projects, and we should not start with that either. On the other hand, what the government is doing is to continuously assess whether the instrument has been put together in an appropriate way. The ambition is that the different schemes together should be an effective tool to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. In the vote, there is a majority to ask the government to ensure the realisation of at least one CO2 facility. The government has an ambition to realise at least one full-scale facility by 2020, and presented a run in the CCS strategy to achieve this goal. The government is constantly working on this, and the work is going so far as planned. Of course, as regards the recommendation of the Committee on Hydrogen as a reducing agent and the use of charcoal in the ferro-alloy industry, we will follow on from the leadership of the Storting. I would like to point out that these are two of the many examples of projects that have already been supported by different parts of the instrument. The technologies are good within the mandate of the existing state schemes. TiZir has received substantial support from Enova. Elkem has received support from the Research Council. This indicates that the industry is on the right track. There are exciting and forward-looking projects that can both contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and provide competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. We need to meet the climate challenge with an active innovation policy, research policy and a policy for the development of low-carbon technologies. But we should be careful to pick out as politicians which technologies and projects are to be promoted. There are also many other companies that have exciting technologies. Alcoa, Glencore, Arba Follum and Elkem Solar are examples of companies that have been supported. Rather than steering the instrument in detail, we need to set up the different mechanisms to trigger the technological transformation that will take us to the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1328	First of all, I would like to commend the Minister for Climate and Environment for a good report. I fully agree with him: it is about being able to stimulate the technological skills of Norway to develop green competitiveness in industry. That is very important. I also agree that a non-detailer should be controlled by Stortinget. Therefore, the original proposals have been rewritten, and there are now general proposals, both in terms of carbon capture and storage, in terms of hydrogen and its use as a reducing agent, as well as in terms of the charcoal and the ferro-alloy industry. My question is: In view of the positive approach taken by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, is it not a little strange that the government parties are voting against such positive general guidelines on technologies that can be successful in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1337	I am pleased to see that we agree on a great deal. That's why we have a policy based on a climate deal, that's why it was a broad connection to the EU's interaction with the 2030 targets, and that's why we agree very much on the need for technology development, both because it can reduce emissions in Norway, and because part of what we are doing here can have an impact on global emissions reductions when good technology is applied more places. I don't think you should look at the position of the government parties in this matter and at these proposals as anything but a continuation of this view of technology development, but it should be seen as a way of pointing out special solutions, special companies and special technologies, when we have an instrument that is in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1344	Thanks for the answer. There's a lot we agree on, and there's a lot of things that have to be done. That we interpret today's case and today's voting, possibly as a continued connection, is probably a bit exaggerating. That is why I ask very clearly, because the reason why the proposals are now being promoted is that there is uncertainty about whether a follow-up to those points is sufficient, not least in terms of carbon capture and storage. The size is very unknown as to whether a come in port with a full-scale carbon capture facility in Norway by 2020. Can the Council of State now confirm that the government is following this up and that it will, for example, ensure that there will be a carbon capture plant in Norway by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1353	I can at least say that the Paris agreement does not make it less topical and no less important with carbon capture. That is why, both in Norway and internationally, we are committed to making progress in this. We have the ambition of at least one full-scale demonstration facility by 2020. We are now investigating current projects in Norway, and we are working on full-scale CO2 management abroad. The strategy for CO2 management presented in the 2015 budget suggests that studies of projects in Norway will follow an industrial project maturity cycle. Now we are in the process of potential studies of current projects. They're done in the summer, and we're going back to how we're going to go on working on the 2017 budget. There is no doubt that CO2 management is very important to achieve the long-term climate objectives. It has to be said, however, that it is likely to contribute little to the achievement of the 2020 target, but more importantly, we will need CCS by 2030 and 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1369	Let me start by saying that I want to thank the rest of the opposition for being able to agree on good and constructive proposals that give clear leadership. I agree with the previous representative, i.e. Aasland, that a good, factual and sober statement was made, and in addition it was clearly announced that these decisions will be followed up by the government. One of the reasons we're prioritizing this is that the government is going around with billions every time they talk about Enova, but the reality is that the extra money that Enova has to spend, net, is about 129 million. kr annually. And then it's important to housekeepers with that money. Then I would like to start by asking a question about CCS. The catch side, I also said in my post, I am not so worried about whether we can get in place, but everyone agrees that it is the state that must be responsible for the transport and storage side. How long does the Council of State consider that it takes from investment decisions until we have transport and storage in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1376	If I had known that, I might have been running with other things. So it's the case that we have studies of projects that are done by experts, that are being investigated and that are going to follow a project maturation cycle. It is too early today to say exactly how and how quickly work can be carried out, but the feasibility studies of both fishing, transport and storage projects will thus be completed in the summer. Then we will take it further and point a path further in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1381	Good, then we know that we get answers to those questions in the 2017 budget. I'm very happy about that, and we're waiting in excitement for it. But then I want a follow-up question to the Council of State about how he works. For the Council of State and the former Council of State, the Environment Directorate ordered recipes on how to achieve the 2020 targets. Well, those recipes have come in two different reports, and it says it's very specific what you have to do. Nevertheless, the Council of State almost criticises the opposition in its statement that we are going in and following up the recommendations of the Environment Directorate and are picking up the different technologies and projects. But if the Environment Directorate's recommendations to choose different projects and technologies are not to be interpreted, how in the world does the Council of State work to achieve the 2020 targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1388	The fact that the Directorate-General for the Environment has done a good job of making visible what can contribute to reducing emissions is a very important basis for my work, and it was an important basis for the work of my predecessors and for the work of the government. This does not mean that we are going to go into detail and identify the individual projects used by the Environment Directorate to illustrate its points, but we are thus strengthening the instrument to enable the investments and pilot projects to contribute to the necessary technology development for low-emission solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1394	The strength has been 129 million. If you follow the budgets of the government itself. 129 million. kr net from Enova. I understand very well that if the way to follow up the Environment DG's recommendations is not to follow up the Environment DG's recommendations, it is no wonder that emissions actually rise. The forecasts, as they are available from the Environment Directorate, indicate that emissions will continue to go up by 2020. As emissions increased and the figures for last year came, Vidar Helgesen said that, well, this was an expected increase in emissions. The question is: the forecasts now point to 2020, the government has not presented one significant cut-off proposal which contributes to the reduction of emissions by 2020 recommended by the Environment Directorate, so what does the Council intend to do to ensure that emissions do not rise next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1399	We have strengthened the efforts of Enova, as I said. We have almost tripled the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway. In one year, the proportion of green projects in the Innovation Norway portfolio has increased from 28 to 38 pst. It's a significant step forward. It is not always the case that technology development produces emissions savings from year to year. But if we are to get to the low-carbon society, it is the kind of action that we need, and it is the kind of action that allows the Environment DG proposals to be implemented. With regard to the evolution of emissions now, the Environment Directorate has said in its projections that it is likely that oil and gas emissions will rise to 2020 before they start to decline. It is due to decisions taken before the lifetime of this government, but there are decisions on which these government parties and all other government parties in Norway have been involved for the last 20 to 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1404	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1409	In conclusion, I would like to comment on a few things. First to the representative Terje Aasland, who is once again up here, with an increasingly higher voice, but the arguments are still missing. The representative of Aasland indicates that this government has longer seagoing times from the climate agreement than the previous government has. Let me just say it like this: in 1997 I was elected to the Stortinget. The first debate I took part in was about climate. And it wasn't a new debate for Stortinget – it had been a long time. So climate has been debated in this room at regular intervals over the past 25–30 years. It's never nice to see any refugees from the responsibility they've had. The red-greens have had eight years in this room with a majority to promote the climate policy that you would like to see. It just didn't happen. And then you can ask yourself, why didn't that happen? Well, I think the basic thing was that the government took into account industry, value creation and jobs. There was a concern SV agreed on, on which SV obviously did not like to be involved, and that is why they now produce representative proposals on continuous tapes – in order to remedy the bad conscience that has developed over eight years. The last thing that happens now is that the Workers' Party also wants to get away from the consensus they had under Melding. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. It's just to register. I find it sad that you cannot stand the positions you have had, but Aasland must at least be commended for being honest with him from this pulpit and say that you really regret it. Then there's been a little discussion about technology. Let me put it this way: you have to be very careful from this pulpit to bring forward both single businesses and single technologies, and especially those that are politically correct. I think the instruments must be general. That's when they are also perceived to be neutral and designed in such a way that everyone can participate and take advantage of them. You start defining what's politically correct, and lifting it up, you're on wild roads, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1420	I take full responsibility for the eight years when the red-green government crashed the country. We presented two climate impact announcements, submitted two reconciliations based on these climate announcements, and, as I said in my first post: From the last climate agreement to today, the government of today has thus had longer speed to control the country than the previous government. But then the government parties, and in particular perhaps the representative of Korsberg, for the tedious use that this government did not come to the table, instead of pointing out the responsibility they now have to promote proposals and measures that could bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. So I haven't said that we want away from the consensus we had about joining the EU framework, when we adopted it last summer, but I have said that it has become almost a consistent act from the government parties that they are using it as a shield against entering into new measures that will bring down greenhouse gas emissions. I think that's actually unfortunate. Last summer we were offered a presumption that during this year the most likely agreement with the EU would be concluded. What we now know is that this agreement with the EU is at least not being finalised during this enlargement period. This means that for this growth, it is quite necessary that a pointed out and implemented good measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Many of the proposals adopted by the Stortinget with regard to measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are against the will of the government parties – or so the government parties see that there suddenly became a majority here, so they remain with all the same. There is no doubt that the key feature of this ageing period in terms of climate is that it is in fact the majority of the population and not the government parties that make us get measures that are positive for climate in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1429	It was the last comment from the representative of Korsberg that brought me up again. The aim of promoting all these proposals that we have promoted in recent years is to cut emissions. And we see that we have a government that boasts that they have submitted the recipe. I remember that the previous climate minister repeated many times that it was her government that, in the GAP report, found out what was to be done to achieve the objectives – and so there was no proposal for one of the steps taken there. So what we're doing is we're using the government department to promote the proposals we're going to make to cut emissions by 2020, since the government chooses not to do that. And I think you, before you keep going on the bale you've been on in the last few years saying that we didn't come to the deck table, it was the previous government that did everything, I just want you to read about it again, you're going to look at what the SSB said before the weekend: ‘After a long-term trend in greenhouse gas emissions reduction, increased greenhouse gas emissions in 2015.’ This trend has declined from the first climate agreement in 2007–08 to the last year. And when you hear from the government council, he says that the emissions are now growing with the forecast, and we have a government that is running according to the forecast. This means that there is no new policy – and climate policy works, but unfortunately the lack of climate policy also works. Real technology optimists are using the technology. What you need to focus on is to use the technology that's out there, because it's the way you can industrialize it. And if we think through what's the biggest breakthrough we've had in the last 10–15 years of climate policy, then it's Germany's gift to humanity when they chose to bet heavily on the sun and the wind. It helped to industrialize the entire sector and made known technology much, much cheaper and today is able to compete for new fossil energies of all kinds. I end up with it, and I am happy today with the rest of the opposition – and perhaps in secret: parts of the position – which are pleased that the Stortinge gives a very clear instruction that we should make sure that we realize important hydrogen bets, important CCS bets and important bets on charcoal production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1447	I really didn't intend to take the floor anymore in this debate, because the decisions are positive, and we put pressure on us to have emissions cut in Norwegian industry, which is also an advantage for Norwegian industry and its competitiveness internationally. This is reducing global emissions. But I also listened to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, and there is something about the description – that you take it one step too far. I have also seen the SSB report that emissions have increased, and yes, it is an increase this year after we have had a few years where it has gone down. But you also have to look at the background to make it go up. It's not about what happened in the last year. This is about the decisions that have been taken, especially in the petroleum industry in the last ten years. That's where the emissions come from. I believe that we share a shared responsibility for having a completely different systematic approach in our climate work both towards 2020 – the goals we should not leave behind – and towards 2030. If there is one thing that climate policy in Norway really is screaming for, there is a better systematic approach in work over the years to come. It goes without saying that the previous government did too little and that few proposals have been made by this government. The common bourgeois majority has taken many decisions in the Grand Duchy, and many decisions have been taken in the Grand Duchy by a different majority. It's a tempo shift with a bourgeois majority on the Stortinget. What's our responsibility is to be able to get the effect out of this in the years to come. In the matters we are dealing with now, a lot of the will we show when we make the decisions needs to be followed up with a priority of the support schemes we have for the transition both to hydrogen and to charcoal. It is against Enova, it is against Gassnova, it is against the eco-innovation scheme. We have to go up to a level that corresponds to the tasks that we're assigning to these institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1463	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1466	I do not accept the description of Ola Elvestuen. I'm the first to admit that it's quite obvious that we wanted to speed up the climate during the period we set, but you have to look at the facts. The facts say the emissions went down. Forecasts for 2020 went down. The Left and Christian People's Party went to the elections to say that only we get a new government, we're finally going to get emissions cut. That's what they said and promised their constituents. What we have now received is a rate change that has led to increased emissions rather than emissions falling. So I just want to ask the Left's representative to admit to their own voters soon that it's actually the time shift that has come, is a time shift in the wrong direction. Forecasts for the future point towards increased emissions if no new policy is implemented. All decisions are old decisions, but that is why a new policy must be adopted – and the new policy is unfortunately absent from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1473	Ola Elvesuen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1477	It's old politics, and it also has to take responsibility for it, because it's been SV and involved in deciding, and that's the consequences of the decisions that were taken some years ago, we now see the results of. Then we have to be able to break down the emissions that are. We have to do that in industry, where this is important, and we have to do it especially in the transport sector, because we have to compensate for the increase that is now taking place. What is the basis, and what we have to do instead of just pointing out the problem, is analyze the situation. We need new policies in the petroleum sector – there will be a discussion afterwards. We must have new and strengthened industrial policies. We must have much more and strengthened within transport. We know that's where we have to take the big emitters both by 2020, if it's going to work, and by 2030. And you have to get the system strategy that is needed to get the emission cuts that we need in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1482	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1496	First, I would like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for its work. This is a unanimous case, and there is no controversy about implementing it. But it is still a very important matter. The Government requested in this proposition agrees to accede to the Second Protocol to the 1954 Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Values in the event of the armed conflict of 26 March 1999. I am pleased that there is an overall committee here that gives its support to this wish of the government. The accession of Norway to the Protocol, as indicated by the Government in its proposal, will give an important international signal of respect for cultural values, including in war situations. It is primarily experience from World War II that provides the background to the Hague Convention, but we have seen in recent years that the issue is still very topical. It's enough to point out the situation in Syria, whether it's in Palmyra, in Aleppo or in Mosul in Iraq. Earlier, in the 1990s, we saw the same thing in Bosnia, where it was an independent objective in the conflict to destroy cultural values. In recent times, there are also particularly protected UNESCO cultural memories that have been directly destroyed or threatened in conflicts. The States which accede to the Convention undertake to protect cultural heritage from the consequences of armed conflict and not to export cultural objects from occupied territories. A number of irreplaceable values, e.g. museums, archives and other cultural memories have been plundered and destroyed in national conflicts and in warfare between parties which do not necessarily represent recognised states and legally elected governments. This represents a new challenge for the international community that can only be solved through international cooperation. There are 127 countries which have ratified the Hague Convention. Norway ratified the Convention and the first Protocol as early as 1961. The second protocol, to which the Stortinget today decides to join, was adopted on 26 March 1999. This obliges the parties to design criminal provisions for infringements of the Protocol and to implement various measures that need to identify and protect particularly important cultural values. The second protocol provides clear definitions of military necessity and better protection for cultural heritage. In February 2016, 68 countries ratified other protocols, which entered into force on 9 March 2004. To date, Norway has not signed this Protocol and is no longer open to signing with subsequent ratification. Norway must therefore accede to the Protocol pursuant to Article 42 of the Convention. I can add that the committee has a mild criticism of the government, and certainly also of previous governments, that it has taken so long that we cannot be signatories, but only have to accede. I am pleased that with today's decision, we decide that Norway should be an active partner in the fight against the destruction and plundering of important cultural memories in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1515	The fact that there is a broad consensus often means that matters are important. That is the case today as well. The destruction of cultural heritage in conflict zones has been increasing in recent years. It has escalated further in the current situation in the Middle East, where a number of irreplaceable values have been plundered and destroyed, in national conflicts and in warfare between parties that do not necessarily represent recognised states and legally elected governments. In part, this has also greatly affected cultural heritage included in UNESCO's list of world cultural and natural heritage. The efforts of UNESCO in the armed conflict are important, but it is reflected in the conclusion of the Member States on the various conventions. The Hague Convention is one of the major conventions of the UNESCO system and is therefore one of the main instruments. In particular, other protocols are an important tool for the destruction of world heritage, but also other important cultural values. The Protocol clarifies obligations and responsibilities in armed conflicts, including in national conflicts, and sets out requirements for the protection of these cultural values. The system established by the Protocol, with enhanced protection for cultural values of greatest importance to humanity, is expected to provide improved protection for this type of cultural value. Similarly, the reinforced sanctions against serious infringements aimed at cultural values are important. It is therefore an important international signal that we give when the protocol is adopted. It will be noted that Norway — after some time — ends up doing this important and timely work, and I am therefore very pleased with the Storting’s agreement to this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1528	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1542	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1549	This case has some similarities with case No. 6, which we dealt with a few minutes ago in this room, so I'm not going to spend time on the introduction, which is equal in the cases where the committee reasonably agrees. Let me just say once and for all that this government did not come to the table of climate policy. The fasitite after eight years of red-green government was a gap up to the climate targets of 8 million tons, and it's a gap government working to close. I am perfectly aware that not everyone in the Chamber likes to be reminded of this, but I assume that the representative Aasland will once again go up on this pulpit and turn his voice up to new heights and dents. It's got to be. It was interesting to note the end of the debate we had on case no. 6, on what caused the greenhouse gas emissions we are now seeing – that decisions had been taken under the previous government. Here SV wanted to run away from the responsibility, and it's interesting to notice. The normal thing is to take responsibility for what you have been doing. So to the proposal itself: as it stands at present, oil and gas policy in Norway is solid and has a fairly wide majority in the UK. It is simply to state that Norwegian oil and gas are part of the solution to the global challenges. The world will need more and cleaner energy, and so Norwegian oil and gas production is at the top of the world in producing energy in this way. There is an important contribution to reducing the use of coal in Europe, and several EU countries have a strategy to phase out their coal use in coal-fired power stations and move on to other forms of energy, and Norwegian gas is an important contribution. And then you can really just say that Norwegian gas is an important part of the EU climate solution. That this looks a little different in the Norwegian climate accounts, we just get to register, but I think you need to have a bigger look than just Norway when talking about greenhouse gases and climate impact. So this is a global question, and maybe a little bit more thinking about it. Many people are concerned about the oil and energy policy they pursue, and the predictability they have. Report. St. 13 for 2014–2015, which we discussed a year ago, was an important document in this way. So far, it looks like there's a certain majority for what you meant a year ago, and maybe some parties want to get away from it. But I just want to show that, among other things. So LO and NHO gave the government credit for the direction that is pointed out in Meld. Article 13, and supports Norway's dialogue and negotiations with the EU to conclude a joint agreement on the implementation of climate commitments by 2030. A number of other organisations said the same thing. So this goes out a little bit in time. We just get to register that, but that doesn't mean that this government is sitting passively. It takes a number of measures on the climate side, and I think that the government will get credit for that. I expect oil and gas policy to be firm, even after this debate, but I'm excited about Terje Aasland's contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1562	If the representative of Korsberg has read the statement, he should not be so very surprised at what Terje Aasland is going to say, because I am going to follow up on what is the Workers' Party's entrance to this matter. But before that a little reflection: Statistical Central Bureau is an institution that the Progress Party holds high. Not least they did it in their opposition, when – let's say – they controlled their budgets and got some answers that they openly used. Now the SSB has made a new analysis, which shows that under the Stoltenberg II government, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen, during the Solberg government they are increasing. It's an actual confirmation of reality and cannot be explained out. I am not going to address the EU framework, which the government uses as a shield against entering into new measures, although there are no restrictions on Norway as a nation or the United Kingdom being able to adopt new climate action, even if we want to join the EU framework in the context of climate 2030. So to this case, which is essentially about our oil activities and how we're going to deal with them. There, the Workers' Party has been very clear all the way, not least last summer, when we dealt with the relationship to the ice edge and 23rd concession round. We believe that what has been clarified as a working system between the accumulation and the government is firm. It is a good exercise of oil policy and a prerequisite for the framework conditions and predictability associated with Norwegian cap. It's at the back of the Workers' Party. And that's really what this is about 23rd concession rounds and the TFOs. That's where it's fixed, and we have no change in it. That is why it is not problematic for us either, so we are not going to vote against the proposals that have been raised on this. That is why we were also very clear that we referred to the framework of how we should manage the sea areas and have a combination of different interests in relation to the management plans. We have already, on one hand earlier today, tightened up the government considerably in view of how they will work on the management plans for our marine areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1573	The Paris Agreement is a major step in the right direction for the world to succeed in preventing catastrophic climate change. It obliges all countries that have signed the agreement, including Norway. Norway had an active role in the negotiations and contributed to the ambitious nature of the agreement. Norway is an oil and gas nation. Some suggest that Norway will no longer be able to do so in the future in the light of the Paris Agreement. It is true that Norway cannot or will not be an oil and gas nation in the eternal future. It is well possible that Norwegian oil and gas resources will also remain on the ground. But in that case it will be because of lack of profitability or demand. Thinking that our main industry is going to disappear with the first is wrong. Given that our industry manages to reduce costs, implement new technologies and continue to reduce its emissions, Norwegian oil and gas industries are well equipped to help deliver energy to an increasingly needed world, including within an ambitious climate target. The right-hand side disagrees with several of the proposals promoted in this case, such as: suspension of 23rd concession rounds or allocations through the TFO scheme. Supporting such proposals is only logical if you live in a world where you want to wind up the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Without access to new exploration areas, it will not be possible for Norwegian petroleum activities to maintain the current level of production. The level is already halved compared to what it was at the beginning of the 2000s. I would also warn against the fact that, at a time of uncertainty, downsizing and difficult times in the oil industry, we should signal here today that we want major changes in the petroleum tax system. One of the most important aspects of this industry is the long-term framework conditions and predictability of the authorities. Norway is the world leader in climate-efficient oil and gas production. An offensive research effort along with the world's strictest environmental requirements has provided it. Nowhere else in the world does the oil and gas industry have such an incentive to make production as environmentally friendly as possible. Every day, Norwegian industry works on this. This policy has resulted in significantly lower CO2 emissions, less use of chemicals in production and significant reductions in marine emissions. I'm very proud of that. At the same time, it is a fact that fossil energy will remain in the world's energy mix in the future. So the question is not whether we're going to have fossil energy, but what kind of fossil energy it should be. I believe that climate-efficient Norwegian oil and gas should play a role here. The petroleum sector is part of the EU ETS, within which emissions shall be reduced by 43 pst. by 2030. Norwegian oil and gas industries will continue to pursue emission reductions, but with the instruments we already have, as an incentive. In addition, Enova can now support projects in this sector and open up new opportunities for the industry. The proposals promoted in this case do not make Norway cleaner, but undoubtedly make it poorer and less able to have an offensive climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1597	As we have said many times from this pulpit this spring, the climate challenge is the greatest challenge our generation faces. At the same time, we are the generation of people who have the opportunity to find a solution. That means that many things have to change, and that many things we've taken for granted are of course no longer. We know that we have to get away from fossil energy, at the same time we know that fossil fuels will be an important part of our reality for decades yet. Just as hard it is. The representative proposal points to a number of important issues. The main action of the ETS sector is linked to a common solution with the EU, where Norway’s objective is to cut emissions by at least 40 pst. in 2030 compared with 1990. It's solid. However, we have chosen to support two of the proposals from SV. One is to stop the ongoing allocation of TFO areas pending a detailed analysis. The Christian People's Party's assessment is that the TFO is now being used far beyond the original plan. We will therefore restrict and preferably abolish the whole scheme. Furthermore, we support the proposal that the Stortinget ask the government not to award blocks in 23rd concession rounds, which the Environment Directorate and the Polar Institute have dismissed in their hearing. This applies to blocks located in the unanswered and controversial area up against the ice edge. In the period between the Committee's release and this debate, the government has just allocated several of these blocks. We are, as you know, strongly critical of that. We believe that this is not in line with, and must conflict with, the government's own formulation of accession, that the administrative responsibility and precautionary principle should underpin all policy areas. I am promoting with this the proposals of the Christian People's Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1614	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1617	I will just make a few brief comments on the matter. I am not going to go into the kind of guilt-sharing and history-writing that some previous speakers have been talking about. The centre party actually sees this Document 8 as an attempt to start winding up the Norwegian oil and gas sector. It is ‘fair enough’, but the Central Party acknowledges that Norway is an oil and gas nation. We have no difficulty in supporting the industry that is very important, both in terms of jobs and, not least, in terms of income to the Norwegian country. There is broad agreement on the framework conditions on the Norwegian base. The agreement on the framework conditions is established. It also shows today's position, where there are a large number of representatives here in the Chamber who are going to vote against these proposals submitted in the vote. It is true that Norwegian sock and Norwegian oil and gas industry have also played a role in trying to reduce CO2 emissions. It will be my claim that it has contributed to a greater extent than many other parts of Norwegian industry through, among other things. having had a CO2 tax much longer than many other parts of the Norwegian industry have had. It has led to a technological development that has also produced results related to CO2 emissions. We also receive an electrification of the Johan Sverdrup platform, which is also an important contribution, and – as the representative Bru had previously been involved – we have in itself had a reduced production, almost half a half since the millennium. I think it's possible to do more in the oil and gas sector to reduce emissions. This must be done with positive instruments, because the oil and gas sector is a quota sector, just like other parts of Norwegian industry. In that case, the market for allowances and positive instruments are the main means of achieving emission reduction. Like several other batches, the Centre Party considers it reasonable to establish a low-emission technology programme in cooperation with industry partners, where one could have gone through the possibilities of further emission reduction. A large part of the proposals – and I expect that it will be duly mentioned in the next articles – are questions about 23rd rounds to be implemented or not. The 23rd round was initiated under the red-green government. There was a broad majority in the Storting who stood behind the announcement of it, and it is the government's responsibility to assign. Granting according to the Storting is also the responsibility of the government. The centre party sees no reason why the Storting should take any further position on the 23rd concession round. If it is the case that the cooperation parties and the government parties disagree on certain aspects of the 23rd concession round, there is a relationship between them, which in itself is the Stortinget irrelevant. According to our position on the oil and gas sector, the centre party cannot vote in favour of the proposals today. We believe that there are many opportunities for reducing emissions in the oil and gas sector in the future, but this does not happen by starting to phase out the sector, which I see as an attempt at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1647	According to the Paris agreement, we're no longer just going to go towards a 2 degree goal, we're going to go significantly below, and we're going to go to 1.5 degrees. That means we have to have negative emissions earlier than in the second half of this century. It's a huge reduction in emissions we have to go through over the next few decades. It is quite obvious that this will have consequences for the Norwegian oil and gas industry as well, and we believe it is absolutely right that we should now start preparing for the change that must come when consumption has to go down. When the consumption has to go down, large parts of the resources are going to be underground. Then, in the Left's view, there's no reason to start producing in the vulnerable areas we have, whether it's the Lofoten, the West needle and the Senja, or it's the ice edge. If in one area a definitely should not initiate activity, it is in the most biologically important and most vulnerable areas we have. We have a civil agreement, between four parties, that we should not have petroleum activity within the ice edge. We had a case last year with a discussion where the government put forward a case of writing the numbers and calculating the ice. They didn't get a majority for that. We thought at the time that we had to make use of the latest available knowledge, and the last available knowledge is the one we have from the Polar Institute, which shows that in order to maintain what is the edge of the ice, more of the fields have to be taken out in the 23rd concession round. When we signed this agreement in the cooperation statement, we definitely did not expect to be there today, with an allocation from the government that includes the areas in the northeast and north of the 23rd concession round, and that with the latest professional assessments is within what is to be considered the ice edge zone. If you have other professional assessments, they must be carried out. It's not up to us to define where the edge of the ice is. It is up to us to have processes on which to calculate this professionally. And then, in this case, the Left will definitely vote for the most north-east and north-east parts of the 23rd concession round to be taken out of the award. On the very issue of the impact of the Paris agreement on the Norwegian petroleum industry: from the left we disagree entirely with the representative Tina Bru, who says that we do not need a petroleum tax commission. If that's what we really need, it's setting up a new group, a petroleum tax commission to look at how we're going to set up the framework conditions in a situation where we know that consumption has to go down internationally – not tomorrow, not the year after, but over decades it has to be reduced, with the consequences it will have for Norwegian oil and gas production. Then we also have to prepare our tax system for how we're going to align with this. We had the previous Commission in 1999. Then the lighter fusion system came in as a proposal. Now it should definitely be re-assessed, given that there are fields so far north, so far away from land that at least you can't take it as a matter of course that even if you have found one, they will be driven over time. Then we have to review the system to see if we are not now taking too much risk from the state, and that this is a system that is not rational, neither for risk, for the state economy, nor for the state as an actor. Finally, emissions in production – it must also be reduced. Looking at the system today, with the CO2 tax we have on the socket, it is clear that it is too low both to trigger the necessary power from land measures and to have any waste gas deposit as an alternative. We also need to have a completely different pressure on reducing emissions during production in the decades to come. With that, I take up the proposal that the Left shares with the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1665	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1668	My former party leader Finn Gustavsen in his time said that a politician is one who is so hard-skinned that he can stand upright without a spine. I wonder what he would say about those politicians who say that the climate objectives in Paris should have nothing to say about our main contribution to climate change, namely the oil sector. Here I believe it is important to take over the Paris agreement we have had. Our initiative to get an analysis of what the Paris climate agreement and the 1.5 degree target should have to say for the oil sector is not, as the representative Arnstad said, to wind up the oil sector, but to get an honest and open debate. But I understand why we don't get the majority if that's how it feels like it. Let me give you four good reasons why it's irresponsible of the majority not to agree to an independent investigation. First of all, I think it's irresponsible in terms of the climate because we know that even with the 2 degree goal, we had four times more fossil resources in the world, at least, than what is possible to extract if we're going to have a two-thirds chance of preventing global warming of 2 degrees. Now we know that that number is much, much larger. We have too many fossil resources to reach the 1.5 degree point. What should then be the motivation to give the bottom gas to the North Pole and look for more – it is completely incomprehensible to me. I think it's irresponsible in terms of the climate, but it's irresponsible, too, because once a large investment has been made in the petroleum sector, which is in some way under depreciation, the marginal costs of further exploitation and extraction of the oil resources will be so low that it can help set a much, much lower price than the price needed to prevent socio-economic unprofitable extraction of fossil resources. The second is that it is irresponsible in view of the state treasury. Everyone who looked at the tax statistics for January 18th this year, which was launched by the SSB, so it shows 50 pst. falls in the petroleum tax, after a decrease of 25 pst. last year – 50 pst. down, down, down, It is precisely because the depreciation of large investments is difficult, while the price of oil is lower. There's every reason to believe that the price of oil will continue to fall in the time to come, if we move towards a climate policy that actually works to bring us closer to the 1.5 degree point. The third is that it is irresponsible in view of the economic transformation that we are going to have in Norway. The longer we continue to say to the business community in Norway that there is going to be oil in the future, we will delay the transition – which is necessary – towards other industries. So the allocation of 23rd concession rounds and, furthermore, the TFO awards is a policy where the government 100 pst. This is based on the expectations of the future and what can be achieved on the business side. The fourth thing that is irresponsible – but it goes more to the government’s supporting parties – is, I believe, that extracting oil as far north as you do, on the edge of the ice, is unaccountable for nature protection. I just want to say that I don't understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have a cooperation agreement with the government that says you shouldn't drill the ice edge, accepts that the government places its indiscriminate calculations of where the ice edge is, on the basis of its allocation in the 23rd concession round, despite the fact that the Storting rejected them 100 pst. last year. There are many things that point in the direction of a conversion. Total gas consumption in the EU is going down. Government parties are constantly promoting and saying that there is going to be a need for a lot of gas in the EU during the coming period and that it is necessary for Norway to maintain its position. Well, look at the statistics – gas consumption is falling due to the energy efficiency improvement that the EU is pushing through, an energy efficiency improvement that governments are refusing to implement in Norway. The energy consumption surfaced. Decentralised management of energy consumption comes as a shot – we will discuss it in the Energy Communication later. With this comes market organisations that reduce the need for the energy we extract. The progress party says that we are running away from our responsibility. No, we don't, but of course we say what the Progress Party says when they sit in government: when they say that they would like to have fewer toll stations, we say that we should have come even further in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but we are proud that it fell in our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1690	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1693	Yes, I would like to address the proposals we have with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1698	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1701	In this case, a large number of important and sensible environmental proposals have been promoted and are being voted down, one by one, a little later today. There is an alliance between the Workers' Party and the government that ensures that we continue to pump Norwegian creative power, Norwegian capital and Norwegian state subsidies into a completely meaningless exploration activity today. Let me describe what's the main problem of continuing with this: The world has already found too much fossil energy. What's the point of looking for even more? What's the point of looking for even more when we've actually found the whole five to ten times more than the climate tolerates? What's the point of looking for more when we know that even in a scenario where all coal production had stopped today, they already knew the oil and gas reserves would be too big? What is the point of looking for more in areas where production is so expensive that it will not be competitive when the demand for oil shrinks as a result of actual follow-up to the Paris Agreement? UN climate chief Christiana Figueres said in an interview last year, ‘no’ on whether there is room for oil and gas from the Arctic within 2 degrees. Do the representatives of the Right, Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party believe that there is more room for oil and gas from the Arctic now that ambitions have increased to 1.5 degrees, and when the carbon budget has been halved once more? Since the SV’s proposal was promoted in this Chamber in February, the outlook in the Norwegian economy has not improved significantly. Unemployment is closely linked to lower activity in the oil and gas sectors. One of the government's replies has been the offer of 40 new blocks in the Barents Sea in connection with the 23rd concession round. But the investment in oil is, as I said, not the right medicine for the increasing unemployment we are now seeing. The world is changing away from fossil energy. Germany has had several single days as the entire power supply has been from renewable energy resources. They may not need Norwegian gas in the future. In Portugal, they have just had four consecutive days when renewable energy has covered their entire energy needs. Europe is moving away from fossil energy, and they need to continue if we are to be able to achieve the climate goals we have set. The government has just handed over a report from the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, which points out that one of the main challenges for the Norwegian economy is that we need to reduce our oil dependence. If we do not cope with the transition, we risk even higher unemployment and more long-term unemployed in the coming period. We can no longer ignore these trends. The Greens put forward proposals to stop the 23rd concession round already in 2014. In the two years that have passed, we have – in our view – received a number of confirmations that this was a clever proposal. Therefore, I have to conclude by saying that it is a little surprising and a little scary that only SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens today are voting in favour of stopping 23rd concession round. In fact, the oil found in areas not defined as particularly vulnerable by the Environment Directorate is as harmful to the climate as the oil in those areas. Today's treatment means that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are also associated with the government and the Workers' Party and support the implementation of a concession round that could be the biggest error investment in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1718	I think there have been many good posts already, so I will try to be brief. The climate challenge is a global challenge that needs to find its solutions globally. That is why the Paris Agreement is so important. Today, almost all countries in the world are behind the important effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Before the Paris agreement, there was a lot of talk about it, but it was only here in Western Europe that was really action. The Paris Agreement also gave us a significant increase in the level of ambition. It is in isolation good, while demanding that we also increase the focus on identifying the most cost-effective measures first. I would like to mention an example of such an action that could lead to a significant reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions. It is if petroleum production worldwide was subject to only one of the measures we have been using on a Norwegian base for more than 40 years: the ban on burning gas to get rid of it, i.e. the ban on flaring, which has existed on a Norwegian base for more than 40 years. This would only contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions in West Africa that is greater than the total Norwegian emissions. In Norway, as on many other bases in the world, the oil industry is facing a difficult time. There is something that we, on the part of the authorities, the Storting and the industry will meet more easily because of the high degree of predictability in the oil policy that the oil industry has enjoyed for almost 50 years. I am pleased that a significant majority in the Grand Duchy today is still standing on these clear, clear, predictable lines. This is one of the reasons why the oil industry in Norway is less affected by the difficult situation we face than by the sockets in other parts of the world. But in these frameworks there is also a tight framework for how we operate this activity, both in terms of emissions to the sea and in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Then I am also happy that at Stortinget's treatment of Meldning. St. 13 for 2014-2015 on new emissions obligation by 2030 and joint solution with the EU, the Storting strongly endorsed the government’s approach. What we know is that the non-quota sector in the EU should reduce its emissions by 43 pst by 2030. Unfortunately, the distribution of efforts remains unclear. Work is now under way both in the EU and in the Ministry of Climate Change. But we also know, and this ended last year, that the ETS sector in Europe is going to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 compared with 1990. I fully agree with the majority that ETS should and must be the most important drive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the ETS sector, but positive measures need to be added. That is why this government has strengthened, for example. Enova’s ability to work with measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, both in the mainland and in oil and gas production. However, I do not agree that the CO2 tax does not lead to power from land. Because there are no countries in the world that use so much renewable energy in their oil and gas production. And the only two working carbon capture plants in Western Europe are on a Norwegian base. They have been decided on the basis of the CO2 tax. We also know that we are using less energy in the production of Norwegian pedestal than any other pedestal in the world. But it is the quota obligation, which we all agreed on in this Chamber, at least a significant majority, last year, which sets the limits on how much emissions can come from the EU's quota-based sector, and that is the production on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1747	I really only have one question, and that's: does Tord Lien have any scenarios that show how big a room there is for Norwegian oil and gas within a 1.5 degree scenario?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1752	I'm sure the Council of State has an answer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1755	There is no doubt that we will be able to deliver on the track that the Paris agreement puts us on, we will have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, from agriculture and from the energy systems globally. There's no doubt about it. It's going to mean that we need to produce more renewable energy, and it's probably also going to cause us to use much less fossil energy. But fossil energy is not just fossil energy. There is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions from coal are the major driver of global climate change, and we also know that replacing the power produced from coal with the power produced from gas halves the greenhouse gas emissions. It also has to be part of this equation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1760	With all due respect, Tord Lien didn't answer what I asked him about. Especially within a 2-degree scenario, it was that quite a lot of the oil and gas found in the world had to stay lying down. Now we're going to say well below. The government of which Tord Lien is part has ratified and sent to Stortinget an agreement that says that we should «well below» 2 degrees – in other words well below 2 degrees – and have an ambition to prevent global warming of 1.5 degrees. We got a statement from the Mountain Centre that shows that we've already passed the point where we've added so much carbon to the atmosphere that it's less than 90 pst. chance that we can reach the goal of 1.5 degrees – then we'll talk about if we had turned off all fossil use today. So my question is, is it that Tord Lien has seen a single 1.5 degree target scenario that says something about how much oil and gas from the North Sea there will be room for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1765	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås asks questions – reply to the Council of State, Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1769	I am a little uncertain about what that point came from – but just as full! There's no doubt that we're going to reach the 2-degree target or the 1.5-degree target, that means fossil energy resources are going to lie down. But it's not like there's any difference between the CO2 emissions that come, whether they come from coal, oil or gas. A significant part of the greenhouse gases that have already been emitted come from the production of coal or coal burning, and the main finding of energy resources remaining that have not been produced is coal resources. Then, too, if the world succeeds in achieving this goal and ensures that so much renewable energy is available, the market will also ensure that oil and gas resources remain. But it must be the least profitable resources that remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1779	The Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate advise not to search the northernmost areas, the vulnerable areas of the ice edge. How does the State Council assess the blocks in these vulnerable areas allocated, in the light of an active management responsibility and a precautionary principle, which underpins government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1784	I am aware that there are shared opinions both in the Storting and in the administration as to whether these blocks should have been advertised. I would like to remind you that this year we have been actively producing oil and gas, looking for and producing oil in Norway, for 50 years. We have made this clear within a framework that has prevented a significant impact on the natural environment in Norwegian seas. These include: because we have made strict demands on companies that wherever they operate, this must be done within a sound framework. That will also be the case for the operations in the Barents Sea when they get started, hopefully from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1789	It is not about whether or not there is a sound framework – it should be lacking – it is about whether or not it is within the edge of the ice, whether or not it is in vulnerable areas, which is the crucial point. The Council of State stated that the quota price set the Norwegian cap rate for emissions. It really isn't. It is the oil price that will set the future framework for how much activity there will be on the Norwegian base. We know that with the Paris Agreement we're going to extend it to 1.5 degrees, and only in Norway we're going down 50 pst. emissions in the transport sector up to 2030. We are not alone, other countries too will have to reduce their consumption significantly. Then it has to be that you also have a reduction in the consumption of oil with the consequence it has for the price. When 25 pst. of the Norwegian economy is in the petroleum sector and we have 25 pst. the emissions there are being asked by the Council of State: is the Council of State willing to look at an investigation into the consequences of the Paris Agreement for the petroleum sector in Norway in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1796	I would first like to say that I believe that the representative of Elvesuen may have hastened somewhat when he concluded that we will be charged 50 pst. cut in the transport sector. We agree that we should work for 43 pst. cut in the non-quota sector, of which transport is part. This means, of course, that we also have to expect significant reductions in our transport sector in Norway. As regards the issue of the Paris Agreement and the Norwegian oil and gas industry, I would say that we have chosen to use general framework conditions as quota obligations. The allowances are going to be more expensive in the future, it has at least this government worked for, with good support from the Left. We have a high charge to emit CO2, and it's clear that the oil market should be affected so that resources also remain on the Norwegian base, that's part of what we obviously have to deal with, but it's the companies that make the commercial decisions about and how to expand the field, within the framework that we set by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1806	If it's 50 pst. In 2030 or 2032, we'll see in the agreement, but it won't stop in 2030, we're going down in the transport sector too afterwards. You're saying here that it's the oil price that's absolutely crucial, and you're saying that it could be that one gets resources that stay in the ground even in Norway. I'm absolutely sure it's going to be like that. You're saying that it's the companies that have to take the risk, and the Left fully agrees. But it is precisely for this reason that we need a petroleum tax commission that looks at the whole tax system and that assures us that it is the companies that are making the decision, not the state and the public that are taking unnecessary risks. This applies to the read-back scheme and to the amount of the tax system free of charge. My question is, does the Council of State agree that at least we need to make sure that it is the companies that take the risk, and that the state does not take undue risk in a situation where we have to expect lower consumption and lower prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1813	I spoke in my post about the large and broad consensus that has been in Norwegian oil policy for more or less almost 50 years. One of the principles underlying this consensus is the principle that it is the Norwegian people who own the oil and gas resources. It's also the principle that we have established a petroleum tax system that makes the Norwegian people, or the state on behalf of the Norwegian people, get 78 pst. of the value creation that takes place directly on the Norwegian base, plus all of the indirect income we collect both through our direct ownership through the EEAS and through our ownership to two thirds of the sovereign largest player on the Norwegian base, Statoil. I believe very much in that principle. And then I think we have a very good tax system in Norway, we probably have the best tax system for some petroleum sector anywhere in the world. But it is of course that when the Minister of Finance is present, one should be careful to reflect too much on changes in it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1818	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1823	This has become a political debate on whether we are going to have the oil and gas industry, our main industry, with us into a future. SV has never wanted an oil and gas industry to be welcomed in Norway. They have always been against it, and it has also been the Green Party in the Environment. But when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is talking about the price of oil, that we don't know anything about it, that it will be so and so low in a future, then I think we'll take it back with us. I was offshore in 1992-1993, when the oil price was $14. I was there in 2003, when it was $14. Both times it went up dramatically. We've seen an oil price of $32 barrel, and now we see it's up in the $50 barrel. I can't predict where it's going to end up in a future. I don't think anyone else can do that either. The economic cycle that affects this is probably bigger than most of us are able to take over. But I also see that in Meld. St. 13 for 2014-2015, the government receives full support from LO, NHO, Norwegian Industry, Energy Norway, Norwegian Oil and Gas, Works, Norwegian Shipowners' Association and Industry Energy for global climate challenges – and we require global solutions. There is no doubt that Norway has been the EU’s alibi to promote climate and environment in Europe for 25–30 years, replacing the use of coal with Norwegian oil and gas. I just have to say that on the day the concession rounds were issued, there was a happy day in North Norway. People were happy, they saw that this could mean growth, income, nutrition, and so I think it's scary to see that the Christian People's Party, Left, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens don't want to award the concession round. In terms of terms, we want the whole oil and gas sector to be stepped down, in other words, our main industry, our main economy. This would be a tragedy for North Norway. It would be a tragedy for the industry, and it would be a tragedy for our economy if this had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1837	The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are in favour of taking out the northernmost parts of the 23rd concession round. That's because, according to the last professional basis we have, it's inside the ice edge, and it's vulnerable areas. The values in these areas are important for both Finnmark and the rest of the country that we take care of. Norway should not be the country in front of moving into what is defined as the edge of the ice. It gives a precedent, not just for Norway, but for the whole Arctic. This allows others to look quickly at the same areas. We don't have any interest in that. What it's about – also for Finnmark – is that we have to take seriously the risk when we get a situation where we know that we need to reduce fossil fuel consumption, including oil, in the years to come. The world has to do that. Then it is – at least it should be – that one opens up to analyse what scenarios we are facing if, and when, we succeed in the Paris Agreement, when one should not only reach 2 degrees, but towards 1.5 degrees, what consequences it will necessarily have for Norwegian petroleum activity as well. If we look at other places, changes can happen quickly. We now have a situation where the world's largest private coal company – is well – is about to go bankrupt in these days. If you look at the energy companies, whether it's RWE or Vattenfall in Germany, it's probably pretty much the value of them melts away. Changes happen quickly when they first come. It is then necessarily the same for Norway, with the investments we have in the petroleum sector, that we should carry out the necessary analyses of whether we are going to make changes to what is in the Paris Agreement and the reductions that need to be made there. So once again, a petroleum tax commission is not something we should just have, it's something we really need. We need these analyses, so that we don't make mistakes, and so that we don't take undue risk on behalf of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1849	A brief comment on Jan-Henrik Fredriksen's intervention at the end of the debate. Firstly, I would just like to stress that we in SV have not voted against all the oil extractions that are, but we have been against a good deal of expansions of the areas in which we are looking, and a good deal of very concrete expansions – that is quite correct. But we've never been against the whole oil industry as such. As many people know, in the last 20-30 years, we have voted in favour of a number of extensions. So that's the second point. That's the claim that this is something we're doing to shut down the oil industry. No, this is something we do because we want knowledge. I just have to say: I think it is alarming that there is such a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that, on the one hand, believes that the global agreement in Paris was a major breakthrough for international climate work, that it was fantastic that we set up new targets, the 1.5-degree target, but at the same time refuses that this could have consequences for Norwegian oil and gas policy, and refuses to put down a public sample that will go through this. If it's our biggest industry, if it's our most important industry, and we're going to review the maybe greatest changes in the energy market that's happened in 100 years, it wouldn't make sense to investigate what kind of scenarios exist, what kind of consequences this might have, how we can figure out possible ways to get out of this in a good way, instead of just driving straight into a very hard iceberg, having the price straight for it, and not being prepared for what happens if we hit it? I think it's strange that all of the parties that say we have to open up to look for more oil, because what's wrong with the knowledge that there might be oil somewhere out there are the same parties that say no, we don't need to know what's going on with the climate target that we've set ourselves, and what kind of consequences it should have for the Norwegian oil sector. I'm worried about that. Because what we're doing is we're publishing a series of new oil awards. What we do by saying that the long-term course of oil policy should be firm from the time before we knew about the dangerous climate change, to the time when we have set new, strong and ambitious targets because it is necessary to stop the dangerous climate change, is to build up a number of actors out there who have the opposite interests of what we have in this room. Just to finish very simply: Jan-Henrik Fredriksen was in on all those who were for the line that is now lying, saying, global solutions. So there are a number of actors, most recently at the government's climate change seminar, who said very clearly, among other things. Christian Rynning-Tønsen, that it is not possible to discuss climate policy without discussing oil policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1862	The representative of Elvestuen discusses the Arctic. Then I find reason to remember that I am one of a relatively large number, both in government and at large, who was born in the Arctic. We have an Arctic in Norway where it lives half a million people. Not only is it the sovereign most densely populated Arctic region in the world, it actually lives about as many people in the Norwegian Arctic as in the five other Western Arctic nations. It is precisely because the climate in the Norwegian Arctic is totally different from the climate in Arctic regions elsewhere in the world, as defined internationally. Despite this, oil activity is not only driven in the Arctic, but more or less through thick ice on a full-year basis in all the Western countries, as well as, obviously, Russia. The exception is, of course, Sweden and Finland, but they do not operate in the Arctic for entirely natural reasons. In Norway, climatic conditions are quite different. In the open part of the Arctic, there has not been any ice edge as defined in the management plans for the last 17 years, but it is of course such that in the Barents Sea – in line with all other Norwegian sea areas – industry will be confronted with conditions of operational activity ensuring that both biodiversity and other industries will be taken into account. So it's said a lot about oil and gas. Oil consumption is record high. There has never been as much oil as it is now. Then at least I think that even from a climate perspective, it is better that the oil is produced in a country that has the most stringent framework for it. Unfortunately — or fortunately, depending on the eyes that see — we have produced over half of the oil on Norwegian soil. It's essentially gas that's left. When you say you're going to stop using gas with the very first, it's the exact opposite of what the EU says. The EU itself says in its strategies that they will use as much gas in 15 years' time as they do today. In addition, knowing that gas production in the 28 EU countries is falling sharply means that there is room for increased imports of gas. The question can then be asked: Where is it best that this gas comes from in a climate perspective and from a security of supply perspective — from Norway, from other countries in our neighbourhood or beyond? I have tried to explain what my answer to that question is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1889	Thank you so much for the opportunity to discuss this which is perhaps the biggest joke ever revealed in the automotive industry. It has enormous consequences. It has enormous consequences for people because it turns out that the emissions from cars do not meet the targets set as a requirement that Norway has foreseen as a requirement. In their own laboratory tests they make this work, while in the large picture – in reality – it turns out that no cars actually meet the requirements for emissions. This applies, inter alia, to: emissions of NOx, which is an important gas causing human health problems, both in this city, in Bergen – as I see it sitting representatives from here – and in many other cities around the world. The other side of this, and the specific Norwegian, which I intend to go into afterwards, is that in Norway we have a charging system where we base ourselves on the figures that car manufacturers have for emissions of different exhaust gases. There was a broad majority in the Storting that went over to a exhaust gas-based emission system, and now it turns out two main things: one is that the vast majority of cars emit much more and consume much more fuel than what is stated, and that the gap between what is reported and what is actually going on has increased significantly over the last decade. This obviously leads to a loss of significant tax revenue when the car charges to the state are lowered due to incorrect information from the car manufacturers. The other thing that happens is that consumers are being tricked. When you sit and choose which car to buy, you obviously look at the used car price, and you look at the car's history of wear and tear and how much maintenance is needed. But there is no doubt that the price of the car, which is partly determined by car charges, and the fuel consumption of the car is quite crucial for many consumers. When it turns out that the size of the car manufacturers indicates grossly incorrect figures for this in relation to reality, it means that a pile of ordinary consumers are tricked every single time they fill the tank, because the car manufacturers say that they should actually have used much less fuel than what you do. So the question is how much of this is illegal, and how much of this is a culture in the car industry – which it is necessary to take action to get something done about it. I've challenged the government on this. We see that the State pension fund abroad has sued Volkswagen, which has been well documented as having been cheating, and which has had programs to cheat on its emissions figures. The second is, who is raising the voice on behalf of all consumers who are now sitting and being tricked? I intend to go through something: I have, among other things, have been made to review the state of things in different countries, and a little about the challenges associated with the measurement systems we have. And I'm eagerly waiting for what Siv Jensen will answer that she and the government are going to do. There's a lot of new information out there and going. On 24 April this year the British Government presented a comprehensive study which concludes that no other car companies have used similar manipulation software as the Volkswagen Group. It's Volkswagen who are the big ones who were revealed to have cheated. This does not mean that other companies have not cheated, for the study conducted by the UK government, that no diesel cars comply with emission requirements – the minimum requirements to be allowed to sell them at all. No diesel cars sold in Europe comply with the emission requirements in real traffic. The German government has carried out a similar study where Volkswagen, Mercedes Benz and Opel carry out a voluntary recall to upgrade the software in the cars to reduce NOx emissions. In addition, the study showed irregularities in cars from 11 other car manufacturers: Renault, Alfa Romeo, Chevrolet, Dacia, Fiat, Hyundai, Jaguar, Jeep, Land Rover, Nissan and Suzuki. And according to a look-up in The Telegraph, it is estimated that the diesel engine emission reduction systems are switched on only over a certain temperature to increase the life expectancy of the engines. This has led to much higher emissions at lower but normal temperatures. If we go in and look at the consequences this has had in different countries, then the Volkswagen group has admitted cheating and set aside 16.2 billion. EUR to cover possible fines, actions and costs for the recall of cars. The Norwegian oil fund is one of the owners who will go to trial against Volkswagen, and the big question is: What does the government do to ensure that Norwegian consumers and the Norwegian State also get their share of the money that Volkswagen has spent, so that people get compensation for having been tricked, and that the state gets compensation for the fact that the income of the one-off fee has become lower than they should have been? Volkswagen has signed an agreement with the US authorities to buy back or modify 482,000 Volkswagen and Audi diesel vehicles from US consumers. In addition, Volkswagen shall enter into an agreement with the US authorities to pay fines for having sold illegal cars. My question to the Council of State is: what does the Council of State do to ensure that we do the same in Norway as they have done in the United States? In addition to the United States, the authorities of the United Kingdom, Italy, France, South Korea, Canada and Germany have launched an investigation into the Volkswagen scandal, and I ask the Council of State: what does the Government do to have the Volkswagen scandal investigated in Norway? Volkswagen reports that they will recall all cars that are subject to the EU and EEA emission requirements, and according to The Telegraph, this will result in cars complying with the requirements of the authorities and therefore consumers cannot expect Volkswagen to buy back the cars. A number of other car brands also warn that they are going to update the software in their cars as a result of the revelations that have arrived. Renault has recalled 15 000 cars that had much higher emissions in real traffic. They say it's about the calibration of the cars. Mitsubishi Motors admitted, as I also say in the interpellation, in 2016 that they cheated on the Japanese approval tests, and that they have done it since 1991. According to a press release from the company, cheated cars include produced for the Japanese market, and the trick has been using US tests to measure consumption instead of using tests required for the Japanese market. Suzuki has admitted a mismatch between fuel consumption and emission tests for 16 models, and one sees the same for several of the other brands. So it's the other side of this case, which is not about actually going in and changing the software or doing something about the technical things of the cars, which is obviously wrong. The second major problem is that very many car manufacturers, especially in recent years, have had an increasing deviation between the test cycles they run and the actual emissions that are. You run in special ways, you lose windows again, you peel off the car deck – you do a lot of things with the cars to make sure to slow down the fuel consumption and the NOx system. The type-approval in Europe uses the New European Driving Cycle test, which was developed in the 1970s. It is a problem that you have since 2002, when you had an anomaly of about 10 pst. between actual emissions and reality, has gone to 35 pst. deviation from reality in 2014. And it's estimated that you'll get 50 pst. deviation towards 2020 – 49 pst. or about 50 pst. – if you continue to use this test. Then it is seen that in the EU another type of test will be introduced, which will have lower deviations than the one used in the year, but also it is expected to have a real deviation in 2020-2025 between 23 pst. and 31 pst. Then my question to the Council of State is simply: When you see the system in the EU – with so much difference between the reality and the things measured in the factories – is this something that the Council of State can accept and live with? And in that case, what does the Council of State think she should do with this in order to prevent fraud against the state treasury and fraud against ordinary consumers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1928	Recent cases have revealed inconsistencies in the measurement of fuel consumption and exhaust emissions of passenger cars. The case concerns several car brands and writes from several countries. First out was the Volkswagen case, which came up in the United States last spring. Here it was discovered that the manufacturer has programmed several of his diesel models to recognise test situations and optimise, among other things. the subsequent NOx emissions. Worldwide, around 11 million vehicles are affected, of which around 150 000 are Norwegian. I have previously commented on this matter in two answers to questions from the representative Grovevan and the representative Elvesuen respectively. In the wake of the Volkswagen case, the German approval authorities have tested diesel cars from a total of 18 car manufacturers in order to verify to what extent the exhaust emissions correspond to the values of the type-approvals. The Swedish Road Administration informed me that the investigation revealed deficiencies in the cleaning of the exhaust gas on a large proportion of the cars that were tested. There is no direct juxtaposition here, as in the Volkswagen case from the United States, and the type-approved emission and consumption values are still valid. Affected car manufacturers have announced that they will carry out a voluntary recall and upgrade of the cars. The case from Japan, to which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås also refers, applies after I have been informed by the Tax Directorate, only the vehicle sold in Japan, and seems so far to have no significance for Norwegian conditions. The inconsistencies in the measurement of fuel consumption and exhaust emissions could have consequences for Norwegian conditions in several relationships. Firstly, it has one side to the Norwegian one-off charge, since it is calculated on the basis of emissions of CO2 and NOx. Secondly, matters may have an impact on the vehicle technical legislation since the cars in question could be authorised and registered on the wrong premises. Trixing also has a consumer aspect and a criminal law aspect. With regard to the charging calculation, I would first like to point out that the basic data used in the calculation of the one-off charge are taken from the motor vehicle register. These are again based on the common European type-approvals. The link between the one-off fee and the technical file in the motor vehicle register is a prerequisite for the system we have today. Consequently, road authorities are responsible for recording and checking the basic data. This should also be the case, since the road authorities have professional competence. It also means that any recalculation of the charge as a clear starting point assumes that road authorities change the original emission values of the motor vehicle register. Several studies are now being carried out at European level to clarify the scope of the various cases and whether the approved emission values need to be adjusted. In the Volkswagen case, German road authorities are now working with the ongoing approval of new software for the affected cars. The cars are called up and upgraded as the software is approved. The Swedish Road Authority states that the approval process will take longer than initially assumed, but no further delays have been announced in the upgrade of the cars themselves. The Tax Directorate, together with the road authorities, follows these processes and assesses the ongoing need for more detailed action in Norway. It is currently premature to conclude on the outcome of these processes and whether there will be recalculations of the one-off charge in the cooling water of the cases in question. The normal procedure for recovery of the deferred tax is by after-calculation against the taxable person. In this case, it would basically say the individual car dealers. In this context, an additional charge may also be imposed where there is a deliberate or negligent infringement by the taxable person. So far, it has not been assessed whether anyone other than the charging entity, e.g. car manufacturers, alternatively, may be liable for any tax evasion on a claim basis. However, I will not completely rule this out. Where appropriate, it is necessary to consider whether the country has incurred other losses which may be required to be recovered. I have stressed on several occasions that it is not appropriate to make each car owner responsible for the fee. However, the traction with the exhaust emissions could have an impact on the owner of these cars, in addition to the charging aspects of the case, and those who have purchased cars with which they are cheated could be able to make claims against the dealer or directly against the manufacturer. This is initially a question of private law that needs to be addressed in accordance with the general rules in this area. There will be several ways of resolving these issues, e.g.: by repairing vehicles in such a way that they comply with the intended emission values. If this is not possible, compensation and, in the utmost consequence, cancellation may be required. It is my impression that the car manufacturers are willing to go far to meet the customers who have been hit. For the time being – and I emphasise it for the time being – I see no reason why the public should intervene in this part of the problem complex. Then it is up to the judicial authorities to follow up on the criminal aspects of these cases. Ecocrim announced in the autumn that they had opened investigation proceedings against Volkswagen in order to determine whether there has been a criminal offence in Norway and whether this has had any impact on the vehicles introduced and registered here. The studies are still ongoing and, following information from Ecocrime, they await the outcome of the processes now being carried out by the German authorities. After this, Ecotrim will assess whether there is a basis for going further with the case. I assume that Ecokrim also has an eye for the other matters that have recently been revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1965	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I would like to thank her for the feedback on some of the things that are going on. I think it is good that Ecokrim does the job of investigating what has happened in Norway. Nevertheless, it would be like the car dealers operating in Norway, the manufacturers of the cars are, after all, somewhere else. It will be a question which concerns, in particular, criminal acts that have been committed outside the borders of the state, and then I believe it is natural for the government to take a review of what kind of legal basis or what opportunities it has to sue them if it turns out that Ecokrim says that this is actually not possible to follow up from the Norwegian side. Then we'll just have to wait together in excitement and see what happens. The second part is that I am happy that the Council of State says very clearly that it will not be relevant for the individual to have an increased one-off fee. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. It would be grossly unreasonable if the individual who had bought a car in good faith would have increased the one-time charge as a result. But then it would be reasonable to decide how to deal with what was actually going to be an increased charge claim and where to address this requirement. The Council of State said that it is the individual car dealers in Norway – the importers or the sellers, or the sum of them. I also believe that it would make sense to assess whether this is something that should be directed directly at the foreign manufacturers of the cars. I'd like to hear what the council thinks about it. It is clear that those who are car dealers in Norway will also be uncertain about the further status of this. The third side of this case is all of the people who have been tricked. I would like to say that, on the part of the government, one should engage in dialogue with the Norwegian Automobile Association in order to look at how to follow them up, and whether that is something that the state should possibly contribute. They say very clearly that they would like to bring an action against the car manufacturers if they find out that there is a basis for this. I believe that it would be reasonable for the government, as authority and as guardian of the consumer rights for all, to contribute to the attainment of justice, by supporting this. The last thing is that it is quite obvious that with the emissions that are now, it should be worrying – and I would like to hear what the Council of State says about it – that all diesel cars going on the roads actually emit more than what is lawful to release to be sold as a diesel car. The consequence is that all the cars have much, much higher emissions. That means that all the cars running on Norwegian roads should have a reduced one-off charge in the time that comes, while they actually emit the same amount of fuel and the state's revenues should therefore be higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1976	Let me start by saying that my impression is that the interpellant and I really agree on the problem description, and that we are going to apply a different set of instruments, if necessary. That's really what I tried to go through thoroughly in my main post, that's all of the studies we're still doing. I believe that before we conclude, before we decide what steps we might take, it is actually essential that we know all the facts, before any new steps are taken. Then, of course, it's quite right, as the interpellant points out, that there is reason to ask some questions about the type-approval rules. They do, of course, set out how CO2 emissions and the exhaust gas level are to be measured. The measurements are then based on laboratory tests intended to reflect actual running emissions. So there's a reason to ask questions about how well these tests meet. It's definitely shared opinions about that. As I know, it is now working quite actively at European level to improve these tests, so that the basis becomes more real than it is now. But I can assure the interpellant, at least, at the very bottom of this post, that this is a matter for the government to follow closely. As I also said in my main post, we will continuously assess what possible basis there is for moving forward with new steps on the occasion of the case, on behalf of, of course, the state, but also on behalf of those who have been affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1988	Does the interpellant want the word? No one else has joined the debate, and that means that we are in the closing comment round.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e1991	The reason for this debate – and it is strange that no one else has signed up, I just have to say – is that it is the biggest industrial scandal we have had in recent times. But let go. I just want to touch into two elements at last. I would have liked the government to be very clear on deciding to make representations to the EU authorities that we want those tests, because there are different test regimes in the pot in terms of measurement. I hope the Council of State can give me feedback that our starting point and our input are to have the test regimes as close as possible to real driving. Other countries, for example, the Americans, do not allow car manufacturers to make the tests themselves, but make sure to carry out the tests themselves, so that they are given equal treatment, less opportunities for cheats and numbers that are closer to reality. Why? One of the methods now available as an alternative estimates that it will be a gap – not 50 pst. in 2020, but on 23 p.m. in 2020 — in other words, a fuel consumption of 23 pst. higher than stated. There are two reasons why this is important beyond the obvious that it can't be that the state accepts cheating. If we don't get real measurements, it's going to be harder to achieve the climate targets, because it's clear that our charging system is designed to get the most fuel efficient cars out of it. If the manufacturers' response to the requirement, i.e. the charging components we have, is more juxtaposition, or more adaptation to the system and more tricking to get the lowest possible measurements, then we do not achieve the goals we have of a more efficient, lower, climate emissions from cars. The second is that people are being tricked. According to the ICCT, the cost to British consumers increases by an average of EUR 450 per year due to the fact that the actual fuel consumption is higher than indicated. In other words, if you are concerned about climate change, you are concerned about taking large groups who are involved in cheating and fantasy, and you are concerned about ensuring that consumers are not deceived, it is important that you follow closely, with your eyes on the arctic, and use every opportunity to go to the car manufacturers – both to ensure real vehicle cycles and also to promote offensive claims. I remind you again that the United States has already done so. Several other European countries consider this. The oil fund has sued the company. And I want to think of it as quite naturally that the Norwegian authorities come back when they get all the facts on the table, and do the exact same thing, because we can't find ourselves in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2002	Let me just first make it clear that one thing is to work to get a better test basis. That in itself is beneficial. With regard to the Volkswagen case, it's not just about the tests not being good enough, but also about the fact that it's regular jokes, which, after all, you have to take into account in this particular case. But let me link some comments to what the interpellant said about achieving the climate goals. I totally agree with that. Now we have spent a lot of time on a new conversion of the one-off charge for the car just to contribute to behavioral changes and that more people want to buy fuel-rich and environmentally friendly cars on a larger scale than before. It is, of course, linked to the fact that you have to get what you pay for and be sure that the products you actually buy deliver the results that the advertising suggests they do. I fully agree with that. That's a prerequisite for us to achieve our goals. I believe that a very important part of how to achieve those objectives also for the transport sector is using positive instruments. At a time when many depend on the car as a means of arriving, they should also be able to make environmentally friendly choices through a positive way of using the charging regime. But then it has to be right. In conclusion, I can only assure you that we are following this very closely, and as I said in my main post, we have not finally concluded that there is a need to take new steps from the government on behalf of the state, or so far on behalf of the affected, but we will conclude when we get all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2011	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2028	While this interpellation has been under treatment, the government has already taken steps to present its proposal on how country-by-country reporting for tax purposes should be done in Norway. They've done that in Prop. 120 L for 2015-2016. But it is true, as the president says, that in June 2015 the Stortinget decided that country-by-country reporting legislation in the extractive industries – or requested – to be correct – should include companies and capital flows in and through third countries. This proposal is also announced in Prop. 120 L for 2015 –2016 that the government will return to during the year. But in this proposition, which is really about something else, we get the answer to how the government thinks Norway should implement country-by-country reporting for tax purposes in line with the OECD BEPS recommendations. The starting point for this interpellation is the question of whether it makes sense to look at harmonisation between the two legislations we receive for country-by-country reporting. In the proposal and in the draft consultation, the government describes country-by-country for the extractive industry as a legislation with the primary purpose of making the authorities of countries where companies operate the extractive industry responsible. The description meets with some criticism from a group of hearing bodies, and the ministry also writes that the regulations intend to make unwanted tax adaptations visible. This has also been clear to the Storting to be an important purpose for country-by-country reporting in the extractive industry, and this has also led to the following Decision on 19 June 2015: ‘The government is asked to review the impact of the regulations on LLR reporting, measured against the Stortingen’s objective of making undesired tax adjustment visible and ensuring that relevant information related to country-by-country reporting from subsidiaries and third-country support functions appears in the accounts.’ This has also not been sufficiently followed up by an overall finance committee, and it is therefore positive that the government is now saying that it will come back to this during 2016. Nevertheless, already existing country-by-country legislation is an important tool for civil society, press and developing countries precisely because it is open to all, and it is an objective in itself that businesses should be able to be seen in the context of the economic activity generated. It is also a little disappointing to me that the Ministry has not taken the proposals on openness into the country-by-country reporting for tax purposes as part of the legislative proposal after the consultation round where this was pointed out by several hearing bodies. Tax Justice Network and Transparency International write among others press and civil society need country-by-country information in order to be able to hold their own authorities and companies responsible. Investors need information in order to be better able to assess the real economic situation of companies, and researchers will need country-by-country information to produce new knowledge of how companies' profit movements work. We've really seen that lately, that here it's almost just the creativity that's put an end to it. They're not alone, these organizations, asking for more transparency. LO asks for more transparency, Saved Barna asks for more transparency, Changemaker asks for more transparency, Publish What You Pay asks for it – a relatively wide range of organizations. Changemaker refers, inter alia, to: the EU has introduced open country-by-country reporting for banks and the international trend towards more transparency. The Ministry of Finance refers in the proposition to the fact that it would not be wise or recommended to derogate from common requirements or common model if desired to achieve high efficiency. They also suggest that if we impose transparency requirements on us, this could lead to other countries not exchanging information with Norway. This is a type of argument that is known and that is often used not to go first when it's going to be open. But I think we'll never get anywhere if no one goes ahead and takes the leadership. I have heard representatives from all parties in this Chamber say that Norway should take and also take leadership when it comes to financial transparency. Then it's time we also made it part of the actual political work. It is also a little strange when we read further in the proposition that the government is aware that on 12 April the European Commission presented a proposal that will make the corresponding country-by-country reporting proposed in Prop. 120 L for 2015 -2016 - with some modifications - publicly and ingest such reporting as part of the EU Accounting Directive. The EU is quite a bit larger than Norway, but not as large as the entire OECD area. It would then be interesting to hear whether, in the opinion of the Department, the rest of the OECD would not be able to exchange information with EU countries if the EU were to move in that direction. The Ministry also writes that the question of transparency may be a natural response in the follow-up to the request decision of June last year. So you've had these two things to deal with for a long time at a time, but now the Stortinget is going to sit and wait nicely for perhaps more from the government - something nice descending - about openness. It is also funny that if the Minister of Finance thinks that this is the way to go - so more transparency about these questions, so you can get the impression of reading interviews with her, among other things. In today's business -- so it looks like we should sit here and wait for what the EU does rather than show leadership itself. The Ministry also points out that harmonisation of legislation may be difficult, in particular linked to a part of transparency, and I believe that the ministry also responds well and in substance to the hearings. But I can't see that they respond specifically to the proposal of the Tax Justice Network on a two-way reporting when it comes to tax purposes. This could take account of the concerns expressed by the Ministry in relation to the need for secrecy and to be able to exchange with the tax authorities of other countries in line with the OECD model proposal. Tax Justice Network has proposed that, on the basis of the fact that country-by-country information should benefit both tax authorities and public authorities, aggregated data at company level such as the number of employees, paid taxes, profits and expenditure at country level cannot be considered confidential. Therefore, such key economic information about the company should be available as a separate file and the information published. Further information that may be appropriate for use in tax authorities’ risk analysis is also sent into separate files and kept confidential. A two-part country-by-country information will lead to key key figures being publicly available, and thus also more well-known, more verifiable. We will be able to have legislation in Norway that is better and more applicable in more contexts for civil society and for pressure than the legislation recommended by the OECD, which is more limited to being an internal tool for national tax authorities. Don't get it so that it wouldn't be useful and good, but transparency offers something more that also allows more people to see what the companies are involved in, and also -- we've learned lately -- be an important door opener to open up democratic debate and bring about changes in society. My final question is: Is it now that the Council of State is fully locked in its approach to the question, or does she now want to cooperate with the Stortinget so that Norway can actually go a little further ahead in the work on financial transparency, especially in relation to this matter: country-by-country reporting for tax purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2055	Let me start by thanking the representative, Wickholm, for once again focusing his search for a topic as important as transparency requirements relating to cross-border capital flows. Let me also add that I would like to cooperate with the Stortinget on questions related to this, but of course also to other matters where we have mutual interest in continually improving the legislation. Publicly available information on cross-border payment flows is important, inter alia: to maintain the functioning of capital markets and effective tax systems. Openness and exchange of information may also make possible the visibility of undesirable tax adaptations, illegal tax evasions and capital evasion. The adverse effects of undesirable tax adaptations and illegal tax evasion are difficult to quantify, but are in any case serious and pose a threat to the income base in many countries. This is with all clarity also illuminated in connection with the so-called Panama Papers leak. The representative, Wickholm, refers in the interpellation to current country-by-country reporting as ‘an important tool for civil society, press and developing countries, while the OECD Code recommends, is narrowed to be an internal tool for national tax authorities’. Furthermore, it may appear that the representative Wickholm calls for country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities to be superfluous if an open country-by-country reporting is introduced for all companies. I agree with the representative that public country-by-country reporting is important. Therefore, we were in Norway early to introduce such requirements. At the same time, I think it is important to have own country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities that follow up the OECD proposals and that will take care of the tax authorities' information needs in order to establish the correct tax base. As the representative will be familiar with – and he is – I presented on 11 May a proposal for the Land-by-Land Report to the tax authorities proposed to apply to all multinational groups above a given threshold. The proposal has good reasons for doing so. It is a follow-up to the so-called BEPS project of the OECD and the G20 countries and is widely fanned. The general rule of this proposal is that non-resident enterprises should provide a report in which the parent company is resident. The report will then be automatically exchanged between the tax authorities of the participating countries. broad agreement has been reached on the BEPS project, including the implementation of model legislation in participating countries; It is very important that the participating countries implement country-by-country reporting requirements in line with model legislation, as this will provide a level playing field for reporting in all countries, which will both enhance the credibility of the information contained in the report, facilitate reporting by enterprises and facilitate the use of data by tax authorities. A fundamental prerequisite for the agreement in the project is that the country-by-country reports should be subject to confidentiality at the tax authorities. The lack of follow-up to this point could result in non-resident tax authorities refraining from submitting their reports received to Norway, thereby weakening the tax authorities’ control base and thereby undermining the purpose of the project. Of course, this would be very unfortunate, as it could weaken the ability of tax authorities to protect the Norwegian tax base. The Panama Papers leak shows how important it is that tax authorities, which are competent to establish the correct tax base, have good tools at their disposal in their control work. We will have a new and important tool in introducing country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities, in line with the model legislation of the BEPS proposal, and I believe that a clear, loyal and harmonised implementation of model legislation in as many countries as possible will be crucial for the desired impact of the measures. If individual countries choose to deviate from the implementation of the measures as they are designed in the project, there may be new opportunities for profit-moving and eroding the tax base. That being said, it is not that the Norwegian country-by-country legislation, either under the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act or the proposal for a new regulatory framework for tax purposes, is complete or fully developed. As regards the legislation of the tax authorities, this shall be assessed on a planned basis in 2020. Norwegian authorities can then propose changes to the model legislation if the experience we now have with the new reporting requirements as of the 2016 Equation Year indicates this. The country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities shall, on the basis of the proposal, apply to multinational groups irrespective of industry. The country-by-country reporting under the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act applies to companies and groups in the extractive and forestry industries in non-planted forests. The majority has asked the government, among other things. ensuring that relevant information relating to reporting by subsidiaries and support functions in third countries is provided in the accounts, but this does not alter the assumption that these reporting requirements relate only to activities in those sectors. However, the regulatory framework is to be evaluated and it is possible that the evaluation will demonstrate that the public reporting legislation under the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act could be useful in other sectors as well. The legislation in force is intended to help to shed light on the activities of enterprises in the countries where the extractive industry or forestry operations take place. The reporting rules shall contribute to greater transparency about the activities of the extractive industries in each country and thus contribute to democratic control of the management of the revenues generated by the natural resources of the countries. As the representative of Wickholm will be aware, the Stortinget, when adopting the new reporting requirements, wished that the legislation should also be aimed at contributing to the visibility of unwanted tax adaptation. This was followed up by the Ministry of Finance by including extended reporting requirements in the regulation. The Norwegian State-by-country legislation is based on EU legislation under the Accounting Directive and the Reporting Directive. With the entry into force of the Norwegian legislation already in January 2014, Norway was very early in implementing EU legislation. In addition, the Norwegian legislation is much more ambitious with extended reporting requirements for, among others: that the reports will help to make the undesirable tax adaptation visible. With this, the Norwegian authorities have had ambitions to be ahead of developments internationally. It's positive, but it can also take on some challenges. In April this year, the European Commission presented proposals on public country-by-country reporting for tax purposes. This proposal is in addition to the Commission’s proposals earlier this winter on country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities to ensure a harmonised implementation of the BEPS project in EU countries. After I have registered, the Commission's last proposal is based also on the BEPS recommendations, but not so that the regulatory sets are consistent. Therefore, the Commission does not now envisage full harmonisation of public reporting and tax reporting. It is, of course, premature to specify how possible new EEA-relevant rules on public country-to-country reporting for tax purposes are to be implemented in Norwegian law, including whether and to what extent it is to be harmonised with the applicable requirements in Norway. First, final EU rules will have to be negotiated in the European Parliament and in the Council of Europe, where there may already appear to be different views on the Commission's proposals. I will continue to follow developments related to the EU Commission’s proposal on public country-by-country reporting and also consider how a possible new EU legislation could best be implemented in Norwegian law, including the possibilities to harmonise this possible new legislation with existing Norwegian country-by-country reporting requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2087	It is very good that there is such a broad consensus in the Storting that openness is desirable, and that openness is also effective in both revealing real crimes and being with and focusing on companies that may be operating in the grey zone, and using the tax system through aggressive adaptation in a way that might not have been intended. In the case of higher transparency requirements, the companies that do so will also have to respond in the public searchlight, and for companies that have as their foundation the sale of services to the regular consumer and Norwegian public, there is a challenging gap to be made over time. That is precisely why this work is also so important. I think the Minister of Finance answers some of the challenges, and she also answered some of the issues I raised in the interview, precisely this because it might not be wise to demand full transparency in Norway because other countries will then answer that then we will not exchange information in Norway. My point is that it now looks as if it could be on the steps for the EU to propose something like this in the long term – and how will it come into the OECD Code? I would also like the Minister of Finance to think a little bit about this proposal launched by the Tax Justice Network, namely to have a secret part of the reporting where we guarantee the same things that are important in the model proposal, but also to require that you publish some key figures on the type of turnover, employees, what you do, etc., so that there is some more information there for the public to take up and measure up to what the companies actually do in this country, what they do with, and what is left on the equality certificate – if it's public in that country, and that's for example. in Norway. So that would be good. Otherwise, I hope for a good debate here in which several of the parties also express their burning desire for progressive and more transparent tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2103	I fully agree with the representative on the importance of transparency. I feel that there is really quite a broad consensus in the Storting both that we should be in front of where it is right and natural for us to do so, and at the same time work actively in international forums to ensure the widest possible participation in this type of tool. It is right, as I said in my main reply, that the European Commission is now working on a further follow-up to this. It's a little bit up until we know what they're actually going to propose, but I think I can say, from the experience I've had at least, whether I've met on behalf of Norway in the OECD or in the IMF, that these are issues that are very high on the international agenda, and how fewer countries want to hide. And that's commendable. Much of the legislation now in place will currently work ahead of us, and it will make it very unpleasant to see it as one of the few remaining countries that may not have opted to join international exchange agreements. A growing number of countries are associated with this. That's very good. That probably means that we've now seen the end of the secret team that, among other things. has been the basis of recent revelations. So the fact that there is a high level of awareness about this, both in our big business and in other parliaments around the world, I believe that we are constantly improving the regulatory framework. But it is important that we do it in such a way that we ensure that relevant information is shared between authorities, while at the same time caring for the company needs that will be there. There is also one of the reasons why there is a preliminary distinction between the different reporting criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2112	Thank you to the interpellant Truls Wickholm for addressing an important topic, which is also addressed to the Right, namely transparency related to capital flows across borders. Capital, resources and people are moving rapidly in a global economy today. The disclosures in the Panama Papers case illustrate the need for transparency and transparency in cash flows and transactions. It is a fact that secret organization helps some to avoid paying taxes on values and wealth, but even worse, the possibility of secrecy is often a prerequisite for organised crime, money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, interpellant factors emerge, namely that actors can extract natural resources from developing countries without obtaining their fair share of these values. It is in this latter context that a total increase in June 2015 decided that the legislation of LLR in the extractive industries should cover companies and capital flows in and via third countries. Every year, poor countries lose billions because of tax evasion and capital evasion. This is money that countries could spend on education, health, infrastructure and other important purposes. Tax evasion is probably a problem in most countries, but it is nevertheless the developing countries, the poor countries, that are hit hardest. The question addressed by the interpellant is how this type of information should be available. There is no doubt that full transparency is preferable, but in these cases we depend on moving in line with our international partners because the question requires an international code. In this context, this is the OECD. Norway has and should have an active driving role in the process of greater transparency, but there is a difference between actively working with our international partners and choosing a single national, which is likely to penalise our own industry and make it less competitive in a global context. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance and the Government to work actively on these issues. Norway is already a leading country in many ways in terms of transparency of capital flows. Fortunately, tax evasion and secrecy have become increasingly high both in the national and international arena. The so-called Panama Papers case shows that these issues have a political explosiveity, and it is also a powerful signal to all those who have something to hide – namely, that they cannot initially feel safe anywhere. Our digitalisation and media images allow information to be excavated, provided and disseminated in a short time. In addition, it is a fact that many countries are now more focused on providing their own tax base and see the danger of people, resources and capital moving across borders. In our home arena, this issue has also been important in dealing with the government’s tax reform, where just securing the tax base and preventing profit movements has been an important topic. I understand the impatience of the interpellant to ensure full transparency and transparency of capital flows in and through third countries. At the same time, I am pleased that, in this process, we will have a system that ensures that tax authorities have the possibility of transparency to meet the information needs of the authorities in order to establish a proper tax base through Prop. 120 L for 2015–2016, which the government promoted this month. Civil society and the press also have important tasks to do with these issues, but the most important thing here is that tax authorities receive this kind of information. Norway may not necessarily choose on the top shelf. The OECD has made a recommendation and a proposal. This also includes a requirement for confidentiality. If the Norwegian tax authorities wish to have access to this information, they must also accept the system as it now exists with its possibilities and limitations. As the Minister of Finance stated in his statement, a common approach and model legislation will provide a similar reporting in all countries, thus facilitating the reporting burden on the various enterprises and facilitating the use of the information by tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2138	Panama papers have exposed to a whole world how multinational companies that do not want to pay taxes can organise themselves through tax havens and eliminate untaxed income out of countries where income is generated, and across to countries where they are charged less or no taxes. The countermeasure against this is more financial transparency. It is difficult to maintain a practice that does not tolerate the light of day when practice has to be reported. Today's country-by-country regulation does not work as intended and cannot make any undesirable tax adjustment visible, since tax havens or costs are not transparent and the audited financial statements of the companies are not used. Extended country-by-country reporting is a prerequisite for the correct and transparent taxation of companies. The basis for all taxes is information. Extended country-by-country reporting is based on real accounting figures, it covers all countries, makes it visible, provides timely information and can be quality checked across countries or groups, it can be easily set up in notes on the annual accounts, it can make unwanted tax adjustments visible, and there are no exceptions and manipulation possibilities. It is this measure that Norway should work towards. This will change the Accounting Act § 3-3d, Reporting on payments to authorities, etc., so that we get the requirements in extended country-by-country reporting. In addition to the need for reporting to apply to all countries, there must also be a requirement that only reporting figures are required, and nothing else. The measures proposed by the OECD BEPS to ensure that multinational companies do not move profits away from taxation in the countries in which they operate are not sufficient to make any undesirable tax adjustment visible. The weaknesses of the scheme include, inter alia,: that it is not based on real figures that it does not cover all countries that it does not make all costs visible that it does not provide timely information that it cannot be quality checked across countries or groups that it is not simply set out in notes on the annual accounts that it is not public and that there are significant possibilities for exemption and manipulation. In summary, we are concerned that the BEPS reporting does not contain the requirements that can provide the necessary clarity and transparency to make unwanted tax adaptations visible, to a large extent. These types of weaknesses and opportunities for circumvention are not available in extended country-by-country reporting. By introducing extended country-by-country reporting, Norway could be a leading country for transparency and for sustainable development. I believe that everyone here in this Chamber agrees that Norway should be. My challenge to the Minister of Finance is therefore that the government must follow up the Storting's goal of expanding country-by-country reporting and make it visible that there is an unwanted tax adjustment by proposing changes to the accounting law that follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2189	There are many serious aspects to secrecy. The representative of Meling also promotes money laundering and terrorist financing, addressing in particular the problems associated with developing countries. First of all, it's estimated that for every penny we send to Africa in the form of aid, it goes out $10. 5 pst. of the money going out, is estimated to be via actual criminal activity, while something like 35 pst. is a little bit more grey-sonic -- corrupt leaders and the kind of thing. But with 60 pst. So of the money that's being moved out of a continent with many developing countries, it's happening to some of our well-known, dear, big multinationals. Getting transparency around it, getting the spotlight on how this is happening, I think, as Meling says, will be in the interest of developing countries, but also – and not least – in the interests of Western and Western economies. We like to say that Norway is in the forefront of financial transparency, but we do not occupy the top — in this context we are at the bottom — of the Financial Secrecy Index. These include: that we don't have as much openness around ownership as we could have. It's still OK to use administrator accounts and the kind of things that we could take more care of here at home if we really wanted to go ahead. So Meling says in this round we're going to be very careful about what we've got in this proposition, while I heard the Minister of Finance say that she likes to cooperate with the Storting about getting improvements. Then I choose to deal with it when Stortinget will now start working with Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I think it's interesting to see if there are any possibilities there. Is it also possible to present some information transparently within the framework of follow-up to model legislation? I don't think we should write that off here today. We have not started working on the matter itself, but I think it has been an interesting debate, which shows interest in moving on and working together on more financial transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2200	Thank you for a good debate. I think there is reason to sum up that there is a broad consensus on both the measures we have taken and the need for us to constantly and continuously assess what improvements can be made in the legislation. But I have to be quick to stress that it helps very little with great Norwegian ambitions if we don't get through to them in international agreements. That's a very basic prerequisite for increasing transparency and better information exchange, which is the whole prerequisite for breaking the tax havens. In that case, it's worth remembering some of the results we have so far with this. Norway has made a very active contribution to international work and has been a driver for increased use of transparency and, in particular, for the exchange of information over 30 years. This is not a problem that has just come to the table. We've been working on this for a long time, and there's a lot of governments that have done it. It has helped us to now have one of the world's largest tax contracting networks. The Norwegian network of tax agreements and other international agreements, where all facilitate the exchange of information for tax purposes, now includes around 140 jurisdictions, including all the jurisdictions classified by the OECD as tax havens back in the 2000s. We were also one of the first countries to enter into automatic information exchange agreements with the United States after the US introduced its FATCA legislation in 2010. It was also legislation that paved the way for the OECD's further work on automatic exchange of information. It may also be useful to mention that Norwegian tax authorities actively use tax agreements and information exchange agreements to access data from abroad. To date, around 90 requests have been sent under the specific information exchange agreements, and in the period 2011 to 2015, the tax base increased by 81,7 million. kr, and the property tax base increased by 27 million. kr. So it's obvious that these measures are effective. I just want to add that in addition, the number of voluntary corrections has increased sharply since 2007. In 2015, 384 people used this scheme, and since 2007 approximately 50 billion. kr in wealth and 2 billion. kr in income has been reported under this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2215	So the debate is on case No. 10 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2229	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2243	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2249	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2287	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 3-9, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 10-22, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Green proposals No. 23 and 24, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 25, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 26 and 27, from Knut Falk Qvigstad on behalf of the Greens
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2309	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 26 and 27, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for at least 800 million forest protection appropriations to be stepped up by the Government. krona in the budget for 2017 and at least 1 billion. EUR in the budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set the target of increasing the proportion of non-interventional nature in Norway to at least 15 pst. by 2035.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2330	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-22, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to withdraw circular H-2/14 of 17 February 2014.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work to restore intact and species-rich ecosystems in the main open-air areas around Norwegian major cities.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government asks the government to set a target for the protection of 10 pst. of the productive forest by the end of 2025 and a stage target of 5 pst. by 2020.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure that Norwegian enterprises with foreign investment, in particular in sectors where there is a risk of negative impacts on species rich, in particular vulnerable or otherwise valuable ecosystems, have to report on how they take care of natural diversity and ecosystem services in their activities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guidelines to ensure that development options are selected that do not threaten protection areas or national and international importance wetlands.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to investigate how access to independent review of decisions affecting nature and the environment by the Århus Convention can be ensured, including an arrangement for the organisation of a State natural and environmental complaint.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to establish closer cooperation with Sweden and Finland, with a view to the establishment of large, cross-border, inter-border national parks.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in cooperating with the voluntary community on how to further develop support for nature in the population.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the double-labelling of all farmed salmon by 2020, in such a way that escaped fish can be easily identified and traced back to the farm so that the responsibility for the escaped fish is entrusted to the appropriate producer. The rules shall be submitted to the Stortinget no later than the spring of 2017.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for the traffic light system to be implemented in the aquaculture industry to be in line with the quality standard for wild salmon, so that overall environmental pressures are essential for allowing further growth in the farming industry.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks in the context of the agricultural negotiations that the negotiating objective be that an increased share of the framework of the agricultural agreement should be grazing subsidies.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a new research programme under the Norwegian Research Council, which looks at ecosystem functions and ecosystem services and their links, as well as the values, status and trends of natural diversity.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a national information campaign by 2018 to increase knowledge of natural diversity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2408	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked immediately to ensure that INON is removed from the data to be included in the public map basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2422	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case on forest protection compensation schemes, which allows the option to choose between one-off compensation payment and compensation payment annually or every ten years, based on forest growth and what could have been taken out of timber if the area was not protected.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2436	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to highlight the challenges of the proposed national parks in Tysfjord/Hellemobotn and Treriksrøjsa in Troms in the context of a supplementary national park plan.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2452	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-9, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government for a Marine Protection Plan to target 10 pst. marine areas within the territorial border shall be protected and shall include proposals for comprehensive marine protected areas in marine areas outside the territorial border.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement the remaining part of the current national park plan and to implement the proposed national parks in Tysfjord/Hellemobotn and Treriksrøjsa in Troms during the current ageing/election period.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a coastal watercourse nature protection plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up state plan guidelines to prevent the destruction of ants through road, sports, land use, water storage, etc.’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government to require State Forests to avoid the highest possible level in areas with high protection values.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the automatic protection of forests over 160 years of age.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of INN as a management concept and reintroduces the ban on subsidisation of forest motorways into wild-field areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2499	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish an assistance programme for an international natural knowledge promise. The programme must help developing countries achieve the UN's sustainability objectives and the Aichi's natural diversity objectives and must be coordinated with the work of the International Natural Resources Panel and the GBIF. [[IPBES]] [[Global Biodiversity Information Facility]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for the Natural Index from the Environment Directorate to the Art Database and to entrust the Art Database with the task of developing the Natural Index so that knowledge of endangered species and habitat types, alien species of high ecological risk and population status is reflected in the indicators of the Natural Index.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2605	It's going to add up to XI and XVI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2618	It's going to add up to VI. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2631	That's right over VIII. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2644	It is votated over I and XV. The central party has announced that they will vote against it. The vote boards showed that 89 votes were cast for I and XV and 6 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.06.33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2655	President, can you register that I am for, because my voice was not registered?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2660	That also applies to me!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2665	Then I suggest we take the voting one more time, so we're sure it's going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2676	It shall be counted over II to V, VII, IX, X and XII to XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2741	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Knut Falk Qvigstad on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the initiative of an international convention regulating the production, use and handling of plastics, with a view to reducing emissions, resource use, pollution and environmental damage to global ecosystems.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2770	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to adopt directives to use the power from the network of Hammerfest LNG on Melkoya, as outlined by the Environment Directorate, or power from gas power stations combined with carbon capture and storage, in order to contribute to Norway’s achievement of its national climate target for 2020.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2845	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party 2, by Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 3, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 4-7, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4-7, by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the ongoing 23rd concession round, pending an independent knowledge-based review of which Norwegian oil there will be an opportunity to extract in the light of the Paris climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent knowledge-based review of which Norwegian oil there will be an opportunity to extract in the light of the Paris climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on the consequences for Norwegian oil policy in the light of the Paris climate agreement, based on an independent review of which Norwegian oil there will be an opportunity to extract in order to achieve the global climate objectives.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use the concession policy actively to facilitate a green shift in business and to present to the Stortinge how this is to be achieved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2891	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting a petroleum tax selection to go through the whole of Norwegian petroleum tax legislation in line with the changed framework conditions for the Norwegian petroleum sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2905	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the suspension of the ongoing allocation in predefined areas [[TFO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2919	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to award blocks in 23rd concession rounds as announced by the Environment Directorate and the Polar Institute in its hearing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2944	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-23.ana.ud443e2951	Case No. 11 and 12 are the second processing of legislative acts and refer to Acts 67 and 68. There are no proposals for comments, and the Bill 67 and 68 of the Stortinge have been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 13, Unit, was dealt with earlier today. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
