ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e80	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. A wide range of permit applications are available: from the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session, from the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session, from the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session, from the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session, from the June part-session to the session to the June part-session to the plenary session to the June part-session to the June part-session to the June part-session, from the June part-session to the session to the plenary, from the June part-session to the session to the June part-session to the plenary, from the session to the June part-session to the May part-session to the plenary to the European and with the European part-session to the European part-session, from the European and the European part-session to the June part-session to the European part-session of the May part-session of the European and the European part-session to the May part-session to the European part-session to the plenary, from the European, from the plenary, from the plenary, from the European and the European and the European part-session of the European part-session of the European part-session of the Labour-session to the European and the European Parliament to the May part-session of the European Parliament to the June part-session of the European part-session, from the European Parliament from the European and the European part-session, from the European part-session of the May part-session, from the June part-session-session, from the European part-session, from the European part-session, from the European part-session, from the European part-sessioning of the plenary, from the plenary, from the European part-session, from the June part-session, from the European part-session-sessioning of the plenary, from the European, from the European, from the European and the European and the European These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, and from other alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, respectively, applications are made for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge during Sverre Myrlis and Trond Giske's leave, respectively, due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen For Akershus County: Thore Vestby and Anne Odenmarck For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen and Monica Hauge Stiansen For the states of Hedmark: Rangdi Krogstad and Bersvend Salbu For Nordland County: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Veronica Pedersen and Jonny Finstad For Oslo: Prableen Kaur and Vegard Gröslie Wennesland For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal For Sogn and Fjordane County: Tor Bremer For the North Trondelag County: Gunnar Viken For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e253	Ferhat Güven is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e282	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e293	In this case, I believe that I will start by thanking the Committee for a good work and at the same time great endurance over several weeks. I would also like to say that this case is probably the most complicated case of the Grandningssession, both votering and legal, and there is every reason to give credit to all those who have contributed to the matter having received a thorough treatment and have been given the thorough presentation that it naturally deserves. So to the bleak rug. In recent years, there have been terrible developments in Syria and Syria’s neighbourhoods — and not just there, but in a number of countries. War, civil war, unrest, and terrorist groups have led many to flee. The neighboring country of Syria, Lebanon, with its 4.5 million inhabitants, has now accepted over 1 million refugees from Syria. Large refugee camps have been established to provide refugees with a temporary place to live. The refugee crisis is now complex and complicated. Nor should we forget that what is happening in Syria is much of the reason for the influx we saw last autumn. In the end, the most important thing is that people can safely return to their homes and contribute to the reconstruction of their country. It's hard for us to put ourselves into the situation that millions of people experience in flight. However, Norway should take its share of responsibility, and those who come to Norway should have both opportunities and be able to contribute. Norway contributes in many areas, and we contribute in many areas at the same time. When the pressure on our borders was on the most intense last year, many showed national leadership. The government and the prime minister were among those who showed great leadership, not only national but also international. Together with the Minister of Finance, the government took the initiative of an international donor country conference to increase assistance to Syria and its neighbourhoods. The UN had requested more involvement from the international community to remedy the crisis, and Norway’s response could not be clearer. Together with Kuwait, the United Kingdom and Germany, Norway invited to an international donor country conference for Syria, which had good participation from all over the world. The Heads of Government Cameron, Merkel and Solberg stood shoulder to shoulder and asked the world community to take responsibility, and the funds collected have provided tens of thousands of refugees with food, sanitation and shelter. The government committed itself to giving 10 billion. humanitarian aid over the next four years. Both the Committee and the Right continue to believe that it is important to contribute in the neighbourhoods. We believe it is better in this situation to spend the most resources on them with the most needs. At the same time, there's no doubt that each of the heads used in these neighbourhoods will give up more than each of the heads used here at home. Norway is one of the largest contributors per capita. The government also supports the ongoing work of negotiating an agreement that can in the long run create peace in Syria, and in the long run creating peace is the most important thing. Last year we built down the reception capacity because the influx of asylum seekers was so low. After the summer the numbers started to rise again, and the peak was reached in November last year. More than 31,000 asylum applications were registered in Norway during 2015, most of them in just a few months in the autumn. That's three times as many as in 2014. The extraordinary influx of asylum seekers was a huge challenge for our entire receiver. Everything from the first accommodation to reception, police, foreign administration and not least the voluntary device and us as political leaders were put under great pressure. The government acted quickly in the situation facing the country last autumn. It was absolutely necessary to put in place exceptional appropriations. On a proposal from the government, Stortinget decided to grant $9.5 billion. As a result of the increased inflow, and through broad settlements, a large majority of the Stortinget also agreed to tighten up, as well as a settlement to improve integration work. It is important that we, as political leaders, take national leadership when needed — and it was necessary. Inflows into Norway are still very uncertain. Several tens of millions of people are driven away. Right now we're experiencing that it's going to get to our country and to our limit. So it's important to remember that this can be temporary. The decline we experience is largely due to the measures taken by other European countries to strengthen border controls. Migration has led to major challenges in large parts of Europe. European cooperation, such as Schengen and Dublin cooperation, has been under pressure, and there has been a very violent meeting in the EU, where migration has been the subject. Norway has participated in this work with a view to getting the situation under control. However, Norway has also been a driving force to ensure more money for humanitarian aid in the neighbourhoods, including in particular: through that donor country conference. The government promoted on 13 November last year's first part of the contractions, as the Stortinge treated before Christmas. So the government promoted on 5 April, on the basis of the asylum agreement, the restrictions that we have today to deal with in Stortinget. I want to commend the government for having worked quickly and effectively to promote this matter for the Storting. The Committee and the Right consider it important in today's situation to ensure that asylum policy is tightened. The obligations of Norway under international law shall be respected. Those who come to Norway and have the right to protection will receive this, and we will give a good offer to the people who will stay in Norway. The government, in cooperation with its government, has made thorough assessments of the issues of international law which this type of legislative change may encounter. These assessments are based on the right when we deal with the matter in Stortinget. The proposals that have been promoted have been consulted, and there are many points of view – and sometimes also objections – that have been raised. It is important that such objections be taken seriously. The government has done that in the proposition. Some of the recordings have led to adjustments in just this, and there are consultation rounds for that. There are areas where the government and the Right would have liked to have seen that the Storting gave more support to the government. Strengthening the right to family reunification is necessary in the situation we are now experiencing. Intensifications here are what will give the best and the most effect if we think about the number of people isolated. The proposals promoted by the government relate to measures to ensure that good welfare arrangements actually exist. When we propose that we be able to support our family before everyone can come here, it is simply to ensure that the working line is followed, and to ensure that what applies to us all, that we are able to support ourselves and thus do not burden the public budget more than is strictly necessary. When we think that you must have been at work or under education for three years before you get the family here, it's because we want whoever brings the family here to be a resource person for the rest of the family and get this integrated. The restrictions proposed are temporary for three years, and we see that a number of neighbouring European countries introduce similar restrictions. Norway has measured many unaccompanied minor asylum seekers against population. We also have to take that over. Children coming to Norway alone have been through a dangerous and difficult journey. We need to provide measures that are necessary for precisely slowing the inflow, so that children do not embark on this dangerous journey. That's why there's also a need for contractions here. It's a difficult thing we're dealing with today, with strong ideological dividing lines between the parties. However, as the rapporteur, I would like to say that the matter has been well discussed in the Committee. We have held hearings with large audiences, and the members of the Committee have experienced a great deal of activity from individuals and organisations. There have been good conversations and a good tone to see if there was a basis for consensus on the proposals. It should not surprise anyone that the Right and Advance Party, as government parties, want to vote in favour of their own government proposals. We believe that all the proposals put forward by the government are important proposals that must be implemented in the uncertain time we are now experiencing. For the Right, it's been a goal to get the widest possible consensus here in the Chamber. We have also achieved this and achieved it on a number of points, including: in the case of actions at the Nordic border in exceptional situations of crisis, the 24-year family establishment requirement, the introduction of an activity requirement for family reunification and a certain self-sufficiency requirement for a permanent residence permit. I will take up the suggestions on the right behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e337	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e342	In the last six months, the right has been both in favour and against giving asylum seekers access to work prior to the completion of an asylum interview. It's almost varied from month to month what they've meant. In the integration message setting, the Right states in a note that: ‘The governance of this Communication of Integration ensures that the job of each asylum seeker is significantly easier’. In the VG a few weeks ago, Ingerd Schou said that ‘we do not want them to be able to work in the first place. Here we want the rules that exist today». Does the Right believe that the signal effect of this measure is different now than it was a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e357	Having access to work requires a few important things that lie ahead of everything that has been said from the Right, namely that you have been through an asylum interview, that you are registered and have demonstrated that you need protection, and I think the representative Lauvås is also aware that we are very clear that you must also have clarified or helped to clarify who you are. It's not that we can just get into the country people who haven't registered and cleared up their identity. Experience so far has been that some can, but some not. This is a proposal and a point of view that has been clear from the Right all along, but what we've also been clear about is that when this is done, it's fine. It should also be necessary that just the ability to get into work and take care of yourself is important, but these things are a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e362	We were six parties here at Stortinget with 161 out of 169 representatives who were behind the asylum agreement that was concluded in November. It would pay for a broad majority of the intrusions we're doing here today. Nevertheless, there is a rather fragmented attitude in many areas, despite the fact that all the decisions taken have a clear anchor in the asylum agreement. Intensifications were to be made to limit the arrival of people without a right to protection and to improve integration. I understood from the statement that the representative Schou shares my view – that the restrictions on the law on foreigners should have a broad majority behind him in order to be able to stand over time and have the effect that we wanted to achieve through the conciliation. Therefore, I wonder why the Right Party and the Advance Party have chosen to stand outside of all cooperation to try to find wider solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e367	I'm not really familiar with the description of Greni. There have been countless meetings where both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been clear – it can't be a surprise – that we are concerned that most of the government's proposals should go through, and at all those meetings I have also seen that there has been a view from the Centre Party. But that means that other parties must also be willing to deviate from their subsidiary positions in the next round. I am pleased that, in some areas, we have also reached agreement with the Centre Party and the Labour Party on tightening measures. That we are there today, with a number of restrictions, but perhaps not quite as many as the government suggested, I take note. It's good that we have that consensus. I wish we could have gone further, for example. in the case of temporaryity for single minors, because I believe that both as a government party and as a majority in the Stortinget, we actually get more if we are able to hold the agreement from November. But we got to where we came, now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e374	When there are so many in the world who need real protection from war and persecution, it is important that we have a system that is such that those who do not need protection do not burden it. That's what SV agrees with. But what you ended up with in the agreement was tightening up that one-sidedly affects those who are entitled to protection, which makes life more difficult for them. I don't think the few of us sitting here could have lived with, for example. not being allowed to be with your family in a situation where you have lost everything. If people are to be integrated, they must be rooting and being with their neighbors. What is the reason why the Right believes that being divided from his family – in a situation where one has been struck by war and lost everything – is good for integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e379	The issue we are dealing with now is not about integration, but about restraints, and SV has been a taboo for a more liberal asylum policy by standing outside the tightening-up settlement last autumn. It is important to remember that the concept of asylum itself is temporary. It is linked to war and conflict in the country of origin. None of us disagree that you have the best time with your family, but that doesn't mean that Norway is the place. Once you have come here, it is still such that we have wanted it to be temporary. We have even proposed it for lonely minors, and as far as I remember, SV was also involved in it in the previous government, namely temporary for them from 16 to 18 years. I see that the principles are falling and that SV still stands for a more taboo line for a more liberal asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e386	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e390	We live in a world where very many people are on the run or on the hike to seek a better life. Thousands of people have drowned in the Mediterranean. It puts the international community to the test, and it puts the Norwegian community and us on the Stortinget against difficult balances. I believe that all responsible parties have known of this when we have examined the government's proposals for changes to the Foreign Affairs Act and new provisions for prison. Today, the size of the population will significantly tighten asylum legislation due to the high arrivals in 2015 and to avoid a similar situation in the future. For the Workers' Party, three things have been crucial to the conclusions we have reached. Firstly, to control the border and arrival of asylum seekers in Norway. Secondly, good integration, that those who are allowed to stay and remain, must get their lives started and become contributors to our society. Thirdly, ensure that Norway respects international law and ensures the legal certainty of asylum seekers. It is also necessary for us to be able to provide protection and provide for the refugees who need it, in a situation where many people who do not have the right to protection are also seeking a better life in Europe. The Labour Party has over time been responsible for a strict, fair and humane asylum and refugee policy. And we're still going to do that. The Labour Party is pleased that the majority seems to join the balances we have made, and the conclusions we have drawn on most points. We believe it is important to have a policy of immigration with broad political support, so that the policy pursued is consistent and can last over time. Immigration policy is a demanding field for any government, not least because the number of asylum seekers to Norway is so much about things that are happening outside our borders, such as the war in Syria. At the same time, it is worth remembering that no government has had a better parliamentary base to do this job than the current government, based on the two similarities that the parties on the Stortinget agreed on the last harvest. The Labour Party is on the same lines as we were on last year, and we therefore support most of the proposals put forward by the government for tightening up, because we believe that they are reasonable and in line with the comparisons. However, we do not support new proposals which have little effect on inflows and which prevent good integration. It concerns the proposals on more temporaryity, that people should have their lives put on hold longer. Not least this applies to lone minor asylum seekers. We are concerned that many unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are embarking on a dangerous journey. There are many dilemmas associated with this. We must provide protection for children who flee from war and conflict, but it is not desirable for children and young people to embark on a dangerous journey if they do not need protection. Better information work in Afghanistan aimed at children and their families, more use of return to the first asylum country in Europe and reception centres in the main countries of dispatch for single minor asylum seekers are among the things the Workers' Party believes it needs to be further worked on. The government has not made it probable that their proposal for more temporaryity will be effective, and therefore does not receive our support. The Labour Party believes that the family reunification legislation should be tightened up. Instead of the government's proposal for three years' quarantine for family reunification as a temporary law, we propose that, as a permanent law, a period of three months be introduced to promote the application for family reunification, before the maintenance requirement enters into force. This is in line with the EU directive on family reunification. With the decisions to be taken by the Stortinget today, the government has been given a law and authority adapted to a situation where there is considerable uncertainty about the number of asylum seekers to Norway in the months and years to come. But as we clarified the last harvest, when the Storting quickly treated legislative changes related to the situation in Storskog, there is also reason to repeat now: the regulation can be as tight as we just want. It is the implementation and implementation of individual decisions that count. There is a great responsibility on the government to ensure sufficient capacity in police and foreign administration, to have a solid preparedness for increased arrivals. Therefore, I would like to stress that as important as the changes in the law we are making today, it is that we learn lessons from the experience and the lack of control the government had with the situation in the autumn of 2015, so that next time we can mobilise better and faster. The situation on Storskog was not handled well enough, and it is important to avoid it happening again. Just in light of the fact that today's situation with low arrivals can change rapidly, we believe that the so-called force majeure provisions, on the limitation of visa freedom and the possibility of expulsion on the border with the Nordic neighbouring country, are perhaps the most central issue to decide today. We agree that this is a tool the government must have by hand, but at the same time we believe that the provision must be better implemented than the government has proposed. Therefore, we propose a higher threshold to apply the provisions, i.e. ‘extraordinary capacity challenges’. Before the provision can be used, the government must have pressed the button. This means that emergency plans have been put in place, the agencies involved have been mobilised and the possibilities for rapid procedures have been exhausted, etc. in the applicable legislation. In addition, the home shall be limited in time, with the possibility of renewal up to two times, before the government possibly returns to the Stortinget with legislative changes in order to deal with a continuing crisis situation. Finally, I would like to remind you that the asylum agreement also contains a number of points that are not further discussed in the two legislative proposals we are dealing with today. These are all the points of the agreement which deal with faster processing, the return work, including direct flights to the main countries of dispatch, in order to ensure the rapid return of asylum seekers without a real need for protection. The asylum agreement also states that adequate facilities should be ensured at Storskog and at Kirkenes, stronger international police cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings and to pay particular attention to the situation of lone minor asylum seekers in reception. Although large parts of the deal are not for debate today, the government is equally obliged to follow the whole deal. From the Labour Party we will follow closely that happens. Let us not forget either: Norwegian legislation is important, but in order to provide protection to people in flight, in order to return effectively those who do not require protection, there is a need for more international cooperation and well-functioning European solutions, and Norway must be a driver. Finally, I would like to address all the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in some variant. I do not, however, promote proposal No. 15th Instead, I am promoting the proposals No. 27 and 28, which are loose, but good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e428	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e433	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Pedersen for his good cooperation in dealing with this proposition. I see that the Labour Party in this case does not support the temporary nature of lone minors. But what I also see is that during the last government period, the Workers' Party proposed that single minors aged 16-18 should have a temporary residence. Why was it necessary to have temporaryity for this group, but not to participate now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e440	Our government introduced temporary stays for lone minor asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age who are not entitled to protection, but to whom caregivers are not found to return them. A very big difference between the legislation currently in force and that proposed by the government is that the government has proposed to introduce temporaryity also for single minors entitled to protection. By doing so, you will have a stricter principle for children and young people than for adults. We disagree. We believe that today's temporary provision stands, and will continue, but there is also reason to point to what the government itself writes in the proposition, that there is reason to believe that there were the general measures introduced by the Stoltenberg government, which had the greatest effect, such as increased use of age testing, Dublin procedures and that of those who had been given temporary residence, only 36 were returned. Therefore, I do not think one should exaggerate the importance of more temporaryity towards this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e447	The main characteristics of the working party in these issues are to double-communication — have conflicting positions at the same time and communicate them. From being against many returns they now want fixed routes to land we can transport quickly to. They say they're for tightening up, and they're very happy with the tightening up we're adopting today. At the same time, they have made proposals on family reunification, which are more liberal than in Sweden. In many ways, we see a clearer difference: those who try to gain power in Norway have the policies that have been pursued in Sweden – with the results that you see there. How does the representative, Pedersen, expect them to have credibility on restraint when they make proposals that are more liberal than what they have in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e452	This is completely wrong. The Workers' Party promotes proposals for family reunification as an alternative to that proposed by the Government. Nor has the government proposed a copy of the Swedish legislation, and I would like to point out that the director of the government's own trade union UDI has actually warned that the government's proposal for family reunification can lead to an increase in the influx of asylum seekers. Then the government is pretty far from what they're saying is the goal of the contractions. We join well-founded mitigation measures adapted to the situation. We do not support those measures where the government has not made it probable that it will have any effect. And in the case of direct flights to Kabul, I mentioned it in my post. It was our proposal, it is part of the asylum agreement. Now we're just waiting for the government to implement – because that's actually the most important part of the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e459	First, I must say that I am pleased that the Workers' Party shares our view that not all the proposals contained in the proposal are considered a follow-up to the asylum agreement. One could almost get the impression of it in the first comments that came in connection with the proposal before Christmas. I feel that the Workers' Party shares the view of the Left that we should respect the obligations of international law, and am therefore surprised that the Workers' Party supports what the experts believe is the clearest violation of international law – the removal of the reasonable conditions of internal refugees, which will affect the most vulnerable refugees, such as children, seriously disabled people and other vulnerable groups. Norway is already among Europe's most stringent in the field of internal refugee practice, and my question is therefore: Why does the Labour Party believe that there is a need to break international law at that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e466	This is an assessment that we have done very thoroughly, and when we support removing the reasonableness assessment in Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act, it is because the persons concerned will mainly receive their application for protection dealt with under Section 38, i.e. for residence on a humanitarian basis. For us, it is important that they get their case evaluated anyway. We don't want disabled, single women with many children, or other vulnerable groups to be referred to internally in an area where they don't have real protection. But that is what we think this proposal takes care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e471	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e474	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for working well on this complicated matter, but I would like to add that I would like to thank the Committee Secretary in particular, and also the rest of the Storing Secretariat, who has helped us in a very complicated way. In the last few months, the Stortinget has dealt with several major issues, and many of them have been on the Municipal and Administrative Committee, including the convergence proposals that Erna Solberg and Sylvi Listhaug have put forward for the Stortinget earlier in the spring, but also Inner. 389 L – based on Prop. 91 L – and for which I am the case spokesman, where we propose to introduce a new regulatory framework to address and imprison foreigners who have made open groundless asylum applications. The majority in the committee believe it is important to put in place such a tightening in order to ensure that the foreigner does not disappear until the matter is decided by the authorities. These matters will be dealt with in the rapid procedure, and arrest and imprisonment are limited up to 72 hours. I'm glad that the proposition gets wide support in the hall. So I'll move on to the second proposition. It is important for us to put in place restraints in immigration policy. Last fall, we were in a very demanding situation when many asylum seekers came, which put under great pressure both the foreign administration, the police, the government, the Stortinget and the municipalities and gave us a challenge. The Progress Party and I would like to thank municipalities, authorities and volunteers for their great efforts, which enabled us to accommodate all of us and give them a worthy treatment. After the experience of last year, the Progress Party believes that the tightening up of government is a minimum of what we need to have in order to control the situation. The number of asylum seekers to Norway is now relatively low. We have to go all the way back to the 1990s to find as low numbers as in the first five months of this year. This is linked to a signal sent by both the Storting and the government, and the signal of a strict immigration policy must continue to come after this debate. The situation in Europe is very demanding. So far there are over 206 000 migrants over the Mediterranean. There are twice as many people as at the same time last year. In comparison, there were 216 000 migrants throughout 2014, while in 2015 there were more than one million. With this backstop, it is important that the Norwegian National Assembly today vote for the most restrictive measures possible. It is very difficult for us to see people drowning in the Mediterranean trying to get a better future in Europe. In the last few weeks, we have witnessed through the media to terrible scenes from the sea. To date, 2,800 migrants have drowned in the Mediterranean, and it is so large that it is difficult to understand the scale. The situation seems untenable. The time has come, we think, for many researchers and professors to order, to introduce a new system for people on the run. The Progress Party has long talked about the need to renew asylum policy in this area, and we are pleased that the asylum agreement says that 161 of 169 representatives agree that the government should take the initiative to review international conventions in order to ensure a better system for people in the future. We are very pleased, and we see it as crucially necessary in the long term. The major lines of immigration policy hope that we will have ample opportunity to discuss further in the future. I hope that the Storting today will adopt the most possible restrictions that are necessary for our country. I would like to see that several parties had supported the government's good proposals for restraints related to family unity, single minor asylum seekers and permanent residence permits, that there had been several votes during voting. It's about Norway's future. At the same time, it is important for us not only to dwell on the issues on which the majority in December would be strict, but on which they are no longer strict, but to be happy that a number of restrictions are being made today. We're getting multiple numbers today for the strictest law Norway has ever had in this field. We get multiple rejections on the borders of Nordic neighbouring countries in a crisis situation. We get multiple figures for the introduction of 24-year family start-up requirements. We are given multiple numbers for demands for self-sufficiency in order to obtain permanent rest periods, multiple identity clearances by increasing the use of biometrics, multiple numbers for a reduced appeal period by open groundless asylum seekers and multiple numbers for raising the requirement for proof when assessing the need for protection, to mention some of the many proposals for which Stortinget today gives us multiples. But the progress party is very clear that we think it would be necessary to get even more in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e497	I note that the government and the Progress Party have criticised and continue to criticise the Workers' Party today because we do not cut and glue the proposed tightenings, which are in Sweden. It is problematic to see the background of that criticism all the time when the government itself does not copy the Swedish proposals it refers to. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Njåstad, does he think that the government is copying the Swedish proposals? In that case, quite concretely, what are the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e504	I heard either that I was wrong, or I have misunderstood. We do not criticize the Labour Party for not copying, clipping and pasting Swedish policies in this area. What we have said is that by not voting for all the government's proposals in many areas, the Labour Party is close to Swedish policy. In some areas, Sweden would be more strict than us in the area of family reunification if the Workers' Party's attitude in its health had been reviewed in this area. It cautions us, because there is nothing this country needs, to appear more attractive than Sweden. No one in Norway wants us to get Swedish states in Norway, and hence we have challenged the Labour Party that the Unity Nestleier Trond Giske expressed it around Christmas, we would have appreciated having worked this summer as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e509	The background to the migration problem is that the world is unfair. It's rich and poor parts of the world, and everyone wants a better life. That's why we see a huge migration and refugee situation in many places. In the Christian People's Party, we are very happy that there has been so much focus in the neighbourhoods. We support that we help as much as possible in the neighbourhoods, but helping with water and food does not mean getting a full life. That is why the problems are escalating. When the government is then to finance this in the budgetary procedure, it reduces the amount of aid. They use assistance to finance a lot of this, and in addition, we know that the Progress Party has for a long time been opposed to and has gone for the reduction of aid resources. Does the representative see the violent contradiction this is? It's just by helping out there that we can counteract migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e516	It'll be a little special to get questions from a party that agrees with us on the last three state budgets, and that also cooperates on the soundness of economic policy. I am pleased with the government budgets and the revisions we have made with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's quite right that for us, it's important to spend a lot of money helping out in the neighborhoods, because that's how we help more people than by accepting a huge intrusion into Norway -- it'll cost even more to help fewer people. So I'm very happy that we share the same view, that we should help most people get a better life. Nor can Norway take responsibility for the entire world on its own. We contribute greatly, and we will continue to do so in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left when we make up our state budget. It can't be that Norway should accept all those who want a better life, because then almost the whole world would get a better life by coming to Norway. Integration is important to us, so we can't accept more than we can integrate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e523	The intention of the asylum settlement was to limit the arrival of people who were not entitled to protection. I think there is a strong consensus both nationally and internationally that the absolute most effective means of slowing down the flow is a proper border control. Earlier this week, the Central Party promoted four proposals for more effective border control, including: the proposal: ‘The Government requests the introduction of border controls at all Norwegian border crossings and asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the necessary changes to existing laws.’ I realized that Njåstad has been very concerned that we should get better border control, and then my big question is: why in the world did the Progress Party vote against these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e533	We are now discussing the proposal for tightening up, and the Progress Party will vote in favour of all proposals which are restrictive and vote against all proposals which are liberalising. Border control is important, and I have full confidence that the government will enforce the legislation that is, in a good way. Then they come to Stortinget and ask for extended powers when they want to have further control of the limits, as they have done in this proposition. I am pleased that it has been possible to find a compromise in the Committee which ensures that in an emergency situation the government has the right to reject at borders. I share the view of the representative, Mr Greni, that it is important to have control at their own border. I feel that the Storting today will give the government the powers they need to have control at the borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e538	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e541	The backbone of the legislative changes we are debating today is the exceptional refugee situation in Europe and the high arrival of asylum seekers in Norway last autumn. This required political action, and for the Christian People's Party, it has been important to contribute constructively to the various inter-political settlements and to the consideration of today's legislative proposals. Although few asylum seekers have come to Norway so far in 2016, Norway needs to have foreign legislation that is equipped to deal with future situations of greater arrival. We need legislation to ensure that those who do not need protection can be sent out quickly so that we can use the resources to accept and integrate those who have a real need for protection. The Christian People's Party's four basic premises in the treatment of the various settlements and legal labors have been and are, point one: we're going to deal with the children who come here, in a good and worthy way. Second, we need to protect the right to family life. Paragraph three: we need to promote integration. And last, but not least, we have to respect international law. Norway has traditionally placed great emphasis on the UN High Commissioner for the Council of Refugees, Recommendations and Interpretations of the Refugee Convention. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should stick to this UN track. As the Christian People's Party sees it, unfortunately the government's bill failed on all these four checkpoints. Fortunately, much is being corrected by the bulk of the population today. This applies not least to family reunification rules: the government’s proposal would have resulted in people with a need for protection being denied the right to a family life for years. In many cases, spouses and children would live in war zones or in refugee camps. The government says the proposal would have promoted integration. But all experience and common sense say that worrying about and longing for those you love will inhibit integration, not promote it. In addition, UDI says that the rules would probably lead to that more, and not less, spending on flight. If children and spouses cannot follow, the whole family will choose to flee together, often along dangerous routes. The Christian People's Party warned against this proposal from the first day and believes it is important that it does not get a majority today. The same applies to the proposal to increase the use of temporary residence for children on refuge. The research does not support the proposal. No hearing body supports the proposal, nor does it receive support from any party other than the government parties. This is understandable, because research shows that the uncertainty that lack of clarification about the future is affecting the mental health of these children. It inhibits integration and has caused many children to disappear from reception. There is also little evidence that increased temporaryity would have a further impact on the arrival in Norway. The proposal to reduce groups to be considered refugees and the proposal to increase residence time from three to five years before being able to obtain the membership and association of a permanent residence permit are proposals that may make integration more difficult. That is why the Christian People's Party will vote against it. Unfortunately, one point that seems to be getting a majority today is the proposal that people should be able to be referred to for refuge in another part of their home country, even in cases where this is unreasonable. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Foreign Affairs, Law Association, Amnesty, NOAS and legal experts in the field in Norway all consider this to be contrary to our international obligations. We know that Norway already has one of Europe’s most stringent practices in internal migration. We also know that the proposal will mainly affect the very weakest groups of refugees: families with children, lonely women and very sick people. In spite of this, the majority in this House will support the proposal. It can't be Christian People's Party. Today, there are also significant restrictions that the Christian People's Party supports. Among other things, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to have clearer demands on Norwegian and social knowledge in order to have permanent residence. It is good to take action against repeated abuse of the asylum system and to have consequences when an asylum seeker actively counteracts the clarification of his own identity. It is also good that we take important steps to ensure a more effective ID clearance. For the Christian People's Party, international solidarity is a matter of heart, and the Christian People's Party wants Norway to help refugees in their neighbourhoods by providing assistance for shelter, basic health care and schooling. Here we'll give the government some praise. It is good that Norway has played an active role in increasing international aid for refugees from Syria, and the Christian People's Party will encourage the government to strengthen Norway's humanitarian efforts to help people flee. As I mentioned earlier in a question: maintaining assistance for poor countries will discourage long-term migration. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to support part of the proposals that came today, and I am taking up the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved, and we hope for a fair, predictable and humane policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e567	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e572	For the Workers' Party, it has been important to put in place forces that function as intended and that do not impede integration. We all agree – as Mr Tuskedal also said – that those who do not need protection should be sent out. At the same time, we must ensure that those who are to become can become active contributors in the country as quickly as possible. So there's been a lot of tension about what would be the outcome in terms of the proposal for tightening up the right to family reunification. We in the Workers' Party, like the Tuskedal representative, are very happy that there is now a different solution to what was proposed by the government earlier. The representative Tuskedal said in his speech that he is happy about it, but I would nevertheless ask: does the Christian People's Party share our view that the government's proposal will put significant obstacles to the reunification of families, and therefore also for their integration into Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e579	First of all, I would like to mention that we in Norway do not think we can help millions of people, and that Norway should not accept them. There will be many people who do not have the right to asylum, and they will have to be returned as soon as possible. But in the case of those who are clear to be, it's a matter of course for us – I just have to compare with myself, my own family and my friends, because we all know how fun it is to go home after a week on the Bighold – that for those who may have fled from family, property, capital, money, circle of friends, work and everything, who sit and know that kids and family are left, it's hopeless to get effective motivation for school, vocational training, etc. That's why we believe that it's going to strengthen integration very much to get these conditions right, so that they can quickly start contributing to Norwegian society by participating and delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e587	It must be due to a misunderstanding – as I thought we had clarified in the committee – that no single minor asylum seekers will have permanent residence in Norway. The government is aware in the bill that under-age single asylum seekers in need of protection will continue to receive it and may receive permanent residence. The majority of those who are concerned, where temporaryity is involved, are those who are not in need of protection but who nevertheless remain because they do not have caregivers in the country of origin. The alternative would have been to transport these too, because they have no need for protection. When the representative says that there is no basis for claiming that policy in this area has any effect, I wonder if the representative has any thoughts about why Norway and Sweden, which have less than 3 pst. of the EU population, has received 52.5 pst. by all single minor asylum seekers who have come to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e594	I understand the representative Keshvari's question about why Norway has come into that situation. It requires international cooperation, and I assume that the government is working on it. This is not something Norway can solve alone, this must be resolved jointly with others. We need to find the reasons, and we need to know what they are. That is why I am pleased that in this matter, and in the issue of integration that comes, we need to strengthen research into this. Every instance says temporaryity is counterproductive. I know that the representative's party is concerned that we should not have Swedish states. We all are. At that time, there must be a minimum of temporaryity, so that a motivation for school and to stay. Otherwise you can get radicalization, school drop-outs, you don't want to learn language, etc. Mid-terms at almost all stages counteract integration for those who are going to be, and for those children that we have no place to send.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e601	SV and the Christian People's Party have been very much in agreement with refugee policy before, but unfortunately the Christian People's Party has chosen to support a government with the Advance Party that goes against what the Christian People's Party stands for in important areas. They will cut the aid, they will prevent families who have experienced the worst, namely being hit by war and losing everything, from being together as a family. They will hit children who are alone in the world and have been on the run for many years. These are going to be hit by temporaryity when they get here, which we know they're getting sick of. Nor has this government taken any initiative to contribute to anything but the deterrence of refugees. Quite rightly, they have increased support for neighbourhoods, but that is not much. I am pleased with the posts of the representative today, because I could keep that for myself – almost the whole article. But how can the Christian People’s Party support a government that makes such proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e608	When I hear the question from SV, I hear a reverberation – the representative may recognize herself from something she collaborated with the Labour Party and the Center Party on. One must have an overall assessment of the political situation. The Christian People's Party has had a number of breakthroughs in many areas of society that relate to the weakest, which we greatly appreciate. This applies to health, school and other areas of society. Our overall assessment is that the Christian People's Party has clearly achieved more than we might have done in the past. With regard to the areas the representative is talking about, it is also clear that the Christian People's Party today is helping to improve the conditions for lonely minors. We have contributed to debate and negotiations – and to family reunification. With this government, we have helped to get more help into the neighbourhoods, so on a number of points, the Christian People's Party has contributed. I think the government can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e617	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e620	The size will today adopt a number of proposals for tightening up the Foreign Affairs Act. The asylum settlement lodged by six parties in November, which the Stortinget subsequently decided to forward to the Government for follow-up, is hereby followed up. I'm glad we're now getting the measures to meet the refugee crisis through a series of proposals for tightening up the law on foreigners. At the same time, I am surprised that the Progress Party, through its conduct, has prevented a more unified attitude. I am also surprised that the Right has allowed itself to be bound up in the strategy chosen by the Progress Party in the treatment of the asylum agreement. The government’s proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act provided for several changes that were not part of the asylum agreement. Some of the proposals we've gone into because they're a logical follow-up to the intentions behind the deal. Others become government parties stand alone because the measures will hardly have the desired effect of controlling the refugee flow or because they will obviously weaken the integration policy. The consultation round has also shown that some of the proposals conflict with our international commitments and the conventions we have entered into. The majority have followed up the point of the asylum agreement to tighten up the right to family reunification for asylum seekers and refugees. We have made proposals to tighten up the exemption for the maintenance requirement by shortening the time limit for promoting the application to three months, with the possibility of a further three months if the applicant does not have the opportunity to obtain the necessary documentation by the deadline. The government’s proposal to remove the full exemption from the maintenance requirement would in reality have stopped the possibility of family reunification for many years to come – this has, among other things, been the case. UDI pointed out – and it would have seemed strongly anti-integrative. In the asylum agreement, the Stortinget asked the government to improve the facilities for single minor asylum seekers through several measures. Increased use of temporaryity, as proposed by the Government, was not part of the conciliation and is rejected by the majority. The government itself shows in the proposition that most hearing bodies believe that temporary permits have a significant negative impact on children and that research supports it. This, in turn, weakens the ability to succeed in good integration, it's called in the proposition. However, the Ministry insists and argues that the main purpose of the proposal is to prevent children from being sent on the run. This argument also meets professional counterclaims. The state council's claim that lone minors are used as anchor children for the family to come after has poor coverage of what is actually happening. There are very few family reunions in this group. The centre party considers that the present system of temporary residence for lone persons between 16 and 18 years of age, where age cannot actually be established, should be continued. We ask the government to assess the increased use of age testing for lone asylum seekers who claim to be under 18 years of age, and we ask the government to determine which cash benefits for single minors can be replaced by payment cards that can only be used in Norway. The current provisions for granting permanent residence permits to refugees in Norway continue. The Government proposes to raise the requirement for permanent residence from three to five years. We believe that the institution of asylum is intended to provide temporary protection against crisis, war and persecution. Therefore, it is natural that in cases where the basis for protection is no longer present, a permit is not renewed. However, there must be reasonable time limits for refugees to live in total uncertainty as to whether they are allowed to stay here. The majority of the Committee therefore opposes the proposal to increase the requirement for living time, and believes that such an increase would be negative for integration. The longer we let people wait and live in uncertainty, the longer it will take for them to be integrated and given the opportunity to support themselves. The Central Party supports the proposal to introduce a 24-year family establishment limit. The aim is to reduce the scope of coerciveness, but we recognise that it is uncertain how effective it will be, and we are therefore pleased that we have endorsed a proposal asking the government to come back to the Grand Duchy with further measures against coerciveness. The issue of measures to meet the refugee crisis started with a settlement between six parties. Today we are following up on the necessary measures. The broad agreement has become narrower in several areas, as there has been little interest in pooling decisions. The centre party has been faithful in its handling of the matter against the agreements we entered into in November. Finally, I must say that, in addition to supporting the proposals for which we are co-sponsors, we also support proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e648	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e651	Last Wednesday, Stortinget addressed a proposal from the Central Party that Norway should withdraw from the Schengen Agreement and introduce its own border controls. How does the Central Party feel that, in the situation we are now in, we are going to rock the European cooperation that exists when it comes to border control? When the Central Party so openly sees that they don't have the rest of the Storting, shouldn't they focus on how to strengthen European cooperation, not weaken it? The government, in its proposal, shows that the immigration challenges Europe is experiencing now, are highly topical in the EU and Schengen cooperation, and it is high on the agenda. When the refugee dream comes to Norway the longest in the north, there are many previous check points that have failed. What measures should be taken by the Central Party to increase control of inflation across Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e658	As I said earlier today, one of the main pillars of controlling the influx of people who don't need protection is a good border control. The four proposals we made earlier this week, for which unfortunately we did not get a majority in Stortinget, are just tightening up Norwegian border control. The Schengen Borders Control does not work as the representative for Lødemel was involved. We have concluded a Dublin agreement that does not work either. What we are now relying on is that others should guard our outer border, as it is Schengen that is our outer border. It's not working. It is then quite natural that we should make proposals that we should have control of the Norwegian border. Unfortunately, the bulk of the population is not concerned that we should have a proper border control, and thus prevent too many people coming here who do not have the right to protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e665	The center part is one of the parts that have turned around depending on what kind of lookup it is most often. They started in the summer of 2015 with a proposal that Norwegian workers should not be paid, rather take the bill and accept what came from asylum seekers to Norway. The centre party also proposed and was concerned that there should not only be capacity space in Norway, there should be vacant house in Norway, as the representative Lundtigen put it. When the situation changed and tens of thousands came to the country, the centre party was suddenly concerned about closing the borders in a way that is not possible. Today they claim that it is the responsibility of the Progress Party that no further tightening was made. Then I wonder: What tightening beyond what the Centre itself has proposed in this matter, is what they could be in the closed rooms, which they do not dare to advance in the open room and get the vote over?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e672	The first example to which the representative refers was a single play by one Central Party representative, and there is no proposal being made here in the Chamber. As far as border controls are concerned, there are four proposals that have been put forward in this Chamber and, unfortunately, the Progress Party voted against – all four proposals – when they were discussed here earlier this week. There are some of the proposals we think should have been in place to have stricter border controls, and to have more control over who is entering the country. I am very surprised that the Progress Party, which is very concerned with border control, and which itself says it is one of the most important instruments for us to be able to control who comes to Norway, is voting against any proposal to have stricter border control in the country. I have to say it really surprises me that they do not want to participate in an intensification that could prevent an increased influx into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e682	The centre party merges into the range of lots that were involved in an ex-post tightening settlement, because the proposals will affect those who are entitled to protection and will live in Norway, and this will hamper integration. One thing SV has been busy for the last two to three years is that we need to have a Dublin code that works, i.e. a better sharing of responsibilities within Dublin cooperation. Today, there are those countries that have the outer border, that have to accept many, and that start to attach refugees further, of course, because they knew that at the moment they stamp their passports, they will be held responsible for them. SV has twice made proposals in the UK to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement, but we have not precisely noticed any strong support from the Central Party to get this through. This could have given a better sharing of responsibilities in Europe for the burden that different countries have to bear in order to accept refugees. What's the reason why the Center Party has been so passive about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e687	I do not share Andersen's view that we have joined an asylum agreement we now find that is so strict that we cannot agree to adopt it here in the Chamber. All the decisions we take here today are within human rights, and the decisions we do not have today are decisions that are not part of the asylum agreement, but are decisions that go far beyond the asylum agreement. That's why we don't want to be on them. This applies, inter alia, to: the decision on the zero possibility of family reunification in practice, relating to the decision that all lone minors should only have temporary residence, etc. As regards the Dublin Agreement, it is being renegotiated by the Council of Europe. There are things happening in Europe where they look at burden-sharing, and it is clear that, as Italy, Greece and these countries have got inflows now, it is completely impossible for them to deal with it on their own. That's why there is now a distribution system for the refugees coming to Italy, but I'm not going to say that it works very well today. But at least the case is being worked on, and there is an arrangement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e694	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e697	The left was in a two-part deal last autumn about measures to meet the refugee situation we experienced then. We thought it was important and right that the parties at Stortinget came up with measures we could stand together about. That is why we supported the Prime Minister's initiative for a broad settlement, and we are still on the verge. However, the follow-up by the Government to the settlement is not in line with the agreement of the broad majority of the Grand Duchy. It was clear to the Left already in the consultation round. We thought the proposals that were sent to the hearing went much further than the asylum agreement allowed, mainly because it was not in line with our international obligations, and because it weakened the legal certainty of asylum seekers. That is why we presented our own 40 proposals for the follow-up to the asylum agreement, and we are pleased that we now have a majority for a number of those proposals. There were 31,145 asylum seekers in Norway in 2015, compared with 11,480 in 2014. It was demanding for the receiver, which is dimensioned to receive less than half of the number. There are now 20 000 people sitting on reception around the country waiting for answers to asylum applications. For these, the decisions we are making today will have a major impact on their ability to integrate into a municipality, the possibility of being reunited with their families and of having permanent residence. That's why it's important that we look at contractions and integration in context. The rear carpet from the autumn with high tightening must be supplemented by our record low arrivals. So far, 1407 asylum seekers have arrived in Norway. The estimate of arrivals will be adjusted down next week. There are still millions of people on the run, and there are still many coming to Europe. The war is raging in Syria, and conditions are also serious in other countries. We do not have the opportunity to accept all the people who want to go to Norway, nor is there any party that is calling for free immigration. Norway already has a strict immigration policy, and with the decisions taken today we will have an even more stringent immigration policy. For the Left, however, there has been no target of being the most stringent country in Europe. As a small country, it is essential for Norway to support the common international rules. We therefore believe that our international obligations should be respected, as we also agreed in the conciliation in the autumn. The left contributes to the majority of several of the proposals adopted today, such as new measures for the detection of false identity, the faster treatment of groundless asylum applications, the lower threshold for expulsion from the misuse of the asylum institution, the integration criteria for permanent residence etc. However, the Left does not support the proposals that have met with the strongest criticism in the consultation rounds, such as temporaryity for children coming alone, the removal of visa freedom for asylum seekers, access for the police to reject asylum seekers on the border and the removal of reasonable internal refugee assessment. In the case of children coming alone, research in this area shows that it is very uncertain whether the introduction of temporary residence will lead to fewer children becoming lone refugees to Europe. We thought, however, that it is very unfortunate for children who are affected, which the government also admits. The left is not willing to sacrifice these kids in hopes of scaring more from coming. The government's anchor child theory is strongly refuted by several professional bodies, and it is stated by several that it is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The proposal to remove visa freedom for asylum seekers is appropriate to abolish the entire right to asylum. If there was to be a situation with such a great influx from our nearest Nordic neighbouring country that the asylum system collapses, the Stortinget is able to act as quickly as we did last autumn. The proposals for tightening the right to family reunification fear the Left that it will abolish the right to family reunification and inhibit integration. Refugees do not have the opportunity to reunite with their families in their home country; therefore, the legislation must be different for refugees than for immigrants. Therefore, we oppose the removal of the exemption from the maintenance requirement. Demands for education and work will take a long time to get family reunification, and, as UDI has warned, will help to ensure that entire families make a living. We also believe that it inhibits integration, as we know that families are easier to integrate than lonely men. It is known that the Left is opposed to extending the living requirement. We are particularly concerned about women who have to endure longer in violent conditions. Therefore, we believe that the integration criteria on Norwegian and social knowledge are better. The basis for our assessment is also that there is a majority in favour of self-sufficiency. Therefore, we believe that the increase in living time is too extensive. I bring up the proposals No. 24–26 of the Left and SV, and with this will also notify that the Left will vote against the following points in the majority’s position: § 28 fifth paragraph, § 34 second paragraph, § 51 new third and fourth paragraphs, § 62 first paragraph, point (f) and § 90 third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e723	The representative, André N. Skelstad, then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e728	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party together with the Left, Christian People's Party and the SV have found themselves together in a lot of the proposals that we are going to adopt here today. However, for the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure control of borders and control of asylum arrivals in Norway. We share the government's desire for control, but we could not support the government's proposals as they exist, and therefore we are promoting alternative proposals and solutions that provide for control even in exceptional situations. I register that the Left does not vote for either the Government's or the Workers' Party's proposal, and I would therefore like to ask the representative of Skjelstad: How does the Left want to meet any extraordinary influx to Norway in a situation where we no longer have control?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e735	It is regrettable that we have not managed to reach a broader consensus in the Committee, as the Left and also the Labour Party have long been concerned about. I think there are several handles that have to be done in terms of border control. As I explained in my post, I don't think temporaryity is the case. I believe that today we have legislation that will be sufficient. We spent a long time evaluating both the proposal that Eirin Sund referred to, which was from the government, and not least their own, and we found that it was not possible for us to stand in for any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e740	During the autumn of 2015, the Left was very concerned about criticising the Progress Party and the government for imposing only restrictions on tightening of restraints – and not the consensus on the issue of decoration, more specifically the regulation on long-term children. Following this criticism in a situation where millions of people are in flight, a retrospective force was also given to this regulation, which allowed a whole group of four families with children to return to Norway. In the new year, after the situation had deteriorated dramatically, and there were tens of thousands of people who had come to Norway — over 31,000 asylum seekers — suddenly the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, was concerned that the government did not implement the restrictions quickly enough — that the restrictions were not introduced. That was totally the opposite of what you'd been criticizing for before. But when the government of the proposition comes up with proposals agreed in the Nydalen agreement, the Left nevertheless chooses not to vote for them. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e745	I assume – through the haranged representative Keshvari – that this is based on a question of why we were not in favour of the government's tightening-up proposal. We even made 40 tightening suggestions that we thought had a better device than the government had. Early last autumn we also pointed out, through my leader, that this could have been implemented faster. This is about a craft in many ways, and I have also pointed out that it could have been possible to achieve a broader consensus than what we have today. One is to present the contents you have at all times, but it is also about the craftsmanship in this hall, and that craftsmanship is unfortunately very deficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e750	The left entered into an agreement with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in connection with the establishment of the government of Solberg. There is one of the most important points, as the Left made it afterwards, more emphasis on the best interests of children. One of the points of conflict to be resolved is the treatment of lone minors, and the Central Party and the Left agree to reject the arrangement with the principle that single minors should only be given temporary residence. The housing of lone minors has already been difficult because of the cuts made in the funding of child protection measures, and it would have been even worse if we had had more temporary ones. Does the Left believe that the agreement they have with the government parties to ensure greater emphasis on the best interests of children has been satisfactorily followed up, in the light of the proposals made in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e755	With regard to the best of children, we can say that with regard to some of the proposals that Trine Skei Grande has also referred to earlier, we believe that the government goes beyond what is in the agreement. That's why we don't agree on the tightening up of family reunification, which we've also pointed out will be a barrier to what's best for children. I would also like to point out that it was the Labour Party government that introduced temporaryity, when the Central Party also put in government. It unfortunately made all the other things stop. It was also the Center Party part of it. I still believe that we have got significantly more in this area with today's government, than with the government of which the Central Party was part in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e763	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e766	In a situation where very many people in the world are fleeing for life, and where Europe and Norway accept a small fraction of what we expect other countries to do and do, the majority of people in the United Kingdom are entering into a settlement that tightens up on those in need of protection. That is why SV was opposed to it, and today we are pleased that the conciliation has failed, that the worst proposals are not being adopted, and that the government is going to go down with a great deal of defeat. But I can't be happy. I can't be happy, because the government is paralyzed in being able to take international initiatives to protect people as refugees for life. Norway does not. Norway has been good at helping with money in its neighbourhoods — we could have given more. But the government is paralysed to take international initiatives to protect refugees – and not to renegotiate the refugee convention in a situation where no one will be involved in strengthening the protection of refugees. Last year, the flow of refugees increased. All the numbers showed it. The government was passive and caused the chaos to arise. When the panic came in the autumn and the government still made a government budget with cuts in these areas, the majority of the population rewarded the government with a settlement. I'm glad now that the senses and realities have come to their senses. SV has stood firm. We must follow our international obligations and take our share of responsibility when many refugees. Norway has a strict asylum and refugee policy. We already have a strict asylum and refugee policy. The agreement that was concluded was against us, but not because it had measures against those who do not have the right to protection. All those measures were in favour, and we even promoted several proposals. But we were opposed to what would destroy integration and punish those who have experienced the worst, namely, to flee from war, by not being with their family, by having to be in Norway for years before they were to see them, by not even having a full-time job in the state at grade 24 would be enough to get family reunification. One should also hit single minor asylum seekers who come and perhaps have been on the run for many years, with some stories that they come because they want family reunification, even though the figures show that it is not right. This was about scaring those in need of protection. I hear more people who think it's fine, because it's going to be very few now. I would be happy if the reason for that had been that fewer had needed protection. Then I would be happy. But it's just because you want to shift responsibility for those who flee, to other countries. I am pleased that the most integrational proposals have been removed. It should only be lacking when all the responsible bodies and our professional bodies and human rights organisations say that this violates our international obligations. It was just supposed to be missing. I've heard the council say the one who's not afraid now, juger. Then we can ask ourselves: are we getting safer by frightening and treating people as refugees from war, bad? I don't think so. I think we're getting safer by treating people like people. Norway cannot resolve the refugee crisis alone. Therefore, SV has taken the initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement, so that all countries take greater responsibility for those refugees who need protection – we cannot solve this alone – the government has not. The Government is awaiting the initiative of others for such necessary agreements. I'm going to mention a point that's becoming a majority for today, and that's bad. It is the reasonableness condition that is removed for internal flight. Amnesty presented a report in May 2016, i.e. this year, showing that it has become dramatically worse in Afghanistan. That's where the government intends to send most of them. The authorities are unable to protect the vulnerable and will be affected when the reasonableness condition is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e783	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e786	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e791	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the SV's proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e796	The representative, Karin Andersen, has just made a hot article about taking responsibility. It becomes a little paradoxical when it comes from the representative of the party that has stood outside both of them, which I would say is among the most important similarities in this process: the asylum agreement and the integration agreement. Therefore, when the government now delivers on the order that was made by a large majority, it is not surprising that SV also today stands outside many of the proposals. But I hear that SV wants to be a responsible party that takes the necessary steps that are needed. My question is: how can the SV in this room feel that it is responsible that Norway should have an asylum policy that is considerably more liberal than in our neighbouring country – if we were to follow the SV's political proposals – especially in the light of the situation we experienced last autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e808	I believe the representative of the Right will soon have to realize that the agreement has been reached, the agreement, the tightening-up, the rigour. It was not because there were proposals that could ensure that those who do not have a need for protection did not come – they were the tumultuous agreement in Stortinget – but because the proposals for tightening up would affect those who have a right to protection and who remain in Norway and destroy integration. That is why SV did not join in. With regard to the integration agreement, the SV has had a greater impact than the government has had, because our proposals that have been dealt with – and they were good. The problem here is that the government has not had proposals that have been good enough and found the majority in the Grand Duchy today. SV today agrees with the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre in many things, because they have not joined these proposals by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e815	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e818	When people elsewhere in the world need protection, they should be able to seek security in Norway. We're going to accept them, and we're going to deal with their applications in accordance with international law and with the people. We should not aim in Norway to try to scare people who need protection, not to seek protection in Norway. There is unfortunately a danger that in the future we too will experience that many people around the world need protection, and that they will also want to seek such protection here in the country. It will be a crisis for those people who have to do it, but we shall not define it as a crisis for Norway. We're going to focus on taking responsibility for helping, both because the propriety warrants it, because we're committed to it, and because we have every interest in other countries treating us like the day we need. That is why last autumn the Green Party took part in the negotiations on a broad agreement on a change in asylum policy and the Foreign Affairs Act, and we did so because we fully agree that it would be good if there was a broad consensus on such a demanding policy area in the Grand Duchy. Of course, we agree – and have signaled on many points – that the Norwegian system and the legislation on refugee policy can be improved and made more effective now and in the future. But we didn't agree to that agreement, because it became clear that more and more parties saw it as a participation in a tightening up competition, with the Advance Party as a precursor. There were two things we wouldn't accept. There were measures that deprived refugees of international rights at the border and the opportunity to have their cases assessed, and it was to use several points in integration as a tool to scare away asylum seekers. I am proud that the Greens had enough ice in their stomach to stand on the grounds of international law and human rights at the time. I believe we have seen very clearly that that position could have been favourably taken by more parties at that time, because it would have provided a better basis for a broader settlement on the Great Britain on asylum policy than we have now. After all, the asylum agreement concluded in the autumn of the Stortinget has gone up in smoke. The Left and Christian People's Party has expired. The Workers' Party and the Center Party have one leg here and one leg there. At least that has led to a slightly less aggressive policy of tightening up than it could possibly be. That is why the Green Party supports several proposals from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV, which we will highlight in particular the proposals No. 18-25, for which we will vote. Improving the situation of stateless people and giving them the opportunity to give citizenship at birth is one of the most important things we think are very important and will support. That is why we are also voting against most of the proposals the government is promoting, but during the day we will look into other proposals that have come from different party constellations and vote in favour of some of them. We are not opposed to a better refugee policy that together takes care of the interests of both refugees and those to be integrated. But we are particularly concerned about voting against and taking away from some of the proposals that are being promoted. One is the proposal to remove the requirement of proportionality in the case of internal refugees, which is clearly contrary to international law. Another is the tightening up of family reunification rules, which will significantly weaken integration. A third is the rejection of refugees on the border in neighbouring Nordic countries. 75 pst. by applicants for asylum in Norway last year were granted their applications. We are not facing a wave of refugees who are not entitled to asylum in Norway. I look forward to a continued discussion of a policy that takes care of the interests of those who are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e839	Now the representative Hansson isn't in the committee, so he hasn't been with us all the months we've been diving into all the proposals, and I understand that he can't tell the pulpit now what they're going to do in the vote later today. But I know that the Green Party and the representative Hansson are concerned with climate policy, migration and refugee policy. I also know that the representative Hansson is concerned that international agreements and rules on migration and refugee policy are as important as rules on climate policy – that must be taken into account. For the Workers' Party, as I have said earlier today, there are decisions that ensure control of borders and the arrival of asylum. We do not support the government's proposals on this. We are promoting alternative proposals that provide for control in exceptional situations. Is there a proposal that the Greens could support when we are going to adopt the matter later today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e844	As Mr Sund points out, it is a challenge for the Greens to be involved in all of them in such a big and heavy matter as this. We have not yet gone into the proposal of the Labour Party. We have mainly addressed the proposals of the Left, the Christian People's Party and the SV, but we are aware that there are many compromise proposals available and, among other things, there are. The working party has been involved in the preparation. We are going to look closely at them – in order to vote for as many of the proposals we believe are in favour of improving asylum policy without undermining human rights and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e849	I would like to thank the Greens for also being able to keep their heads cold last autumn and not agree to a tightening-up agreement that would have destroyed integration. But there's one point that everyone has to take seriously, and that SV is going to vote for today, in the setting. It's the point of biometry and identification. SV believes it is entirely legitimate for countries to know who is in the country and to prevent many from operating with more identities. It's obvious that if that happens, those who have a very immigration-sceptic vision will get water on the mill. We are all interested in preventing this, so SV has asked the government to do it for years. Now they come with it, and I want to ask the representative Hansson if he shares the view that, in order to secure land – that it is legitimate – in the future, it will have to use biometrics on identification papers, and that it will facilitate the control we depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e854	The Greens have no fundamental counter-representation against using methods that better clarify people's identity. At the same time, we hear that Norway is already in the forefront of the very extensive use of identification measures and methods, and the scepticism with which we are left is simply the extent to which it is practicable and sensible to implement such measures. We are going to look at the proposal with positive eyes, but we are not yet fully convinced that it is practical to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e859	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e862	The influx of refugees and migrants in 2015 was record high and created a crisis both in the EU and Norway. This led the Stortinget to see the need for significant contractions. When the flow over Storskog increased sharply last autumn, the government took important action and made record time proposals for the Stortinget. The size was delivered as quickly as possible, and in the course of a week we got a law that gave us the opportunity to get control of the situation. The crisis is over right now. The influx into Europe has been great this year too, but far from such as we saw last autumn. Due to the introduction of border controls in several countries and the EU-Turkey Action Plan, arrivals have now been reduced. The feeling of crisis is gone, and you can fall for the temptation to lean back. There's no reason. I was recently in Italy, experiencing a sharp increase in the number of migrants from Libya. These are largely economic migrants, and an increasing number of them are lone minor boys. Many come from countries to which it is difficult to return because the country of origin does not want to receive them. This market is run by human traffickers. They are careless, and a life is not worth anything. They'll always do what they can to earn their money, develop their business and become more creative in ways to transport people. There is reason to believe that pressure on Europe will continue in the coming years, and Norway is a very attractive country. In other words, the situation is very uncertain. I am pleased that the government gets full or partial impact on most of the proposals we are promoting. It is important to put in place requirements for knowledge in Norwegian and social knowledge before granting permanent residence permits. The most important thing, however, is that we have a claim that the foreigner must have been self-sufficient in the last 12 months before permanent residence. This requires integrating and getting into work before a permanent residence permit is granted in Norway. It's also very important that we get a tool to deal with the situation on the frontier in the event of a possible crisis. The adoption of a 24-year age limit to pick up a spouse to Norway represents a milestone. This has been an important matter for me in much of my political life. The fight against coercion is the most important equality fight in our time. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal to strengthen the fight against ID yokes by making use of fingerprinting and facial recognition to a greater extent and that the Committee is in favour of evaluating the extended retention period for biometrics. But there is also disagreement about important proposals for tightening up. The family reunification proposal of the Labour Party will involve a greater immigration into Norway than the government’s proposals. In addition, it should have been claimed that it is the individual who has to feed his family, and not Norwegian taxpayers. Norway is a very attractive country for young lonely — mainly boys — and I believe that the majority of families will still find it equally attractive to send their children on a potentially fatal journey to Europe and Norway in the hands of traffickers. We see from the figures that Scandinavia is very attractive to this group. The situation of the last year showed that the inflow can change very quickly. The government is taking a tough course in immigration policy, regardless of newspaper headlines and mood waves, because we need to think in the long term and ensure a sustainable immigration policy that will safeguard our welfare model for future generations. I record that the course in some other parties may vary from day to day and depending on the person who speaks out. However, I am glad that the sum is that we are getting significant tightening compared to today. The situation is very uncertain. If we get a big influx again, the government has good proposals ready for presentation to the Stortinget. History has shown us that the Storting looks differently at the need for restraints when the need is insensitive. So in that case, we're ready with good suggestions for the Storting that can easily be picked up from the drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e884	The number of asylum seekers coming to Norway is influenced by many different things: war and conflict out there, the signals we send out through our policies, and the way our legislation is communicated. In December 2014, the Government amended the Regulation for long-term children. In 2015, there was a sharp increase in the number of lone minor asylum seekers, EMA, and that increase was relatively higher than for adults. It is also interesting to note that the marked increase in the number of EMA to Norway occurred in May 2015, i.e. a few weeks after the government had signed an additional agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which according to the government's website stated that «the authorities should be more liberal in terms of long-term children». Does the Council of State consider that there is a link between the change in the rules for children that was communicated as a liberalisation and the increase in the number of lone minor asylum seekers who came to Norway last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e893	Signals go out in this sector – if you can say so – because there is a market run by traffickers in a world that has become as small as a mobile phone. Everything we do gives signals, and that's how it affects the inflow. The fourth year was quite exceptional. We got over 5,000 lone minors to Norway. Our neighboring country got over 30,000 and is really in a pretty dramatic situation, where we see in some age classes there is a bigger imbalance between girls and boys than it is in China, which has driven a single-child policy. That's exactly why this government has been concerned that we have to deal with lonely minors. That is why we proposed to extend the temporary arrangement that the Workers' Party itself introduced when they were in government, to include those younger. If it is that the Workers' Party believes that it had no effect, why not propose to remove that scheme here and now? That's enough because the signals are... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e900	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e903	I thank you for your answer. I feel that the Council of State confirms that the liberalisation of the regulation for long-term children had an effect, and that there was a strong increase in the number of EMA to Norway last year, at least a strong contributing cause. Then I wonder what consequences the Council of State will draw from it. Is the asylum requirement for long-term children established, or will the Council of State take the initiative to amend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e909	The consequences are that all the signals that go out, everything that is adopted in this room, have an effect out there. That's why I've been very concerned about the last few days to show that it's a pity that the Workers' Party has made a hustle and bustle in immigration policy, that in the past, in a lot of cases, one used to coexist with the Progress Party and the Right to tighten up and lead a tough course, while unfortunately recently one has seen that there have been a lot of wings, there have been different signals, and that one has now moved towards unfortunately not supporting the important tightening proposal. When we see that lone minors are now coming to Europe in increasing numbers, I also believe that Norway, which appears to be a very attractive country, should be tightened up. Therefore, it is a pity that the Workers' Party does not participate in extending its own proposal, namely that the temporary arrangement should also apply to those who are under 16 years of age, and not only to those who are between 16 and 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e916	We agree that we need international cooperation. We agree that it should have been fewer who came here. Let's say we agree with the whole package of not sending signals, etc. However, the Council of State has also referred to Swedish conditions, where temporaryity leads to further migration, to crime, to trafficking in human beings, to drugs, to radicalisation, to parallel societies, to little motivation for school, to mental disorders, etc. It is clear that temporaryity leads some young people to come out in everything that we fear, and that I have now listed. When no expert committee requests temporaryity, when no one in the hearing recommends it, when research does not and the UN does not recommend it – on what basis do the Council of State think temporaryity is working when we are going to have a knowledge-based approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e921	As I know, Swedish policy has not been characterized by temporaryity. On the contrary, the Swedish legislation has put in place very liberal arrangements that allow people to stay very quickly. It is also true that in Sweden they have now, very recently, started with age testing of children. So, to say that temporaryity contributes to poor integration, the opposite has proven to be true in Sweden, which has led a policy that has actually been given more rapid residence. What this is about is to a large extent that we must have signals that imply that Norway is a strict country. I will be the first to say that I am pleased that this House today adopts proposals that make Norwegian immigration policy never more stringent. But then I also think that it should be even more stringent, and that is because we see that the pressure on Europe is going to continue. There are an incredible number of people in the world who want to go to Europe and who are going to do what they can to get in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e928	The central party supports all the proposals that follow the conciliation process, and there is today a majority of the proposals that have been promoted. All the proposals in the conciliation are being given a majority here today. Nevertheless, the Council of State is trying to create a media image of this being far too blatant, and that there are insignificant inadequacies. Why does the Council of State talk down the majority of its own proposals, and how does the Council of State think such opinions will affect the flow? I think we should also signal what we are actually doing here in the Chamber today: we are making significant cuts. Finally, if the Council of State agrees with me that border control is a very important instrument for controlling that there are not too many unjustified asylum seekers here, why does the Progress Party not want more stringent border control and vote down the proposal of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e935	Now it's like I'm not talking down what we're getting adopted. On the contrary, I was very clear in my post that I am incredibly happy that the government gets a majority for most of the proposals – either in whole or in part. I was also very clear that the policy adopted now is stricter than the one we had before. But I think it should be even more stringent, because we are seeing what is happening both in Europe and in the world. That's why I should, for example. wish that we had a family reunion code where people had to integrate, where people had to pay for and be able to feed the family they wanted to bring here, that there was a minimum condition that I would like to have a majority in this room. The same applies to the lone minors. After all, the centre party was one of the parties that was in the last period to introduce legislation that allowed temporaryity there. I think it's a pity that you don't agree to extend it to those who are younger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e940	The border controls introduced in Sweden, Denmark, Germany and, not least, Austria have had a significant impact, including in Norway. Because there are no signals, there are decisions that are the main points, and there is also clarity about them. The EU Commission has approved the extension of border controls until 11 November, which provides a basis for assuming that we will not have a situation similar to that we had last year. The current estimate for the number of asylum arrivals to Norway is between 5 000 and 50 000, according to the UDI. However, the estimate is expected to be halved. With much more closed borders in Europe, the UDI believes that it has become more difficult to move north, including for those who have crossed the Mediterranean. Does the State Council share the view of the Foreign Affairs Directorate that estimated arrivals in 2016 will be much lower than currently estimated and much lower than last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e947	The government is basing itself on what the Calculation Committee will come up with. At the same time, all instances are very clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what happens next. It is about what happens to the action plan between the EU and Turkey. As long as it works, it looks like the influx there is pretty low. And then you also see that there's an increasing number of transfers from Libya to Italy. Of course, it's important to keep an eye on it. Border controls have been very important because there has been a minor inflow. At the same time, the decline in Norway is greater than in our neighbouring countries. Both Denmark and Sweden have had a higher number of arrivals – Sweden has, of course, had a much higher number of arrivals this year. Even Finland has had a higher number of arrivals than Norway this year. Norway has seen very low inflows. Signals mean something. That's why it's important to send out the signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e958	Suffering from major defeat by the Council of State, she continues to spread myths where facts may refute the situation of lone minor asylum seekers. She continues to dehumanize the refugees and to say that they are the ones that are scary, and she refuses to listen to her own professional boards and the UN in terms of Norwegian commitments. The councils have been in Italy, and there it was terrible – it wasn't a gold chair to see so far the eye rang. Nevertheless, the Council of State will not change any views. The council says she's busy with the human traffickers. So is SV. But if we are to be able to stop the traffickers, we must make it possible to apply for asylum in ways other than today – because that is because we have shut down all other opportunities, the traffickers have a business to run. It's about people having a need to escape and being persecuted. Does the Council of State recognize this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e965	Let me first say that I am pleased that SV is dissatisfied with the proposals that are being adopted here today. This is a good sign that the country has a more stringent asylum policy, which is absolutely necessary to meet the times we are now facing. So it's like in some cases we disagree. What is considered a defeat on the SV's side, I would say rather is a defeat for the country. What's important in the future is that we have a policy that makes us not attracted specifically to migrants who come with economic intentions. I was in Italy, I saw it with my own eyes. The point is that very many of those who get there are economic migrants. They come from countries in Africa that are not at war and conflict. They want a better future, but Europe cannot give it to all those who want it. Problem No. 2 today that it is very difficult to send them back, because the countries they come from will not accept them. That's why it's essential to stop this traffic, and we have to work internationally to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e974	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e977	I noticed that the Council of State said the crisis is over. The crisis is not against the people this actually applies to. The refugee crisis is not primarily our crisis. It's a crisis for those who are affected by the brutal reality of the war, people who have to leave everything they own and have, a crisis for those who have to put on a life-threatening flight. I think that this debate benefits from some perspectives. So let's also remind each other how lucky we are to live in fear, who lives in a safe and good country, a country that people flee to – and not from. There is no doubt that the refugee crisis has challenged us – challenging a receiver that was not equipped to receive everyone who came. It has challenged us, which is a major act in terms of international law and human rights. It has challenged politicians to show national leadership, rather than to play in fear – to put national interests ahead of political games. I'm not sure if all the politicians have passed that test. But those I'm sure history will write nicely about are the rapporteurs who threw themselves around and got a roof over the head of people who needed it, the volunteers on the Tue who put up with food and conversation, and all the volunteers in all of our long-range country, both those who have contributed here at home, and those who have traveled out to help. They have shown why ‘dugnad’ is a Norwegian word. I also want to thank lawyers, lawyers and humanitarian organisations who have stood up for international law, legal certainty and human rights. It's values and principles that are not made for the sunny days, but that will help us keep our course straight when it's storming. And that's what the Workers' Party has tried to do. There have been demanding balances. We have listened to professional advice, and we want to pursue a knowledge-based policy. We believe it is right to tighten up efforts to prevent people without a need for protection from seeking asylum and to help those who really need protection. Today we contribute to tightening up. The government is given the opportunity to ensure border control in an emergency situation. We need to make more demands on those who are going to have a permanent stay, and we suggest tightening the deadline to seek family reunification. But we also contribute to the creation of a majority against some of the government's proposals. It is proposals that have little impact on inflows or that hinder good integration policies. And it is all the proposals that have been given strong support in the consultation round. The government proposes a three-year pensioner to get family reunification, and combined with a very high income requirement, according to the UDI, many would have to wait 8-10 years for family reunification. It may sound harsh in the tabloid change of words, but in reality these proposals would lead the opposite way to more asylum seekers in Europe. On 9 February we read that the UDI felt that stricter family reunification rules could lead to more refugees coming to Norway. The UN High Commissioner has warned the same thing. On 30 January of this year, the European Director of the European Commission said to the evening post: ‘With such a restrictive line, the Norwegian authorities will only lead the trafficking industry. Because what do you do if you're faced with these prospects? Yes, you pay traffickers to get the family over." And it didn't take long for us to confirm it. February 19th this year the evening post Gada Ali, from Damascus in Syria. She had taken with her five little children on the deadly voyage across the Mediterranean. She said there's a lot of uncertainty about new rules in Europe and we felt we had only one choice. We had to get out. And that with the whole family." From June of last year to February this year, the proportion of children and women in life - threatening boats had doubled in a short time. It's the same path where 2,400 people have died so far this year. We do not need an unwise policy of tightening up the lives of more women and children across the Mediterranean. In addition, all professional advice and research in the field say that family reunification is important for integration. The hearing recordings are quite clear to those of us who have read them. The government's own expert body on integration, IMDi, writes among others. in its consultation exercise that research shows that forced family separation with constant concern for the family, without the prospect of being reunited before many years have passed, too many could result in impaired mental health, poorer concentration, learning ability and integration. Thus, the government's drastic tightening-up of the right to family reunification could lead to both more asylum seekers and poorer integration. We also say no to more use of limited stays for single, minor asylum seekers. Under the red-green government, we tightened up for that group between 16 and 18 years old. And in the public debate, and also here today, it can almost seem as if the government is simply proposing to remove the age limit of existing legislation. So that's not true. The government has gone far more drastically to work. They propose inter alia: to remove the judgement and introduce a discretionary provision in the law. We have received strong warnings that it will break the requirements of the Convention on the Child’s Individual Assessment of the Child’s Best. The tightening in 2009 was limited to children without a need for protection, i.e. § 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act. On the other hand, what the government is doing, even if they are trying to deny it, is to introduce the same option in Section 28, which is the paragraph granting asylum to those who have a need for protection. What does that mean? Well, that means that with the government's proposal, children with a need for protection would be able to stay temporarily – children who may come when they are 10-12 will have to live very many years in uncertainty. It is a measure that also has a limited impact, because the government has introduced a regulation for long-term children, which says that these children would eventually be most likely to stay anyway. It is also worth noting that the Special Concern of the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family on the negative consequences of the proposal will affect the ability of children and young people to contribute to Norwegian society. They write that poor integration and poorer living conditions provide the basis for mistrust and rejection of common values and can provide the basis for radicalisation and increased conflict. It is not a policy that we want to support, nor is there anyone who has been able to prove that this action will lead to fewer children spending time alone. All the time the Council of State is so busy, you might want to take a look at your own proposal for drastic tightening of the family reunion, which leads to more children having to go on a life-threatening flight. In fact, no one has summarized the proposal for single minor asylum seekers better than what the government itself writes on page 57 of the bill: «No one supports the proposals for new provisions. Many ask for the withdrawal of the proposals.’ I'm glad the Stortinge is making sure of it today. This is a debate with demanding balances. There are different considerations that stand up to each other. And precisely in this kind of debate, it's important to have a knowledge-based policy. It's important that we do tightening things that actually work, but we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. Intensifications must also be balanced against other considerations. If we are to have credibility when we travel around the world and tell other countries that they must respect international law and human rights, we must also do it. Then we all agree that Norway cannot do everything. We can't help everyone. No country can. But that's exactly why every country has to do something. I'm glad that today we are putting up for tightening up, but also for a policy that takes care of those who are coming, and gives them the opportunity to start a life and contribute to the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1026	The war in Syria and conflicts in the vicinity have created one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our time. Globally, we see a migration of people we've never seen before. 60 million people are fleeing, and the pressure on Europe is great. In this context, Norway has a duty to help, and this government has provided it. There's something the opposition hasn't talked about so much today. I'll come back to why, but first let me tell you what we've done to help out there. The government has promised about 10 billion. together in assistance to Syria and the neighbourhoods over the next four years. The money ensures food, shelter and schooling for people in distress. Norway was the initiator and co-organiser of the London donor country conference in February, Norway’s auxiliary vessel contributed in the Mediterranean, Norway receives a high number of quota refugees compared to other countries, and Norway is also participating in the EU relocation programme for asylum seekers. This pressure, which I am talking about, came to Norway as well. When we were in the situation when the pressure was high, we heard something quite different from the red-green politicians. If we go six months back in time, we had a number of red-green posers who not only competed in being strictest, but also in promoting creative suggestions. It was representative Pedersen who wanted charter planes from the Kirkenes to Kabul. The government didn't send people out quickly enough for her. It was too little, and it was too late. The centre party, which today talks about Norway's international obligations and responsibilities, would close the borders. It's very humanitarian! They continue to have representatives who want Norway to withdraw from the Schengen Agreement and cooperate there. Yes, now it had to be traded, and the government did. Based on the agreement in Stortinget, this government presented an asylum package in December on direct orders from a large majority in Stortinget. What happened then? Well, the Vice President of the Workers' Party Giske went out and stamped it as a copy of the Labour Party's policy. Since then, the Labour Party has had ever-changing views on this matter. I have criticised SV from this pulpit several times for not being part of the asylum agreement. I'm probably going to keep doing that. But at least they've been tidy to their voters. In contrast to SV, the Workers' Party in particular has been a study in populist slumping from the point of view to the point of view of this case. It's just to look at the performances in the last 12 months. They have varied from the figures for asylum arrivals. This debate is not just about numbers, poses and press releases. It's about people. But intentions alone are not enough. That must be realism in the political choices we make. It has to be feasible. Here at home, the municipalities are going to do the most important job. They are responsible for housing and integration. What does that mean? Well, that means that there are those who are going to provide language training, work practice, education, community involvement, extra efforts for psychiatry professionals, child protection, police and volunteering. What we make of decisions today affects people locally. I take this up to stress that the debate must be about the whole. We have the phase dealing with global flows and how we address them. We have the phase of meeting this pressure on our borders, how we deal with these asylum applications and provide rapid returns if they do not need protection, and this is an integration policy which ultimately ends up in our communities and which the local politicians must ensure is done in a good way. Finally, there was a lot of doubt about our intentions, both in lines and in articles. I have no reason to believe that it will decrease beyond the day. Let's say, for the right, the contractions have never been about helping fewer people. It's about having resources and capacity to help those who really need protection. I want to challenge the opposition representatives to tell us how they intend to do it, and not just criticize us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1043	This is becoming a bit of a strange debate, and let's go back one year in time. Quite exactly one year ago, the majority of population took a decision, a decision taken at a time when the arrows related to migration and immigration to Norway were pointing downwards. Then the bulk of the population found it too well to decide that we would receive 8 000 refugees. Immediately after that decision, statistics show that the influx to Norway changed, and we started to increase to Norway. In addition to the summer and the autumn, we saw that Norway was hit hard by the wave of migration that came. I do not link that to that decision, I link it to a breakdown in the systems across Europe, a breakdown in the Schengen system, a breakdown in the ability of countries and also the willingness to take responsibility for registration and follow-up, and to ensure that refugee flows are not sent, not least migration, just out of their country and over to the next country. We saw a development in Storskog that none of us knew the consequences of. Fortunately, the bulk of the population was able to sit down and discuss the challenges we faced in a fine way in the autumn – a large majority representing 161 of 169 representatives. That led to good agreements. This meant that Norway could signal that we need to change the device of the policy that we had, we need to meet the challenges in a more serious way. This signal has worked — but only together with a number of other measures. Fortunately, a better system has now been put in place in the EU-Turkey Agreement and a number of agreements have been put in place there. It has worked, of course, that a number of countries have extended border controls. Both Sweden and Denmark have done so, as have Austria and a number of other countries. Of course, this means that migration flows stop, and that each country assumes its responsibilities. Furthermore, it has of course also appeared that Russia has done its part. But what happens if these structures change? What happens if the EU decides that these extended border controls cannot continue beyond 1 November, which is the decision? What happens if the agreement between the EU and Turkey breaks down and Turkey decides that the border should be opened, because they do not address the problems that are there? What happens if the huge numbers we see now come across the Mediterranean against Italy and the Mediterranean countries? What happens if the systems fail? It is precisely because it is important that we have legislation in Norway, a system in Norway, which enables us to resist having a pull effect on Norway. For Norway, a relatively small country is demographic. We have limited opportunities to take care of all those who want to get here. Then we also have to make sure that we have the measures in place to take care of it. That's what the government delivered. Through Prop. 90 L provided the government with measures that could just meet this. Then it is sad to see that the bulk of the population does not support all proposals, but the proposals lie here and can be quickly promoted again when the need so warrants. However, a number of proposals for tightening up are being adopted today as a result of the initiative taken by the government. We get the strictest legislation on the immigration side that this country has ever had. But the game that I have heard from some people in the Chamber today is unworthy – the game where you say it could be even more stringent if the government did not vote on their own proposals. It's pointless. Any government is obliged to present the proposals it considers necessary to meet the challenges. It is more a democratic problem that some people feel that proposals should not be made in which they believe. Then we're on the wrong track in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1064	For the Workers' Party, it is essential in the asylum and refugee policy that we have legislation that gives us control of the borders and asylum arrivals to Norway. Furthermore, it is essential that we stick to a good integration policy. Those who are allowed to stay in Norway must get their lives started, receive education, receive language education – they will be contributors to our society. It is then essential that Norway should respect international law and ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers. The Workers' Party shall respect its obligations under international law; those in need of protection shall be accommodated. However, at a time when many people are also seeking asylum without the need for protection, restrictions are necessary. The rules of protection never, and never, apply to those who come exclusively to Norway because they want a better life. Therefore, we believe it is important to continue to be consistent and tighten the rules in such a way that we can provide protection to those who fill the conditions for it. I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber have joined several of the proposals behind the Workers' Party. It is important that Norway’s policy in this field is as broadly anchored as possible, and that such a majority ensures a consistent policy that can last over time. I also state that neither the extreme right nor the extreme left in Norwegian policy provides for a majority in asylum and immigration policy. It hasn't been, and it won't be like that today. Then I record that in the debate towards and in the consideration of this matter in the committee there has been much said from many. The Government and the Council of State had to endure massive criticism of a consultation document containing estimates and inaccuracies of both facts and figures. We can also record that the government parties have not been particularly involved in this matter. The progress party has chosen to drive its own race in the belief that it would serve their cause and their party better than if they would be involved and take responsibility for the whole. Governments have spent a lot of time painting the situation and warning against the consequences if she didn't get it exactly the way she wanted to. In addition, the Council of State has stated that Norway does not tighten up. It's a wrong signal to give, it should be understood and taken over by the Council of State. I am pleased that the representative Njåstad from the Progress Party brought it up in his post and said that Norway is now actually tightening up. I expect the Council of State to listen to that message from its own co-representative. There has been a broad consensus that we cannot have legislation on asylum policy that is significantly different from our neighbouring country. Now we're tightening up, so that's not the case. I hear that the Progress Party believes that we should be at an even more stringent level, but as I said earlier, it has not been and is not such that it is the extremes on the right of Norwegian policy that unite majority voting. The responsibility for bringing together a majority is the other parties in this room that have to take. It is necessary and it is also good for Norwegian asylum and immigration policies. Finally, I just want to say that there are many dilemmas associated with, among other things, unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. I notice that the Council of State goes a long way here in saying that the government's changes to the Children's Code have contributed to increased arrivals of lone minor asylum seekers. Now we do not call for a rematch on the regulation for long-term children, but in the light of the Council's explanation of reasons, it is a bit strange that more temporaryity for children should be the answer with a large "S" – a code that has led to 34 returns from lone minors since 2009, and as the Prime Minister himself says to the VG will apply very little. So finally, I hear the representative Nesvik saying this is a strange debate. It is not a strange debate, it is a real debate, but it may be difficult for the Progress Party to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1087	Last fall we had a influx to our borders that no one had anticipated. In a couple of months last autumn, 20 000 asylum seekers came up, and it is clear that this created enormous challenges throughout our reception chain. Everything from reception, hotel, border control and police to foreign administration was in an exceptional situation. The Foreign Affairs Directorate is still under a high procedural pressure, and it is working hard to settle refugees in Norwegian municipalities as quickly as possible. More people here today have been involved in the back cover we have when this matter is being dealt with. There is still civil war and great unrest in Syria. Several million people are driven away. Naboland, such as Lebanon, Turkey, and Jordan, now receives over one million refugees from Syria. Worldwide, up to 60 million people are driven away for various reasons. Every day we see new images of boats crossing the Mediterranean into Europe. The areas that were already troubled are becoming more alarming due to terrorist organisations and lawless conditions. For the government, the most important thing has been to enable Norway to meet the situation that arose last autumn. There is no doubt that much could have been done better. Many things were discovered along the way, and are now improving. However, it is important to remember that last June we built up our capacity for receiving asylum seekers. In September and November we deleted space for everyone. I want to thank all those who stood on, and stand on, day and night for giving those who needed it the most, the care and treatment they deserved. There is a great deal of respect for the job that was laid down and that is being laid down, not least by the many thousands of volunteers who spend much of their leisure time helping in the situation. The issue today is one of a number of issues and measures put in place by the government to meet the extraordinary arrival of asylum seekers. Already in May, the ‘Siem Pilot’ was hired to be Norway’s contribution to Operation Triton in the Mediterranean. The boat is still there and makes an invaluable effort. I will give tribute to the Norwegian team that makes a formidable effort in the Mediterranean. Throughout the autumn, the government followed up with budgetary powers and proposals for more money to meet the influx. At the beginning of October, the government presented a government budget followed by an additional proposition, which we proposed to spend $9.5 billion. SEK in, among others several case handlers, police officers and reception. In other words, the government has put forward a number of proposals for the Storting to put in place the necessary appropriations. Intensifications in asylum policy are important for several reasons. Firstly, it is absolutely essential that we have control at the border, and that we have the tools to manage extraordinary influxes to Norway. In addition, this has a strong signal power. Secondly, several of the proposed restrictions are really requirements that promote integration. Demands for Norwegian, social knowledge, self-sufficiency or family entertainment are all requirements that promote integration and lead to less strain on our welfare systems. Thirdly, it is important that Norway’s legislation is at the same level as our neighbouring countries. We cannot have legislation that makes Norway more attractive than other countries in Europe. Today, the Stortinge will adopt a series of catch-up proposals. At the moment, the influx of asylum to Norway is low, yes, very low right now. But at the same time we know that the influx last year came on late summer and beyond the fall. Fortunately, we are now better rusted, both resourcefully and legally, to deal with any new large influx. I'm glad. At the same time, the government must follow the situation carefully and quickly return to the Grand Duchy with new proposals if necessary. The last few years of events, the Arab Spring, the war in Syria, the Russian aggression in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, conflict, hunger and war in Africa and terrorist acts, have shown us one thing: Norway becomes part of it. What has been a foreign and security policy before is now rapidly becoming domestic policy. Although the government does not have the backing of all the forthcoming proposals we have made, I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget who still want a more stringent and fairer asylum policy. Those who come to Norway will be given a chance to become good citizens of society who contribute to the creation of value and well-being. That is why we must have a policy that ensures that we have control of the influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1108	It is the word of a Christian People's Party representative that comes to my mind in this debate; Lars Korvald who said that Norway is a country in the world. But the full quote from Korvald was like this: ‘Norway is a country in the world, Mr. President, in war as in peace.’ Fortunately, we have peaceful conditions at home, but we are surrounded by a troubled world, and we also have a duty to care for our own interests. Foreign policy is becoming increasingly domestic policy. Helping people in need, or contributing to security and peace in other countries, we do so for obvious humanitarian and human reasons, but at the same time it is a policy that takes care of Norway's own interests. War, violence and oppressive regimes do not seem to be lacking with the first. Migration and refugees are unfortunately part of the natural order – more or less. The dissolution of Syria and the emergence of ISIL have given millions of people displaced from their homes as a consequence. At the same time, we must not underestimate the fact that a large proportion of those travelling towards Europe come from African countries. Many have completely different reasons than war or persecution to wish for Europe. But Norway takes responsibility at all levels, both out and at home. Norway is a significant humanitarian contributor to Syria and neighbouring countries, the areas of housing millions of people who need food, health, education and water. Norway took the initiative to launch the Syria donor country conference. We are contributing with military capabilities to combat ISIL, and we are making lifesaving efforts for those who are embarking on deadly voyages across the Mediterranean. Even I have twice visited Siem Pilot at Sicilia and can sign the words of Trond Helleland in praise of the crew. I have visited the reception centre at Sicilia, I have visited the reception centre and refugee camps in Greece. Norway contributes to the rescue effort outside Lesvos, and we have contributed to the financing of capacity and quality in Greece’s asylum management. Norway is cooperating with the EU, and we are participating in the European refugee campaign. Not least, this is about relieving Italy and Greece, two countries that deserve all sorts of respect for having managed an extreme situation over a long period of time. Of course, Norway should provide protection for those who have a right to do so, but we must also return those who do not have a right to do so. Closer access to Norway is important, not least in order to safeguard those who are in fact entitled to our protection and to maintain the credibility of the asylum system. After visiting the Mediterranean in several rounds, and when we know that people are constantly drowning in sinking holes, the cycling refugees over Storskog last year may appear in a slightly different light. But because of what happened in Storskog, I think many – even here at home – knew what Italy and Greece had been struggling with and trying to say for a long time, that this is not possible. The current of humans is too great, the systems are overburdened. There is no doubt, therefore, that the influx of people into Europe, and to Norway, had to be limited, and a clearer distinction has to be made between those who are entitled to protection and those who do not. The government has already implemented a wide range of measures to deal with and be prepared for a large influx into Norway. Today, we are dealing with new proposals from the government that will contribute to a better asylum policy and a fairer and more stringent asylum policy. With the proposals Right-wing votes for today, we strengthen our ability to meet our humanitarian obligations while ensuring the proper management of a demanding refugee situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1131	The asylum agreement in Stortinget was concluded because in the period August to November last year we experienced an unusually high increase in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. Both in the media and in the political debate, this was presented as an unexpected situation, for which no one was prepared. I just want to remind you that in 2011, the Stortinget was visited by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who warned us and Europe about what was going on. It was Syria, there were conflicts and crises south of the Sahara, there was a state power in disintegration in Libya. That was a clear speech: Europe is not prepared. We got the first so-called left-to-die boat in the Mediterranean, in the middle of a NATO drill. In the Council of Europe, the refugee crisis has been on the agenda four times a year for the last five years. In August 2015, in the middle of the debate on sanctions against Russia, Norwegian media made a very small note of Russian lempings in the rules on visas for transit acids, without it looking to make the alarm bells ring. International Organization for Migration, IOM, warns: Never have there been so many conflicts and disasters that no one is working on. The boats over the Mediterranean Sea and drowning rags are running again after winter. Close routes - new ones are created. The EU agreement with Turkey is fragile. Europe has no control. I won't dwell on it anymore. We just can't believe it's over. Europe stands in this – together. We're more people who've been to Italy. Tragian challenges everything we stand for from humanitarian values – the values we built Europe on after World War II. Our Declaration of Human Rights and the Court of Justice that enforces it are under pressure, including from our own country. All of us stretched far, partly out of our own comfort zone, to ensure that we had the necessary control of a situation that led to the unrest of many. There were three settlements. Wide political consensus is important to show that Norwegian authorities are able to deal with this in a good way, and thus also to maintain the trust between people like our open, and eventually diverse, communities are built on. It was about giving and taking. It was therefore incredibly sad to see the minister responsible for managing this trust, shortly after the conciliation find the time to proclaim from the front page of the Evening Post that she is concerned about her children's future. Both government and the media moved some fence posts that should have been solidly planted. We should probably guess what was in fermentation. Now we've seen it -- an unworthy game with the greatest refugee disaster after the war as a backdrop. The aid lots clearly state in the setting that the government has changed the assumptions for the settlement on several points. The Progress Party reserved the early right to vote in favour of one proposal, which the aggravating protests protested against the fact that others would be allowed to do in the previous big round. That's why we don't have a wide deal today. That is why the Progress Party can once again regret that not everything is being adopted. It is sad – and irresponsible – that this case is used for self-marking. So some comments on the government's proposal to give all single minor asylum seekers temporary residence when the reason for the stay is that we lack caregivers to return to. The Labour Party does not support this proposal. The hearing authorities say it won't work. The Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe agrees. In a new problem note, he shows that there is ‘push’, not ‘pull’, which is the cause of the refugee situation. He shows how unilateral restraints only make evil worse, because it prevents the only thing that really helps, including ourselves – that's good integration. Then we can't defend putting many children's lives on hold. Good integration is also the only thing that helps in the fight against extreme right forces, which are based on the refugee crisis. It threatens us all. When VG criticises the Workers' Party not to be in charge of an action we put in place, they are in favour of targets. The Prime Minister, and now the Council of State, speak in the same terms. Yes, we introduced temporaryity for lonely over 16 years. It was not an easy decision, but an attempt to balance cross-cutting considerations with children's best interests in mind. There's a difference between a 16-year-old and a 14-year-old. We don't want to lower the threshold any more. The need for protection shall continue to apply. The VG also says that the Workers' Party and the Right have traditionally been united in asylum policy. That's just partially correct. In the previous period, it was more often the Progress Party against the rest, especially when it was time for elections and the Progress Party drew the immigration card. Now it's different. It is not the Workers' Party that has changed sides. It is not the Workers' Party that has put the Advance Party in government and has put them in charge of refugee and integration policy. We are not involved in a game about the future of children – neither for the media nor for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1148	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1151	I record that both the Left and the Center parties say that proposals outside the asylum agreement are not accepted. At that time, it is well worth remembering that the November 2015 asylum agreement had a point about and a point that the government had to come back on its own — if it was supposed to be based on it — with measures if the situation so permits. The government has done that, and that is what is in the asylum agreement. So you could say that you disagree with what the government is proposing, but that it's outside of the agreement – no, it doesn't. It was a clear assignment from this hall. From the Right we believe that it was right that the government made the assessment, in the light of the situation that was, and in the light of a situation that might come. And we also see, from the right-hand side, that we would like to go even further and tighten in some areas. One of those areas is temporary leave for lone minor asylum seekers. There it's important, even though it's quiet right now, that we follow developments carefully, because we may need to reconsider whether the temporary period should be different from what we have today, from 16 years to 18 years. I dare remember that we have asylum recipients for lonely minors where those who live there do not come from war and conflict – do not come from war and conflict. In the EU, 152 per million inhabitants have been received, while in Norway we have received 1,020 per million inhabitants — over 5,000 single minors, and not all of them need protection or come from war and conflict. Sweden has received more than 30,000, or 3,000 per million inhabitants. Norway is not solving this alone, and I am surprised to hear that SV criticises the government for not making international contact, when we have just had a donor country conference, initiated by our government and our prime minister, and when we and our government are using the opportunities we have to have contact with the EU – under the EEA Agreement – and our neighbouring country, which are EU members. So there is an organisation that SV does not hesitate to hook up with, and has not been in contact with, in terms of the EU. It is important that European countries share the burden – ‘sharing the burden’. Per now that's not the case. We can look at Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Slovakia, Ukraine – there are only a few dozen. I just come from Slovakia, where you want to interview each one, and where you really want to stand for the Slovak community. And there's only a few coming in. Finally, I have to draw attention to a legal incurrence, a letter error. This is a minority proposal from the government parties which does not receive a majority. Paragraphs 41(b) and 41(c) first subparagraph, point (f) shall be replaced by the following: permanent residence permit on the basis of the permits referred to in points (a) to (e), cf. § 62 – not «points (a) to (f), cf. § 62’, as it stands in the setting. It says ‘f’, but it has to read ‘e’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1164	Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1167	It is important for us in the Progress Party to explain the overall view we have in a debate where it is natural to go into very many details. In a situation where 60 million people are fleeing, we need to have a goal that is based on how we can help as many of these people as possible. When people need protection, conservation and help, of course, we're going to set up, because if we don't, who's going to do it? If we don't do it when the crisis is going on, when are we going to do it? That is the starting point for the policy of the Progress Party throughout this field. And when we see the amount of costs and resources – which are not just about money – you spend on people who are not really persecuted, the injustice is pretty obvious. Let me give you an example: Sweden spent 70 billion years ago. kr on the direct costs of receiving asylum-seekers. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who is responsible for all the 60 million refugees in the world, has a budget of 35 billion. kr. It says something like the unfairness of a system where you spend more money on receiving people, you have to assess whether these people have protection needs or not, then use resources to transport these people out. That is why, over many years, the Progress Party has been calling for something that seems to be a policy across Europe, namely that there must be greater refugees for the world's refugees, for real asylum seekers, who can ask for protection there, and then people are being taken out according to what they have the capacity to do. It's pretty similar to the system you have for the withdrawal of quota refugees. This would help those with capacity in European countries, while not failing those with no physical, mental or financial resources and opportunities to embark on a dangerous journey. They could be protected, they could have met their primary needs in the receptions in the neighbourhoods, pending either being taken out to European countries, or that there has been peace and stability in their own countries, to which they can then return. It is in that perspective that refugee and asylum policy must be looked at in Europe, where there are relatively few who are coming, given that there are 60 million people who are refugees. But there are so many that they are involved in breaking down the systems that exist in the European countries. There is no need for Norway or other European countries to collapse financially or for the systems of assistance to refugees and asylum seekers to collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1177	It is a very important matter we are dealing with here today, and the result of it is clear changes in our legislation and a follow-up to the settlements adopted earlier in this Chamber. For the Christian People's Party, from day one, since the government promoted its proposals, there have been four points on which we have been concerned in the further discussion: This concerns the question related to children. It concerns issues related to family life and the right to do so. These are the proposals which, in our view, do not promote integration, but rather the opposite. And finally, the fundamental: we need a system in which we comply with our international obligations. We must respect international law. It is in these areas that we have not supported the government in all the proposals that the government has made. This has been the litmus test – from our point of view – and it is at these points that we depart from the proposals submitted by the government. To the matter itself and the way it has been dealt with: I think there is reason to remember that this matter comes as a result of a settlement. We also believe that it would be reasonable that this would have been the starting point for dealing with this matter. We have recorded that the government has chosen to go for its primary proposals. Of course, the government is free to do that, but that obviously means that it has the consequence that other parties do the same thing. And I have to say that I'm surprised at the approach that has been chosen here, in a case that has its origin in a settlement where you choose that procedure anyway. It's not a responsibility that the opposition – whether it's support parties, the real opposition or what to call it – has. It is the government's own responsibility to choose that procedure. If you're dissatisfied with it, you have to look back on who's the basis for it. It's the government parties themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1188	Twice in the spring, commentator Sven Egil Omdal in Bergen's Official Journal wrote very curiously about the refugee crisis and developments in Europe and turned the parallel to the nuclear carpet that is emerging in the years after World War II. Today it is not to shut people in, but to keep them out – it is not between east and west, but directly quote Omdal: ‘between those who are getting more and more and those who are losing what little they had’. It is not the refugees or immigrants who are the cause of the great unemployment experienced by many parts of Europe, or the fact that even in Germany millions of people, despite their closest working life, do not have the power to make ends meet. Unfortunately, there is not only a right-wing populist party in different European countries that either misguided or cynical dishes bake for smiths, treats symptoms, not causes, plays on fear of the fore and nationalism, and uses the refugee crisis consciously to increase its own popularity. Most countries in Europe are closest to the race to the bottom and end up treating people who are at their most desperate, people who are willing to risk anything to save their lives for themselves and their closest ones, almost like a pariah caste, and who are eager to show the power of action indirectly put European cooperation and cohesion at stake. We all agree that it is necessary to tighten, but should we see two lines under the proposals of the government, would not privileged, peaceful Norway be one of many countries in the race, but the country that led the way with negative signs. The Storting would also have legitimized a ministar who calculated the player on the front of the air, and who allowed himself to use words as if the refugees represent the greatest threat the Kingdom has ever faced. Both Norway and Europe need a smart, pooling, security-building leadership to deal with what is probably just the beginning of a prolonged escalating humanitarian crisis that has in itself the strength to reverse European cohesion for years. I want to end up sitting myself: leading politicians don't fear the future, but they see possibilities and find solutions. More than ever, it is important to sanction principles and conventions of international law, to take international responsibility and to be a positive role model. For a small country like Norway, it has historically been entirely decisive and an important contribution to making us the safe, privileged country we are all new to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1203	I said in my main post that we would vote for everything that tightens up, and for all the good suggestions that have been put forward in this matter. I'm not going to comfort the assembly by saying everything we're for, and everything we're against, but I can give the President a list, so that someone knows what the Progress Party will vote for when we come to the reconciliation. I can also rejoice the Centre Party, which was busy with border control, that we vote subsidiaryly for the second best when the best that the government has provided, may not be agreed when the vote comes later. I can also assure you that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 17, which says that a requested government will come back with changed deadlines to apply for family reunification. It is then a little important to draw on the understanding that we have had in the Committee, that it means that the government will come back to the United Kingdom with a collection of proposals for both deadlines and changes in the legislation and regulations for family reunification, and that the current legislation will be as it is until the Grand Duchy has been given consideration to the government's proposal. Then we also think that the maintenance requirement is part of that understanding. I also have to comment on the representative Lauvås, who tried to create the impression that Councillor Listhaug and I had different approaches. Then he could not have listened to the article to the Council of State, Listhaug, who said the same thing. We are pleased that there will be a tighter code, but we should like to see more parties involved in making it even tighter, and the responsibility for not doing so lies especially with the Workers' Party, which has changed from December to today on how strict one wants to be. I also react to the fact that it is produced as a surprise that the government parties vote in favour of the government's proposition, and that one has thus excluded one from being able to have subsidiary agreement with the other party. It's as wrong as it's going to be, and when it's repeated once again from several that you could get more tightening by sitting in a closed room and negotiating, I almost have to challenge them as if they thought it was. What are the limits that you could have got on a back room, which you can't get through voting in the hall? Then a person can use this debate to tell people. We've been trying to get some more parties about a lot, and there was no one who would get us to meet the points that the government has made. But there's one last possibility today, and that's to press for the government's proposals – for those parties that don't want to take responsibility for not getting the strictest legislation the Progress Party wants. In my last 26 seconds, there is one proposal that I am particularly responding to, and that the majority is involved in, and it is Decision XV, which is that ‘The government asks the government to assess rapid steps for proceedings in clear cases of consent’. It has an enormous pull effect, as I think it is, to say that one should treat concessions quickly when we treat contractions in the Stortinge today. I could well imagine that the council could say a little about how she assesses the pull effect on it, and I would appeal to the majority to take responsibility and vote against Decision XV, because we cannot have such a pull effect agreed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1214	The President is pleased with the explanation of vote that has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1217	We're dealing with several cases now, and then it's okay to also say a few words about the other case, about opening up the rooming of people who are subject to the rapid processing procedure, the so-called 48-hour procedure. This applies to persons with obvious groundless asylum applications returned to a country to which it is safe to return. The reason for this is that asylum seekers disappear before the decision is made by the foreign authorities, and short-term detention also ensures a better chance of a rapid return. I'd like to stress that it's going to be short-lived, maximum 72 hours, and preferably even shorter. For the Left, it has been absolutely essential that exemptions be made for minors and families with children, that we cannot internalize children. The reporting obligation or specific location is less extensive. The left needs to stress that the procedure only applies to a limited number of countries under which international human rights are respected at an acceptable level and that any extension must be limited to countries currently treated in the 3U procedure. The left is pleased that there is a majority in the Committee and considers that caution should be exercised in increasing the use of coercive measures against persons who have committed criminal acts. The majority also agree that the basis cannot be used in general. The change only provides an opportunity to apprehend and imprison. The majority, including the Left, also considers that a proportionality assessment must be carried out. With regard to the first matter, I would like to give an explanation of vote. In relation to the ancillary requirement, which is also part of what has been submitted, the Left refers to the nomination and supports the proposal for access requirements and family reunification with the leads contained in the observations and proposals of the majority. However, the uncertainty about such an attachment requirement is in line with international law, and the fact that Denmark was convicted in EMD on 24 May 2016 to make demands for connection still leads us to vote against § 51 new third and fourth paragraphs, as reported earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1228	The President thanked for the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1231	It has been interesting to listen to the debate. Many speakers have been concerned with the broad comparisons made in winter on immigration regulation and integration. It is true that the comparisons have created a good basis for further follow-up in Stortinget. Today’s attitude also shows that the parties at Stortinget agree on a very large number of proposals, and that after today’s treatment we will have a better and wider platform for immigration policy than we have had in the past. It's important. The majority of the proposals proposed by the government receive the majority. There are a few suggestions it's not going to be a majority for today. One of them is about single minor asylum seekers. There are some of us who consider it this way – but the Center Party is committed to what we have been into in the past about single minors between 16 and 18 years of age – that there is a significant difference between minors aged 12 and minors aged 16 years. There's a big difference between having a need for protection and not having it. In the case of family union, it is correct that one in the agreement said that it should be tightened up. It also proposes the majority today, but not to tighten up as much as the Progress Party would have liked. It is not all government councils that fail to make such a broad agreement underpin the policy they are going to put before the Storting. It is also not all the government councils that fail to reconcile so many parties for the policy they are going to put before the Storting, and the majority in the Chamber have loyally followed it up through the situation that is being discussed here today. Then it's surprising that over several weeks in all kinds of newspapers, the Council of State has chosen to talk down three-quarters of its own proposals, which today have a majority. It's hard to understand why the Council of State is talking down the contractions that are actually being done here today, because that's what she's doing when she's been talking down the last few weeks that she's been making, and today she's getting a majority. It is remarkable and funny, because it can give the impression that Norway is not making any restrictions today, and that is probably the opposite of what the Council of State wants to create toward the world around it. But we all know why that happens. This is because the Council of State puts the political game ahead of the content of the matter. It becomes more important to attack a party than it is to discuss matters in itself. It is more important to focus on the few proposals for which you do not receive a majority than on the majority for which you are given a majority. So I have to use my last seconds to say a little bit about border control. Once again, border control is not the exception in the world. It's the usual, the common, in the world. Schengen is the exception, and Schengen has collapsed. Europe’s debate on external and internal borders has collapsed, and then one should not pretend to be the case and hide behind the temporary border controls imposed by other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1244	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the volunteers, who have done a great job when many came to Norway and the municipalities. Without them, this had razed completely, because the government was totally passive. The Storting even had to ask the government to sort out the Storskog. The amendment of the law, the urgent decision that the Stortinget made then, has not been a posteriori. Now you have to deal with asylum applications. So sail if I now want to thank the representatives of Terje Breivik, Lise Christoffersen and Stine Renate Håheim for very good contributions, the criticism of the SV against the majority is by law: what in the world happened when you were able to get rid of the government's horrors to help promote and ask them to promote proposals that are contrary to our international obligations and that would affect those who have protection needs? I also need to ask about these tightenings that are now to be done with border control: everyone understands that there is a need to do something on the border if there are thousands of people there. This is the situation that Lebanon is experiencing, that Turkey is experiencing, that Jordan is experiencing – and that Lebanon has closed the border. In Norway, however, it is believed that in such an emergency situation, there are individual policemen who are to stand on the border and reject thousands of refugees. So when we expect the neighbourhoods to set up when the crisis is at their limit, we make a kind of proposal that I believe will not be able to function in such a situation for all practical purposes, but that is not the case. So there's a lot here that's not right. Finally, the representative of Schou may not have heard my post. However, there is reason to criticise the government for all the exasperation and lack of action they have shown in dealing with the situation in Norway. The rescue action in the Mediterranean has been proposed by the Swedish authorities. The government and the majority voted it down. Then, in retrospect, came it. We have asked the government to take the initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement and get a better sharing of responsibilities. The government parties and the majority of the population have voted it down. I know that the representative of the Council of Europe has been away with this, but there has been no impact in this Chamber. We have asked the government to take other international initiatives to solve the refugee situation – not necessarily that no one should come to Norway, but that together with others, we can save the lives of people and secure them. It is true that the government has allocated more money to the neighbourhoods. That's good, that's what I said in my post, but of course, it's too little when people sitting there experience that their kids don't get school in many years, and that the mattresses are halved. That's when people run away!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1257	I want to start by repeating something that the representative Stine Renate Håheim said so wisely: we don't have a crisis here, it's the millions of people living on the run, who are in crisis. We have a responsibility and we have an obligation to remedy the situation. When I listen to the debate, I reflect around a few things: to me it's like nothing is black or white, nothing is either or. I've learned, after living in life for 49 years, that politics is the art of possibility. There's tradition in this hall, in this house, to come together in demanding times, because then it also stands through tomorrow. But to get to that, one would have to, wish it. The party of progress did not want that, and the Prime Minister has allowed himself to dictate – in fact by Carl I. Hagen – that one should not do this. I want to thank those who would like to join in trying to get to something, and I also want to thank those who at least tried to get to something. Because it's like no one has monopoly on the mind – it's pretty much the same for all of us. In this room there are ideological differences, and it should be, but I have learned that knowledge and insight from professionals – and even from people in other parties – have shifted opinions, it has shifted vision, and it has also done so in myself. If the Council of State would honestly get a broad deal, she and her had to come around the table and wanted it – in a real way. But it's like in the fairy tale "Prince won't" – I'm not going to tell you what it is, it can read afterwards, but it didn't go very well with the princess will not eventually. It's like the rhetoric of the Council of State is, it's been completely equal a week after week – she's comparing Sweden and China, she's telling the boring thing that the Workers' Party is waving, and that the course has changed. The Workers' Party said in the Rome Christmas that we should deal with the matter internally in the party, but we already said that we agreed with the government on several of the points. But unlike the Progress Party, which is just what they think is right, we have listened to lawyers, lawyers and volunteering, also the volunteers who work outside, and that is the knowledge – and our programme – that has formed the basis for the proposals we have made and that has also formed the basis for the proposals we are making, on which the government has promoted. The focus is on «strong», «just» and «human», but it means that at least one has two thoughts in his head at the same time and is concerned about finding solutions. I feel that the Progress Party is busy being strict, and then a fair and humane one forgets. I think the committee chairman said it quite well in his last post. He says that there really wasn't any sense in sitting around the table, because no one would listen to them anyway. It's not exactly a good starting point to go into negotiations and conversations with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1274	I had a question to the representative of Mr Greni earlier today about why the Central Party wants Norway to withdraw from the Schengen Agreement. It is quite incredible that the Central Party believes that, in the situation we are currently in, we are going to rock through the European cooperation that exists around border controls. Does the Centre Party believe that one can pick à la carte of measures that can control the flow through Europe? Does the Central Party believe that one can get control of the situation if one does not have broad cooperation across Europe to register and follow up on who is on the road across Europe, for example criminals or people who have applied for asylum in other countries? When the representative of the Central Party says that Schengen cooperation is not working, should not the Central Party rather focus on how to strengthen European cooperation rather than weaken it? The situation today is that there is an increasing flow of refugees to Europe. There are tens of millions of refugees. We see several boatloads on the way across the Mediterranean – many of them with tragic results. Turkey is doing well today. We have to assume that part of the refugee dream that is on its way to Europe will come further north, and part of it will come to Norway. The government indicates in its proposal that the migration challenges in Europe are highly topical in the EU and in Schengen cooperation. Norway shall participate in this cooperation, and I am pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1283	Mr Njåstad has now explained to the Right and the Advance Party the vote in which we vote subsidiaryly, so I am saved for it. That's very good. I also hope that the Centre Party will be able to explain a little about its position on XV, about this quick track. I think it is surprising that the Central Party is involved in this when it comes to a quick track and getting asylum seekers to get right to work without a reservation that you have proved who you are, and that you actually have a need for protection. Then it is that people in crisis, in war, in flight and in poverty also read electronically. So do criminals. It's enough to refer to the debate we had last year on whether we should accept 10,000 quota refugees, as someone thought, who became 8,000 quota refugees over three years old, and when someone came to our borders and thought they were invited. Then the message and the signal have gone out in the world, and you read what you want – as sometimes we can do. You also read it this way, especially when you are in a desperate situation, that we can go to Norway. It is also true that Norway is an end station on a fluctrate that starts far out there, in Syria or in Afghanistan or other countries far away from farms. Then it's important that we have measures that work, because that's how you read it out there. I recall once again that I believe that we need to get back to the situation in relation to temporaryity and lone minor asylum seekers. It's a situation we're going to follow closely, but as we certainly can't say is clear the way the situation is now. Nor is it the case that Norway is the only country that is now implementing restrictions on asylum policy. Several European countries are implementing the same as a response to the massive influx that has occurred. Both Sweden and Germany have also proposed temporary restrictions on the right to family reunification, and I think it is unfortunate that we do not have legislation that is more harmonised with our neighbours. In conclusion, I will just repeat to the representative Andersen that Norway contributes more than a very large number of other countries. We are almost at the top of the neighbourhoods and in the assistance there, and we contribute in the Mediterranean with both the ‘Peter Henry von Koss’ and the ‘Siem Pilot’, which several in the hall, including myself, have been present at and seen the important work done by the Nordics outside. So the fact that Norway doesn't contribute in a lot of areas in the arenas we're in with the means and resources we have is completely wrong to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1299	It was the representative of Njåstad's wish that I should say a little about it with quick tracks, which I am very surprised that a majority will vote in favour. This was after what I understood, a proposal that was on the table before Christmas when one discussed tightening, and it was not for good reason part of the asylum agreement, because it actually does involve an embellishment. I was visiting the Oslo police earlier this week and was told a little about how to work with ID-jux, which is quite extensive, and you also got a glimpse of how many things you have really worked with. It is clear that when there is a high percentage of approval in some cases, there is also an increase in the flow within these categories, as well as in those who try to cheat. Then to the representative of Christoffersen. Yes, I was asked by the evening post if I was worried about my children's future. I think most of the parents are. I've learned where I come from. You don't have to lie. What we're doing is going to matter in the future. We have to think about what welfare model we're going to have in the future. We need to think about the sustainability of welfare services, welfare systems. We need to think about how the labour market in Norway is going to develop. We have a labour market in Norway where it is very difficult for those without education. Many of those who come have no education. Many of them are also illiterate and start at scratch. That's why it's important to take with you when you think about how to control this forward. I registered that the representative Breivik was talking about the government spreading fear of alienation. I just want to distance myself from the pulpit from such a characteristic, and I think it's time we ended up with that kind of techniques of rule. It is therefore the case that there is a realistic debate in Norway and we should be able to discuss what is the challenge. That's at least I'm concerned about, and I think that's what I'm standing by. When we look at our neighboring country, where you've got things swept under the carpet, you also see the challenges that have swept and that now come to the surface in rich monn. I don't want Norway to go there. Finally, to the representative Arnstad, who was talking about political games. I just want to remind you that the government and government parties have stood firm in this matter all along. We haven't winged. We've stood firm whether it's been popular or unpopular. What surprises me is that more parties say you had more to go on, you could be involved in further tightening. Then I think it would have been good if we had suggested it, so that we could have an even more stringent policy. I have been very clear today that what is being adopted is becoming restrictive. It will be the most stringent immigration policy Norway has ever had, but we should like it to be even more stringent. And it's the signals to go out, that it's going to be the most stringent immigration policy ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1312	Everyone wants to help the world's poor and persecuted. That's what we've gotten into with our mother's milk, our mission, and through the country's Christian-cultural heritage. It's when these ideals collide with the consequences that you get lost. Someone chooses to close their eyes and hopes that eventually things will go well. You don't want to learn – you want to integrate. It is presented as if it is language and work that is key to integration, but it is not. Of course, language and work are important, but it is only a practical part of what it means to be integrated. It's the acceptance of our values of freedom that is the key. It is only when an immigrant has understood that our society is based on individualism and has accepted that in the Western world is not equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, tolerance, pluralism, religious freedom and sexual freedom advisory. They are absolute – they must be assimilated. Then those who stay in the country must adapt the parts of their culture and religion that violate these values. Today we experience the opposite. Europe experiences segregation, aggression and Muslim extremism. This is not due to socio-economic conditions. This is due to a lack of willingness to adapt. Our freedom-based culture is perceived as a weakness, and that is why the countries that have had the largest and fastest immigration are struggling the most. Immigration and integration are two sides of the same coin. This is precisely why immigration needs to be limited. You might want to help, but we can't help so much that the very basis for giving help disappears. This applies both culturally and economically. Today, more than half of the Northmen of Pakistani origin pick up spouses in their parents’ country of origin. These are young men, born in Norway. Of course, the woman does not speak Norwegian. She gets the responsibility to raise her children. The result is that seven out of ten Northmen with a Pakistani background need special education in Norwegian at school start. Family establishment is the greatest obstacle to the adaptation and assimilation of our values of freedom. Therefore, the decision on access requirements and the 24 year age limit are very central. It is difficult to present figures in terms of lack of acceptance of values of freedom, but punctuations are lack of freedom for women, demonstrations against freedom of expression, lack of religious freedom and lack of acceptance for homophilis. But there are numbers for family reunification and participation in the labour market. Let me introduce someone. In 2008 was 50 pst. by the immigrants from Africa employed. In 2015, the figure was 41 pst. The figure for Asia was 53 pst. Syrian immigrants had the lowest employment rate in all countries, with 20 pst. Employment figures by country clearly show that culture counts. Muslim countries are all located in the lower part of the employment scale, while Asian countries such as India are higher by 59 pst, Eastern European countries such as Poland by 70 pst, and Swedes by 78 pst. There were 31,000 asylum seekers in Norway in 2015. Historically, three out of four will be accommodated, or approx. Twenty-three thousand. Furthermore, each SSB-according refugee will be granted, on average, family reunification for 0.73 persons. Thus, 23 000 becomes 40,000 – or let me use an analogy: a full Ullevål stadium, while 12 000 do not fit. This is the number's speech, an inflow completely without sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1331	It has been interesting to follow this debate. There was a good starting point for constructive cooperation with broad consensus before Christmas, where the Stortingen showed great responsibility and quickly addressed the necessary measures. But the possibility of building on the best in Stortinget, that we can find together on major national issues, has been squandered by the government parties. To a large extent, the parties of government today suffer defeat, and that is simply because they chose political games themselves rather than leadership. Part of that game has been made up of claims that the Workers' Party has turned around – we have heard that here today. I had the pleasure of being responsible for this matter under the government of Stoltenberg, both in the autumn of 2008 and in the summer of 2009 when we presented tightening measures. And we did it mainly with SV and with the Center Party in full. I can assure you that in none of the areas in which we tightened up, the Workers' Party has turned around. In the case of single minors, some have produced it as if – the Council of State did it instead – we should be involved in further tightening, and that we have turned around. No, we're in exactly the same assessment that we made under the government of Stoltenberg. We still believe it is right to have the possibility of a temporary stay for those who would otherwise not have been allowed to stay, but where one cannot find a caregiver. But there's something quite different than the expansion that the government is now facing. On the contrary, we have not turned around, but we have worked hard on the proposals that have been made, and developed a separate platform on which the Labour Party is safe, with the necessary strict immigration policy, but at the same time an inclusive integration policy. Those things belong together, it's a continuation of our line. And it is to a large extent our overall alternative that is finally adopted. I must be allowed to say that it was liberating to hear the contributions of Greece, which also pointed to the responsibility we have for the people who are actually coming to Norway and are going to be here, that we are getting a good inclusion policy – not signs of spreading myths or scaring the inhabitants, as Terje Breivik described very nicely in his post. The government has chosen political games rather than leadership. I'm not very disappointed with the Progress Party, because I didn't have much more expectation, but I miss leadership from the country's prime minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1344	The Labour Party has to start deciding, because they're not in a spat only on these issues in general, but they are doing it in the debate today. The Group leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, is starting the debate here today by stating that there will be significant restrictions as a result of the proposition put forward, while the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, believes that this has failed. Let me remind you how this proposition was made and what it is based on. The proposition is based on three elements. One is the asylum agreement that was concluded before Christmas. 161 of 169 representatives supported that agreement. Secondly, it is based on the Nydalen Agreement, which is between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. And the third point is the order Stortinget put in to the government to come back with appropriate measures adapted to the situation. That negotiations were then to be held on the negotiations that had been held would at least have been taken by the government. The Government has submitted a proposition in response to the agreements concluded. Of course, the fact that someone disagrees with it is quite legitimate, but you can't imagine it as if the government parties didn't want to negotiate. What should we negotiate? If the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and other parties consider it possible to have more restrictions, why have they not made these proposals? After all, all the parties have presented their primary positions. The progress party said from day one that this is a matter that we treat in an ordinary way. We do not find ourselves in an undemocratic approach where parties in Norway's National Assembly are to be refused to vote in favour of policies which they believe are absolutely necessary for the future of the country. And that's what we've been doing. If the Labour Party believes that there are more restrictions that are possible in this case, where are these? Why is it necessary to negotiate after negotiations in order to present what kind of restraints you want? The Labour Party has put forward its proposals in this matter. One of them means that there will be more liberal policies than what is in Sweden. The Labour Party's representatives have misunderstood and asked: Why has the Progress Party not copied Sweden's policy? That is because we disagree with Sweden's policy. We have proposed significantly stricter policies on family reunification. The point is that the Labour Party is promoting proposals that are also liberalizing in that field. Then they come to the hall and say that it would be possible to have further restrictions if you had had more negotiations. It's not for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1355	The claims of the Progress Party that the Workers' Party is the leader of a liberalizing policy are not, of course, true even if they are repeated very, very often. Not on one point does the Labour Party propose to liberalise asylum policy, on the contrary. Then I will comment on a few of the issues raised in the debate. Firstly, as the chairman of the Committee has commented on, this concerns a proposal to consider rapid tracks. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party will vote against assessing it – I do not know if it is due to a failure in trust with the government’s judgement or anything else. Faster processing is a very central part of the asylum agreement, and there should be no need to look for improvement opportunities and faster opportunities. The Labour Party has not called for any decoration of the legislation as such or to change the restrictions on protection, nor to change the requirements on ID, as this was suggested. Secondly, I record that the Advance Party and the Right are trying to create a false impression, that the Workers' Party does not want refugees to do their own thing. It's completely wrong. Our approach to this is to make demands, and we're going to make demands. The demands we make must be realistic, otherwise they have no value. I want to say it so strongly: I want to ask myself that the Progress Party teaches the Workers' Party to handle itself, as long as the Advance Party holds the cash support, a targeted scheme to pay immigrant women to stay out of work. I would like to remind you once again that four out of ten cash beneficiaries have a migrant background. Finally, as many representatives have underlined, also Dag Terje Andersen: The Storting is making significant cuts today. I expect the Council of State to communicate it too – and stop travelling on a tour in Europe to market almost how liberal it has become in Norway. It doesn't help that it's ripping wrong, if that's what's left behind after the Council of State Europe tour. I expect the government to take the responsibility they have, and that they will now implement and also communicate correctly the policies and legislative changes of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1366	I can say to the representative Keshvari that no then, the centre party shall not refuse the Progress Party and the Right neither to vote nor to argue for anything. We are pleased that three-quarters of the 40 proposals for tightening up launched by the Council of State are going to be adopted here today – we are pleased about that. That's why we don't fully understand why the Council of State has spent so much time talking down the restrictions she actually gets adopted, because it can easily give the impression that Norway doesn't make any cuts — and that's the opposite of what the Council of State should want to communicate to the outside world. That's when we say that it looks like it's more important for the Council of State to attack parties than to discuss matters. It becomes more important to focus on the fourth she doesn't get through than on the three quarters that are adopted today. It's sad, it's a shame for the cause. I was not able to say everything I wanted about border control, so I am happy that the representative soldering meal gave me the opportunity to do so. First, I would like to say that the proposal adopted here today, on expulsion at the border, is considerably tougher than the general border control. A border control is not a myth, it is simply an opportunity to have an overview of who comes to the kingdom, and who is in the kingdom at all times. It is – as I said in my post – neither is the exception in the world around us, border control is the usual. It is Europe that is the exception, it is Europe that has introduced Schengen, and it does not work today. Europe does not control its external borders. Thus, the idea of inner openness has also collapsed. There are many who later appear not to be the case, and who are probably leaning on – and in their quiet mind have crossed their fingers – that other countries down in Europe have introduced border controls, so we can hope that it will last, without having to take a debate on the issue of border control. Border controls themselves do not prevent asylum applications either. The person entering a Norwegian border has the right to deal with his asylum application even when he has border control, but it gives Norway the opportunity to have control over who is crossing the Norwegian border and who is in the kingdom at all times. There is also no contradiction between participation in police cooperation and having border control. We have an agreement with Europol, we have concluded a number of conventions relating to both police and criminal cooperation with European countries, and we have the opportunity to maintain that part of the sea if we introduce border controls in Norway. On the part of the Centre Party, we look forward to the follow-up to the decisions that are being taken today, as well as to the further debate – which I hope will be as extensive – on integration measures and on how to settle the refugees who have now arrived in Norway and who are staying here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1388	I have to say that I am a little surprised that both Njåstad and Schou are so upset by the proposal for Decision XV, because in paragraph 3 of the asylum agreement it says that we should strengthen the procedure and dampen the pressure on the reception apparatus, and the ministry is also concerned with the same in its communications. On page 19 of the Integration Communication: ‘It may be appropriate to introduce certain measures in respect of groups with a high probability of having their application for protection during periods of long processing.’ That's just what we're doing here, we're trying to think about what we can do. We've now provided a quick track in terms of obvious rejection cases, and that's very good, it needs to be prioritised, but at the same time we see that despite large allocations to the UDI, they don't get the processing capacity up satisfactorily, and there's going to be a lot of leftovers. In Finland, for example: has been handled in a much better way. They have been able to keep up with the increased inflow, and they do not allow so many to accumulate in reception. So it sounds like we've suggested that a fast track should be started. We haven't. The Government is asked to ‘assess rapid steps of procedure in clear cases of consent in order to free up procedural capacity’. We are therefore asking the government to ‘assess’ this, and I can guarantee that if that assessment by the government is based on the fact that it will have negative consequences for the influx of asylum or other negative consequences, the Senter party will vote against if such proposals are promoted here in the Chamber. But when Schou and Njåstad are afraid that the government will make such an assessment, I must almost wonder if they do not trust that the government will do this in a good way, and make good judgements. I have faith that the Council of State will make good judgements, and ask that it be assessed to bring down the queue that is in receipt. As of today, it is in fact that there is free settlement capacity around the municipalities, but the processing time is so long that there is no one to settle. It's very unfortunate, because the municipalities that have done a great job of housing are now losing motivation. They say themselves that it is incredibly impractical if everyone is to come in December. They want a steady influx of refugees to be settled throughout the year. It'll make integration easier, and it'll make the settlement easier. But it's a matter of asking the government to "assess" a quick track, and I actually believe that the government will make a good assessment, even if Njåstad and Schou don't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1404	There has been a long week in the Storting, where we have seen a lot of strange things, but in this case we shall see something quite unique, and that is that the Right and the Advance Party will vote for the proposals they themselves have made to the Storing. We haven't seen that much of this week. On Monday, state councillor Helgesen was softened by his own party and got his wolf message placed in the drawer. A little later today, the Progress Party will vote off its own proposals to give people most more power in the event of a big shot, but Sylvi Listhaug will not be voted down. She gets full support from the Right and the Advance Party. Well, that's what you call an executive. I want to say that it's strange to see that one has a situation where a large majority in Stortinget wants significant contractions, and then it doesn't allow itself to materialize completely, and the result is more liberal than it would otherwise be. I don't have a big problem with it, I didn't think liberal is a shell word, but it doesn't seem to have a big problem with it, either. One might ask, why? Maybe it's because the goal is to make the Advance Party big and not the refugee dream small – two goals that hardly ever came together. One can also discuss how much the decisions we make in this room mean in practice. They mean a good deal, of course, but I still think it's a good idea to remember what really matters, and that's what's happening in the world outside of us. The escape dream to Norway did not slow down in the fall because the Stortinget made a decision because Sweden and Denmark introduced border controls. The refugee dream of Europe did not slow down because the various parliaments made decisions, it was because the EU made an agreement with Turkey, and he can say a lot about it, but he has produced results. I think we should have control of the external borders of Europe, it is important, but it is also important that Europe accepts many who need protection, and that one has a distribution mechanism that ensures that not a few countries take that job completely, but that all the countries of Europe are involved. Had we had such a distribution mechanism, the number of those who came to Norway, Germany, Austria and Sweden last year would be much lower, and it would probably be a little higher in Poland, Iceland, Portugal, the Baltic. We need more European solidarity, and I hope, at least, that the Council of State Listhaug and the Government will present it in their meeting with our neighbouring countries, in their meeting with politicians at EU level, because in the long term it is the only viable and humane solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1415	I heard that the representative Njåstad tried to give the Workers' Party responsibility for not getting tighter. It was a good attempt, but to put the matter like that on your head, you can't do it in the name of honesty. This is because it is probably Njåstad's own, at least his party's, strategy that has led to the Progress Party itself now sitting on the outside and not getting what they could have got if they – I had almost said – had behaved differently. It is therefore impossible to blame the Workers' Party for the failure of the Progress Party's own strategy in this matter. I also heard that the Council of State, Listhaug, and the representative, Njåstad, are saying the same thing now. Nejåstad has now correctly confirmed – and I have heard him earlier this week and also on the radio today – that there will be tightening. But like others, I have come to realize that the Council of State, Listhaug, has traveled around the country and the beach, even abroad, and expressed something quite different, namely that there are no restrictions. I'm glad that it's now clarified, and that now you have to say what's right. The government gets tighter, the government gets tighter, and then it's expecting them to use that tool wisely and sensibly. In their last article, the Council of State itself confirms that there will be tightening and that that is what is now to be communicated. It was time to get that confirmation, since the council itself opened its post saying that it is very important not to lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1424	I want to start with the positive in that we're treated tightening up and integrating about simultaneously, because there are two sides that affect a comprehensive case complex, and it's very good that we have the two perspectives. We're going to take it next week. What strikes me is that we read the situation equally in most parties, but we describe it so differently. When I hear the Council of State has been in Italy and the way you use it as some sort of instrumental grip to describe the danger here in Norway, I wonder a little about the description. I've also been to Lampedusa, and I've been to Sicilia several times. I've been agreeing to accept refugees in Italy and see and understand the problem, but I couldn't imagine using it as an argument, because there's a completely different situation they have down there. With regard to the reality description of the progress of the case here, the Christian People's Party has said the same thing since December 29, when the Council of State made the announcement. Then I would think that the big parties Right and the Advance Party were interested in untying the government's proposal through the Stortinget. Instead, they said: Please be quiet in the boat and vote us down, and we will cooperate. Keshvari described it as an undemocratic approach. But we never thought that they could not vote on their own proposal first. We never meant that. They can just do that. But that's not cooperation. We cannot cooperate under those conditions, that one comes with such a attachment and says that his silence, so we are shown that our government loses the matter, etc. That's how it ended. But there are tightenings, and we are happy in the Christian People's Party. The country needs new things, and we have managed to protect what was important to us in our party. Finally, I would just like to say that in accordance with the suspension, the Christian People's Party will not support changes to the fifth paragraph of Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act, § 32 new sixth paragraph, § 34, second paragraph, § 62, first paragraph, point (f), § 90, third paragraph, § 105, first paragraph, point (e), § 106, first paragraph, point (g) and § 106a, first paragraph, point (k).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1436	There is a lot that is being said about the Progress Party that gives us the basis to comment. Especially bad was what the representative Lauvås said, that we could have got more if we had behaved differently. I have called for earlier in the debate: what more could we have received if we had cooperated with other parties in the back room? Can anyone tell the locals what we could have gotten? We've been trying to get more tightening up for months. We have not had more restraints than those underlying the proposition, but when the representative Lauvås tells us that we could have had more if we had behaved differently, almost the Norwegian people must know what more the Labour Party could have voted for if the Progress Party had behaved differently. One has the chance to express it in the debate or at the vote today. It would be very strange if the country could have had the necessary tightening of the Labour Party that one does not get because the Progress Party has not behaved in a normal way. It's almost unthinkable that you can have such a hold. But it just confirms what I said, that the Labour Party has to take the lead so that we don't get all the tightening up that the country had crunched. The right hand side of the board and the right hand side of the board vote for the tightening. If the Workers' Party had done the same thing, it would have been agreed, it would have been plural, and then the great party would have to bear the responsibility if the situation had led to their proposals being necessary to prevent a great stranglehold. That we don't get multiple numbers for all of this today is not primarily a defeat for the government, but for our country. I also react to the fact that Andersen said that in his time as the Council of State they did something quite different when they brought matters before the Stortinget. I don't think the representative presented matters to the Stortinget that he didn't want the Labour Party's big group to vote for. Nor can I imagine that the Stoltenberg government is making a tightening-up proposal as they came to the Storting and the water out, as they did milder, and as they hoped it was not agreed. As far as I'm concerned, it was one thing that was for, and that one thought was necessary, that time, in exactly the same way that we've done this time. Our government was commissioned by 161 representatives to provide additional measures. They have. Our size group sees it as a minimum of what is needed. That's why we vote in favour. It's by no means right that we want it to be downgraded, as some people said. We want it to get plural. That's why we're standing on every single day to get multiples, and that's why we're appealing as best we can for more than one minority to vote for the proposals that Erna and Sylvi put forward. Our country needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1443	Of course, I agree with the Council of State that we should all strive to test both this and other debates on the facts. Therefore, I expected the Council of State to reply politely and not by claiming that we are using ruling techniques. I have great respect for parents who fear for future children. Who doesn't? But maybe the Norwegian kid who's got new classmates from Syria, at least needs to hear from a responsible state council, is that the new classmates represent a threat. In fact, there are a lot of parents in Syria and the surrounding areas and in refugee camps in Turkey who have as good a reason to fear the future of their own children and grandchildren as I and others in this room might have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1450	There has been a relatively predictable debate to follow. It is often the case in politics that if you do not want to discuss the realities of the proposals, you turn your attention to the process, to which words have been used – not least there has been a great focus on the person Sylvi Listhaug – and I think it is quite obvious that the reason for this is that there are more people who want to camouflage that you change politics continuously, depending on how people feel at all times. However, what we are actually to measure today is what proposals each representative and each party is voting in favour of, and what proposals you are voting against. Some parties claim that if you had a different process, you would have had even stronger contractions. Yes, those parties are quite free here today to promote the proposals they want for further tightening, and they are also quite free to vote in favour of the tightening proposals that Erna and Sylvi have put forward. So a little bit to some of the arguments the Working Party uses for its reverse operation. The representative Eirin Sund explained the Workers' Party's turnaround that they have listened to some lawyers and organisations. It is well and good to listen to lawyers and organizations, but my question to the Labour Party is, when are they going to listen to the Norwegian people, to the people we are actually elected to represent? I think the Norwegian people have a strong desire to help, but you want to help as many people as possible, not conduct a symbol policy, and unfortunately we see that more parties are doing here today. Take the challenge with minor children who are sent on dangerous journeys and who are being exploited in the worst possible way by traffickers: The government is proposing to do something about it, measures that can help stop this dangerous journey, but then unfortunately the Workers' Party chooses to ignore suggestions they themselves made when they were in government, and rather chooses to put themselves on a populist line. So I want to say, I'm glad that we get to these significant contractions, but I'm disappointed with the wing of some parties, and I want to say that the Workers' Party here assumes a considerable responsibility for many human beings – people who may now continue on dangerous journeys.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1459	Let me make it clear right away that I have the greatest respect for all deposit representatives. But I've been in the Progress Party for so long that I've been thrown after myself a little bit of each other over the years, and that's why I think one should stop talking about spreading fear of strangers, when what you're doing is dealing with real challenges. The representative, Rotevatn, was concerned that my goal was to make the party big, not the flow of refugees small. I just want to remind you that during this year, fewer people have come to Norway as asylum seekers than to some of our neighbouring countries. The whole purpose of the job I've done is to send out signals that Norway is a strict country and that we want to pursue a more stringent policy. We will continue to do so, because we are today adopting the strictest policy that Norway has ever had in the field of immigration. So to the representative Lauvås: If he had heard well after what I said – and he did so gradually, based on the post he had now – he would have heard that it was exactly what was my point, and that is important to get out. But then it's not to stick under faith that in some areas we adopt, according to what we mean, not strict enough rules. You must also be able to point out a day like this. So to the representative Tuskedal, who talked about Italy, and that I used it as an "instrumental grip." I do not understand that. My goal to travel to Italy was to put me in the situation down there, talk to the Italian authorities and figure out what's going on. What's happening now is that we see an increasing influx from Libya to Italy, we see an increasing influx of young lone boys, we see that many of the boats that go from Libya came from Egypt – they go over to Libya, and then they go over. We also see that there is now a slight increase in the number of refugees from Egypt, a rather worrying development. We also hear that, for example. through the country of Niger, 20 000 refugees travel every week on their way to Libya, and we hear that there are many who want to go to Europe. It's important for a government council to keep up with these things. I'm going to promise the Storting one thing, and that's that I'm going to follow the situation very closely forward, because it's quite right, as some of you said, that what was previously foreign policy and we might have looked at most like that, is now an important basis for which domestic policy we're going to conduct in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1470	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1473	I think it was very good that the representative of the Christian People's Party let the cat out of the bag at the end of the debate, that no one should prevent the Progress Party from voting in favour of politics we believe is absolutely necessary and important, but then it was not possible to talk to the other parties. What kind of democratic mindset it is, and how you can later claim that it was possible to achieve even more restraints – it is not a matter of intervention. Of course, we are voting in favour of the policy we think is necessary, but it cannot be that we should put aside the proposals we think are necessary, just in order to be able to talk to other parties. So it's okay that the Christian People's Party prepared that piece of it. In the end, it's strange to hear the representative Helga Pedersen talk about cash support, all the time the Workers' Party over eight years in a majority government didn't do anything about that arrangement itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1480	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1483	The last few rounds now we have witnessed what is at the heart of the problem: that here you are most concerned with yourself, your own party and what you've been doing at meetings here in the Stortingen, while what we're really discussing now is that very many people are in acute danger of life and refugees – in a situation where I think everyone sitting in this room would have done exactly the same thing – precisely because it's thanks to them, and because they want to save the lives of their kids. To resolve the situation is not to close Norway’s borders or to scare away as much as possible and to shift responsibility to others. It doesn't make the world safer. If we want to make the world safer, we need to be able to conclude international agreements that take care of human rights. We might also need them to sail one day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1488	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1502	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1516	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1523	The cause of the Storting is to deal with a number of major and minor legal and regulatory changes. Many people know the Storting well and come as a result of previous decisions, some of which are new. I'm going to do a little bit of good for the setting. Firstly, we follow in this case the budget decision of the Grand Duchy to increase the minimum pension level to single retirement pensioners by NOK 4000 from 1 September this year. This was the result of the budgetary agreement between the four cooperation parties last autumn. In the same budgetary round, it was decided to increase the basic pension for married and co-operative pensioners, and in this setting, the Committee asks the Stortinget to adopt the necessary amendments to the Law on Retired Pensions for members of the State Pension Fund, so that they correspond to the new rules of the Social Security Act. Then there's a new thing. The Ministry proposes to make changes to the State Pension Fund Act, which briefly states that if a member of the State Pension Fund, or another public service pension scheme, changes to a post within the SPK which has a lower age limit than the former post, a claim will be made that in the case of a member of the State Pension Fund, he must have at least three years of service in the new post before he is entitled to an old-age pension from the new, lower age limit. Until this requirement is met, the old age limit will be used as a basis for entitlement to an old age pension. The aim is to reduce the amount of post-employment-motivated late in working life. The Court of First Instance has essentially supported the proposal. That's what the committee does, but a minority also makes an additional suggestion to flip the rule, which I'm counting on them to do for themselves. In addition, it is proposed to amend the law on a pension scheme for nurses. The change ensures that service under pension conditions does not give entitlement to membership of the pension scheme. This will ensure that nurses are treated in the same way when it comes to retirement, by not shortening their old age pension. The proposal is modelled by the State pension fund and is supported by a consensual committee. A number of minor changes are also proposed in the law on popular protection. Most people have to say that they are of a technical nature, but there is reason to rejoice that it is proposed to make it easier to establish their own business without losing the right to a daily allowance. The period you can do is extended from nine to twelve months. In a time of increasing unemployment, not least in the West, this is a loving relaxation of the legislation, which facilitates more wise heads – and for the sake of the case hot hands – that go free, can take the chance of creating jobs for themselves and perhaps others as well. The proposal shall be supported by a consensus committee. However, a minority of the Committee would point out that the measure itself is not sufficient to reduce unemployment and convert the nation. In so far as the case-speaker may agree, Rome was, as it is known, not built in one day. Finally, there are a number of minor changes and creations in the respective law on the coordination of pension and social security benefits, the law on equal treatment management and the law on supplementary social benefits for persons with short butide in Norway. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and look forward to the debate – to the extent that there will be a major debate on these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1544	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, who has done a good job with the case and also explained the matter very well here today. It relates, on the one hand, to the follow-up to previous decisions on aggregation of pensions, and, on the other, to proposals for new legal provisions, to the extension of existing schemes and, on the other, to clarification of existing rules. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the Government's various proposals. This does not mean that we agree with everything, but where we disagree, the Storting has already taken the real decisions in relation to the budget for the current year. Since we have to live with today's large numbers, at least a little over a year, we therefore see no reason to re-fight decisions that have already been taken. However, in our remarks on today's case, we have referred to the position of the Labour Party during the budgetary procedure. In the case of adjustments at pension level, the Workers’ Party’s view was – and is – to spend 2.7 billion. kr to raise the pension for retired couples, regardless of the level of income, is the misuse of money in the current situation with lower oil revenues and increasing unemployment. Our option was to spend less and target money more. We would rather give priority to minimum performances, which the Right and the Advance Party were not prepared to do with anything. They're the ones who have the most difficulty. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party came to the rescue of the lone age pensioners with the minimum pension level during the negotiations in the Stortinget. The working party is happy about it, but other lonely ones with minimum performances were unfortunately forgotten. They're not getting anything. I would also like to make a comment on the proposal concerning those who switch from a job with a 70-year-old age to a job with, for example, a job. The 60-year age limit shortly before he reaches the age of 60. It is proposed to introduce a requirement to have been in the new post for three years in order to prevent post-employment adjustments that are motivated by retirement. The Labour Party supports it. The lower age limit is intended for those who have had a stressful job through much of their professional life. However, as the case shows, we have asked questions as to whether such a tightening should not at the same time have been followed up with a corresponding right for those who have to go the opposite way involuntarily shortly before retirement. It can be something as simple as changing the job code, without changing the nature of the work itself to a particular extent. The Council of State says that this is impossible without carrying out a complete review of the whole system of special age limits. We don't get that. When you can tighten up without going through the whole system, you also have to be able to let someone keep a special age limit without having to go through the whole system. We have therefore put forward a proposal that we are in agreement with the Swedish Government on which we are asking the government not to introduce this, but to consider this issue. Nursing staff must be able to work under retirement conditions. Actually, it's a little incomprehensible that they haven't been able to do it before, in line with other government employees. At the same time, we assume that this is not a requirement, but an opportunity, because for someone, depending on the individual's performance profile, can be an advantage to keep earnings in the time you actually work. In the end, a comment, not to the technical adjustment of the legal text in the case of supplementary social benefits, because it's too straightforward, but it's just cruel to see the enormous contrast there's between 2.7 billion. kr in pension funds and SEK 2,2 billion. the tax cuts to pensioners, whatever the level of income, and the unsolidar and simply discriminatory decision to take the whole of the small social benefits of those who have come here on family reunification. Not many people, just 500 people. The more incomprehensible. The motive may not have been to save money. Here's one example of how this unsocial cut frame, taken from the Hamar Worksheet of a man named Parviz, is 86 years old. He's lived in Norway for 23 years. He is a Norwegian citizen, and he has had supplementary social benefits for ten years, $14,000 per month – the corresponding minimum pension. During the night it was cut from NOK 14 000 to NOK 1500 per month. It is unworthy for the welfare state of Norway. It is discriminatory, heartbroken and unworthy, and there is blue-blue policy at its worst. I wish it was possible to get someone in this room to think about, so that we could make that decision. Finally, I would like to address our proposal, which we agree with SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1565	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1568	It's good to have engaged posts from the pulpit. This is a very good gathering from the government that helps to strengthen the line of work, but also continues to focus on work, activity and change. I'll draw out four things in particular. We have seen over time that more in the public sector are transferred to another position with a lower retirement age shortly before reaching retirement age. It has unfortunately been obvious that it is the low retirement age that is the main reason for the job change, and we in the Right can no longer sit still and look at it. The scheme leads to a serious breach of the working line and the intentions of the pension settlement and increases public expenditure unnecessarily. I am therefore very pleased that the government is cleaning up this. There are now fewer pension-motivated adjustments late in working life by the government introducing requirements for three years of service in a new position. The amendment that the minimum right limit for membership of the State pension fund was reduced to 20 p.m. caused unintended negative consequences for nurses who combined additional guards with retirement pensions. The consequence was that the old-age pension was curtailed against income, which is actually contrary to the intentions of the pension agreement, and resulted in a number of highly skilled and experienced nurses who stopped working. I am therefore very pleased that the government, in close cooperation with the Nursing Association, has found a good solution. After the amendment of the law, there will now be exceptions to the registration both for nurses who work on a regular salary of up to 20 p.m. position, and for nurses working on retirement pay. These exceptions may be combined if such an agreement is made with their employer. The government's bill shows that pensioners' wages are meant for work to a lesser extent than full employment. The pensioner’s salary today is NOK 191 per hour, regardless of the position you have, whether you are a doctor, a nurse or a cleaning worker. The third point I want to talk about is that you can now combine the daily allowance with starting your own business for a period of six months, a development period, and then we extend the start-up period from three months to six months. The right believes that the phase that is at the very start of the business has been too short, and we are therefore very pleased and satisfied that the government doubles this period. I'm absolutely sure it'll make it easier to start up, more people will try to start their own business, and more people will hopefully create the operating base for their own business. I want to work to make this solution even more used. In 2015, the background figures show that there were only a few hundred people using this great opportunity. The transformation that is now in the South-West, in Rogaland, in the Haugesund and Stavanger areas, makes it very easy for Nav to market this to its clients. I am also pleased that the government today is fulfilling one more of the concrete promises we have on the Sundvolden platform, because with effect from 1 September, there is now an increase in the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, which for each household will amount to NOK 8 000 per year. This is done simply in practice by increasing the percentage from 85 to 90 of the basic amount of the population. The same will also apply to those who receive AFP in the public sector. In addition, I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left is being followed up, so that single minimum pensioners get an increase of NOK 4000 per year. Of course, this is in addition to the tax relief for which the government has been given a majority in the Stortinget. There are a number of smaller adjustments that I think it's okay to make, and I want to give credit to the Council of State for having presented so many good things and had a good dialogue with the social partners, and not least with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1587	I'm glad that we have a government and a government council that shows the power of action and keeps coming up with issues that simplify the systems, reduce bureaucracy and not least are of great help to many individuals. I will not go into the details of the matter today, but take it a bit overall in a few areas. It's a joy we're dealing with here today, because it's a matter that makes sure the country's pensioners get a better and more proper pension. Most of the decisions we come to today are a direct follow-up to the 2016 budgetary procedure, where the government parties together with the Left and Christian People's Party chose to strengthen pensions for the most people. A debate we've had in the past, which I'll be brief about, is the unreasonable curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners has now had for many, many years. In the past, the abbreviation of 25 pst was known. So you got a cut in your basic pension of 25 pst. if you chose to have a fixed partner, either as a married person or as a cohabitant. Fortunately, the Progress Party together with the then Bondevik government reduced this abbreviation from 25 to 15 pst. The government was clear in its government platform that we want a further downsizing, and we have now delivered that, from 15 to 10 p.m., which means that married and cohabiting pensioners will now receive NOK 8 000 more per year. It's a good start. But I can't stop wondering when I see that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party still want to increase the curtailment, thereby reducing the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners by 8 000 kroner. I hope they can come back to that in the debate later today. Then there's another group that the government with our cooperation parties is now raising. That's the same minimum pensioner, which we're now adding up to, is going to increase the pension by $4,000 a year. I'm glad we got there, and it's also a recognition that it's often the lonely minimum pensioners who struggle most to get the ends to meet. Then I am glad that we have a government that – once again – shows that we choose to give priority to the funds to those who need it the most. So I'll just say a few words about supplementary social benefits and the contributions of the representative Lise Christoffersen. The part of progress is known to be adversaries of supplementary social benefits. We believe that it is highly unreasonable to have a separate regime for immigrants in practice. We believe that it should be equal to vestment, equal obligations and equal rights for all those living in Norway, and is against the special arrangements that the Workers' Party has fought through for many years. We believe that it is going to be wrong to get your own service and rights only on the basis of the fact that you are actually an immigrant.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1602	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job and a good presentation. The centre party shall join the committee's recommendation. I would like to comment on a few points. The introduction of a requirement for a minimum period of three years in a position of a lower age than a member of the State pension fund has previously had, before the pension right for the post can be obtained, we agree. There is a required change in order to reduce the amount of a pension-motivated job change. The second point is the pension level. Pensions are an important part of the distribution policy. One has to decide on the priority of scarce funds, one has to target the pension payments to those who need it the most. The Centre Party, like the Workers' Party and SV, has clearly prioritised the minimum pensioners. This is where the need is greatest, not least as a consequence of the real income reduction of those with the current basic regulation, which is minus 0,75 pst. It's a burden that is absolutely heavier to bear for those who only have the minimum pension. That is why we support what was in the budget for an increase in the minimum single retirement pension by NOK 4000 from 1 September 2016, and we will propose a further increase in the minimum pension for single old-age pensioners as part of the treatment of the revised budget now in 2016. The centre party has always stood up to avoid reducing the curtailment in the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners. The explanation is very simple, and is an explanation that the Progress Party fails to tell us about: When one is one, a seafaringly larger fixed cost as a pensioner than when one is two. That's the basis for the priority we're doing. One must always give little priority to where the need is greater. When you have little money, like what we have, a priority must be stronger than the Advance Party, which obviously has more money to spend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1613	The current legislative proposal covers a number of changes in the law in the area of public health protection in the case of public service pensions. The proposal also includes some minor adjustments and legislative updates in several other laws. An increase in the age pension of the least-favoured pensioners is an important and targeted measure. With the proposal that has now been promoted, we will have the necessary legislative changes in place to implement the Stortinge decision in the context of the 2016 State Budget that, from 1 September of this year, single age pensioners will increase the minimum pension level by NOK 4000. The legislative proposal also includes a necessary amendment to the Law on Retired Pensions for members of the State Pension Fund, which ensures that the relevant AFP pensioners are also included in the already adopted increase in the basic pension for married and cohabiting persons. It is important for the government that the legislation of the State pension fund is designed in such a way that it does not motivate workers to make unfortunate and pensionable adjustments by changing from a job with the general age limit of 70 to a job with the special age limit late in working life. I am therefore pleased that the government has agreed to a concrete measure in this context, in order to reduce the possibility of such unfortunate adaptation. The proposal implies the introduction of a three-year service requirement in the new post before the existence of pension law. I would like to stress that the proposal does not affect other aspects of the special age limits. Furthermore, changes to the pension scheme for nurses have been proposed in order to facilitate that retired nurses serving on so-called pensioner conditions do not receive a curtailment of the old-age pension. A pension scheme has a long tradition in the state sector, and subsequently also in the municipal sector. It is reasonable, in the government's view, that nurses who still want a certain degree of professional participation are also given the same opportunity. It is assumed that the pension scheme must be similar to that in the State sector and in the CS area. In particular, remuneration must be paid at a specified rate. In the last year, the labour market has deteriorated and unemployment has increased. The increase in unemployment is primarily due to a decrease in labour demand, as a result of a decrease in oil investment. This spring, the government has proposed several changes to the day-to-day pay legislation that will make it easier to combine day-to-day pay with education. In addition, we are now proposing that access to the daily allowance during the establishment of their own business be extended from today's nine months to twelve months, because many of those who now lose their jobs in oil-related businesses have an education and experience that suggests that they have good opportunities to set up successful businesses on their own. The legislative proposal includes – as the rapporteur was also concerned – some other minor adjustments and updates in the Swedish Social Security Act, the Coordination Act, the Equation Act and the Supplementary Social Welfare Act. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the Committee's agreement with the legislative proposals that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1632	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1635	It was the intervention of the representative Lundtigen that made me redraw, when Lundtigen defended the Central Party's desire to cut the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners and used, among other things. the argument that it is often more reasonable to be two than one. Yes, that may be true in many cases, but I will challenge the representative Lundtigen: if there is to be a consistent line in the argument, that means that the Senter party wants to introduce a curtailment of sick pay and daily allowances for those who are married and cohabiting, because it will still be that if you receive daily allowances or sick pay and are married or cohabited, the costs will still be lower. I hope the representative Lundteg can get in on that. But I think this example is quite illustrative for the debate and shows the difference between the view of the Progress Party on pensions and the view of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. The Progress Party regards pensions as something that you have earned through a long professional life: you have paid taxes, you have paid social security contributions. While the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party view retirement as a benefit you get from the State, because the State is kind to you. There are two widely differing views, and it is also likely to form the basis for, among other things, The center party is willing to cut the pension to use it for other good purposes. It is a vision in which the Progress Party strongly disagrees. But I hope to get an answer from the Center Party as to whether it might be relevant for them to introduce a curtailment of medical money and daily allowance. I also want an answer as to whether it is relevant for the Central Party and the Workers' Party to reinstate 15 pst. curtailment if they were ever to come back to government. In that case, it will mean that the country's pensioners have significantly cut the pension pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1645	Just a few comments on direct questions: in the case of supplementary social benefits, the representative Wiborg is liberating honestly when he says that it is wrong for the people covered by that scheme to have their own rights, because in practice they are immigrants. There is a scheme that applies to everyone with a short period of residence in Norway. I mentioned an example of a Norwegian citizen aged 86 who has lived here in the country for 23 years. According to the Progress Party, he is primarily an immigrant who has not earned anything. For the Workers' Party, he's a Northman as good as anyone else. The representative Wiborg has developed into his trademark to interpret the politics of other parties and twist and twist it so that it fits into his reality. He is still drawing the claim that the Workers' Party will cut the pension for couples with NOK 8 000. I want to ask the representative Wiborg to tell me where it says it. We voted against a proposal to increase. That's not the same thing as cutting. And when I get questions about the Workers' Party will change it when we get to power again, it's a little hard for me to predict what the party is going to mean, but if I'm going to predict the future, I'll say, no, of course we don't. When the Workers' Party is about to redeploy money in this community, we go in completely different pockets than exactly the retirement pockets. Then we follow income groups rather than social status, and we try to get a redistribution from those who have a lot to those who have little. There's a good deal to fix after four years of blue-blue government. As far as our social security systems are concerned, it is not only the position of the Workers' Party that Wiborg turns and turns on, because he makes it in a way that pensioners have always had a cut in their basic pensions. Pensioners have received a basic pension equal to the agreed rate adopted by the Stortinget. That's not the same thing as getting a cut, because you've decided that lonely people needed a little bit more. In my time as rapporteur in Drammen, I had an alternate rapporteur who had remuneration equal to 20 pst. of my remuneration as rapporteur. I never heard that he complained that he had got a cut of 80 pst. in the remuneration he received as vice-president. I want to address a little bit more, that is, with supplementary social benefits, and that it's so unfair because people don't get something they don't deserve: what was really revolutionary about popular security was that one at retirement set up a system where everyone, including those who didn't pay anything, got their own money at age 67.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1656	It might be called a big commitment when a try to be clear and call a spade for a spade instead of a digging tool. There's nothing very special about married and cohabiting pensioners other than trying to explain a clear point of view and a principle. I think the representative of Wiborg should stop talking about, as also the representative of Christoffersen was about, that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party cut pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners. We don't cut pensions, we have a system where we say it's going to be a different rate, and we don't go in to increase pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners as much as the Progress Party does. We stand by that, and that's our priority. The representative Wiborg asked me if that's how the Center Party also goes in to cut in cash and sick money related to the situations that people come into, if they're cohabiting versus lonely. That's not what we're going to talk about, because the daily allowance and sick pay are linked to the individual's participation in the world of work. That's the way it has to be. It can't be that the individual's participation in work, where we have daily allowances and sick pay to compensate for the decline in income and well-being that a person gets in those situations, is related to marital status. What the Progress Party says is that pensions are something you've earned in a long working life. I thought the Progress Party soon started to stop coming with that record. We had an exchange of lines here a short time ago with the representative Rotevatn who made a very clear settlement with the Progress Party at that point. It is quite clear that benefits over public security are benefits over the state budget. That's how it is. I think the Progress Party should stop spreading errors about how the popular fear works. Social security is not a payment related to what the individual has paid. There is an assessment by Stortinget on how the benefits should be and is completely different from the system for daily and sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1672	I can actually be quite shortly after the end of the speech by the representative Lundtigen, because I also heard the representative Wiborg describe it as if Norway had a deposit-based public security system. We don't. If people were to get back the money they paid into taxes, a lot of people with low income would get very bad out of retirement. One should be afraid of the pension model of Wiborg if he introduces the one he claims we have. In particular, those with the minimum pension, which one can obtain without having income, will come out of such a system very badly. I thought only in all kindness to show that, in connection with a discussion here earlier this week on popular and social security and the presentation of it, Sveinung Rotevatn had a very good and short first aid course in the Norwegian pension system, which I recommend Wiborg to go into and read in the Stortinget's minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1679	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1693	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1698	Prop. 124 L for 2015–2016 is an answer to the demands of LO and NHO in the annual salary settlement, where the parties were not only concerned with salary supplements but also showed a high level of social responsibility by requiring an extension of the length of leave for an employee. The change takes place for those enterprises which experience a decline in activity but which, at the same time, have the prospect of new jobs in the future, jobs which depend on the company retaining professional competence and the workforce. The proposition is an example of the Norwegian model, which is important for both employers and employees, by employing a well-known tool when unemployment increases: the company’s access to permitting is extended to demanding times. Business is served, and it helps to secure workers – workers who can at the same time spend time updating their skills to be even better equipped to work when new jobs come. Therefore, it is a unanimous committee that supports the extension of the period of an employee to 52 weeks. The Committee has examined the matter expeditiously so that the provision can enter into force as from 1 July of this year. That's important because we have the highest unemployment rate of 23 years, and many companies will have to cancel employees if the law is not amended. But here the consensus ends in the committee. Increased access to permitting and shorter employer periods was last used by the government of Stoltenberg during the financial crisis, even though the unemployment rate was at a lower level and not as geographically concentrated as it is today. When the employment situation improved at the time, we reduced the length of the leave. This is the way the system works, in line with the challenges that are on the labour market at all times. Now there are a lot of companies that are struggling. The assignments are gone and the revenue disappears. The Workers' Party believes that it is wrong to burden the companies with a new employer's period after 30 weeks. We think that Norwegian employers and employees are better off than they are going to leave to permit. Permits have been used as an instrument in Norway for many decades, and the State budget has stated that 90pst. come back to work after a period of leave. As a hand bill to these companies and their employees, we believe that there is reason to facilitate the ownership of the companies in the event of a permit. Therefore, we propose to reduce the number of days that businesses have to pay before the employee receives benefits from social security to five days. Similarly, the Workers' Party believes that it is right to accept partial lay-offs of 40 p.m., so that the companies can adapt their crew and duties better. Summary: The Labour Party supports the proposal to extend the number of weeks one employee may be on leave to 52 weeks, as we already proposed in our alternative state budget for 2016. We also proposed to reduce the employer’s period to five days and to accept partial leave of 40 pst. We are repeating these proposals today, and they are also backed up by our draft revised state budget for 2016. In addition, we are opposed to applying a new employer period after 30 weeks. As we said, we have confidence in the employers and believe it is wrong to impose a new, increased cost, as the situation is now. A new employer period will also be bureaucratic. Our proposals mean over 100 million. kr in small costs to enterprises – enterprises that are struggling. We believe that this is a proper use of money in a situation where we have over 130 000 unemployed. The Labour Party will therefore vote against the third paragraph of Section 3 today. I would also like to comment on our proposals, which say that the law of leave is to be amended, so that the employer's period is set at five days, and that the entry conditions of the law of social security are reduced in such a way as to be entitled to a daily allowance if the working time is reduced by at least 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1717	The representative of Aasrud has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1720	This is a good day for Norwegian working life. The government has now received a majority for the extended number of days of leave to 52 weeks. It is good news for businesses that meet a challenging market with uncertainty about future assignments. Permitting employees who are temporarily relieved of their obligations to work with the employer and who are similarly relieved of their obligations to pay them gives enterprises the opportunity to retain the labour they might need when the market has either turned around, come back, or the enterprises change to new markets. The permitting mechanism is in practice a splinter layer between the employee, the enterprise and the country. The employee goes over to a daily allowance paid by the State. The company must pay the salary for the first 10 days. Then the employee goes over to a daily allowance of up to 30 weeks, as it is today. In this proposition, the government proposes to extend the permit scheme for a further 19 weeks, but that the company should then be subject to a five-day pay obligation. It's a pretty straightforward deal in our view, when you get 19 weeks longer leave after that. Overall, there is an opportunity to permit employees for an entire year. This will give jobs to a number of companies. It's my hope that companies that in recent months have resigned people can now withdraw some of these cancellations again and replace them with a permit. This applies in particular to holdings in the petro-maritime environment in the South-West, in Haugesund, Stavanger and Rogaland. Statistics show that the vast majority of people who end up being permitted are doing well. Some alerts are withdrawn before the permit is actually issued, and sometimes people come back from the permit before the end of the period. This shows that the legislation works as intended. At the same time, there are some challenges because this time the transition is most likely to be more sustainable. It is important that the business community and employees, together with the social partners, follow closely the development, because the day-to-day money law works in such a way that you can get a maximum of two years – including the time you are on leave, so it does not come in addition. However, if one at the end of one year of leave ends up being laid off, it is in a challenging situation, not only because one has only one year left of the daily allowance, but because one has meanwhile been one year out of work. This is important to be aware of those who are being permitted. One of the things the government has done is to make it easier to combine the time that is allowed to take education, to complete education and to continue training. Those who have started education before they are released can complete it without losing their daily allowance. This is a very good arrangement that I recommend to the authorized person to make use of. Education is often the safest way back to work. There are demanding times for large parts of Norwegian business, but there are also good news, as we got today. In my home municipality, Haugesund, we had among the country’s highest unemployment rates – 6.3 pst. – at the beginning of 2016. At the end of May – only a few days ago – it has now been reduced from 6.3 to 4.4 pst. It gives great faith that the government's work is beginning to bear fruit, that the investment in work, activity and conversion is working, and the revised state budget provided further good measures that are particularly beneficial to South West and Rogaland. I will give tribute to the social partners who once again arranged a moderate and relatively noise-free wage settlement. This, together with a very good government budget, very well audited budget, Norway's low interest rate, low inflation and a krone rate that is good for export-oriented Norwegian business, will contribute positively in the future. Shortly after the front courses were in port, the government responded by agreeing to the parties' wish for an extended period of leave of up to 52 weeks. Until then, there was a disparate perception of the laws of the social partners. But the fact that the NHO/LO sent joint letters to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs shows once again that tripartite cooperation works. I am pleased that the government is very much in agreement with the proposal, not only in the Stortinget today, but in many parts of Norwegian business, trade unions and employers' associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1739	New data on unemployment show large regional differences. There are also major differences between industries. The increase in unemployment measured by the number of persons and as a percentage since the same time last year is greatest in Rogaland, Hordaland and More and Romesdal. My own county, East-Agder, is also struggling with leave. Many of our businesses are - let me say so - oil-related. The increase has been highest in the field of engineering and ICT and industrial work, which are also typical petroleum-related jobs. We also have fresh numbers that show that it's 73 pst. more fully licensed than at the same time last year. Luckily, we also see that the amount of permits has been slightly reduced in recent months, measured against the same month one year ago. Part of the economy is in a demanding period and there is a clear need for change and structural change. Some jobs disappear because there is little demand, while others have brighter prospects a little further in time. It is then important that the management of the various companies work to gain new jobs. In the course of the year’s salary settlement, the parties from the organisations addressed themselves to the Prime Minister and requested that changes to the permit regime be made. That is what we have chosen to meet, and we are therefore discussing today a new model of daily allowance during the period of leave. Day payments under leave are an instrument to help businesses and workers through a temporary period of demand disruption and lack of jobs. Here it's important to remember what permitting is going to do. It shall provide enterprises with the opportunity to keep good employees at a time of low mission. At the same time, permitting must not help to prevent necessary conversion. Or to put it another way: it's great if employees can work again when the jobs come in. But it must not be that those who are on leave lose time to search for a new job if they are not needed in their old one. There have been many examples of well-educated, qualified people being detained in companies in bad times, believing that things would get better. Where it has not improved, they queue quite far behind to get a new job, and perhaps there is no new job to get hold of when they go out. This is going to be wrong. The permit regime will be extended to 52 weeks. It is a good measure for the employees who will have the opportunity to return to their own job again. At the same time, the changes we are dealing with today will improve the permitting legislation. We get a new period of pay for five days after the end of the 30-week daily allowance period. It will give employers a fairer burden when assessing leave versus notices. Then the day-payment period will be extended by 19 weeks. The pay or daily allowance period is thus increased by 20 weeks. All in all, today's case is a good and balanced package. The best thing would have been for companies not to leave, but sometimes it may be both necessary and right, and then the rules have to take account of labour market mobility. It is also important that employers make a realistic assessment of whether they are receiving new jobs, and therefore whether they need to keep their employees. Increased payments by employers will contribute to this. In short, what we all want is that people either come back to their old job or they try to get into a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1758	It was important that the wage settlement between LO and NHO was dropped into port, and it was important that it was the front line that was at the top. It was then also natural that when the government was asked to change the law of the lay-off, he put himself in favour of it. It's an example of a tripartite collaboration that has a long tradition, which was not least practiced under the red-green government, and which we now have experience of being continued under the blue government. It is important that the parties to the wage settlement take responsibility, that they take a great deal of responsibility. I would also like to highlight one thing, and it is that we are lucky to have a Technical Calculation Committee, which provides a solid number material for the negotiations for the calendar year 2016, which is to the best of our knowledge. This helps to make a very small difference between demands and offers in the settlements, as opposed to, among other things. that one has in agriculture where one does not have an equivalent material. I would say that the government councils in question should look at, for some reason that we have neat and proper conditions in the wage settlement between the LO and the NHO, is that we have a technical calculation committee that does the job, as the tradition is, to obtain figures for 2016. We have nothing similar in agriculture because the negotiations take place for the calendar year 2017, and for 2017 the Budget has no other figures than the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance on wage and cost growth. This was just to draw a parallel. The party advised the government in good time before the wage settlement to extend the daily allowance by leave to 52 weeks. I'm glad that a joint committee says, ‘The Committee considers that it is important that the rules on leave operate in such a way as to ensure that the extension of leave time is used only when the unemployment rate is high.’ So you have a pragmatic view of this, and you use it as an extraordinary tool to correct major imbalances in the world of work. The central party supports the proposal to extend the scheme to 52 weeks, and we support the Committee's recommendation on the matter. There has been some discussion here about the question of increasing the employer’s period from 10 to 15 days in case of leave beyond 3 weeks. We do not agree with that, because we believe that what the government has presented is a balanced solution between the state, the employer and the employee. Such a balanced solution, which takes care of everyone's whole interests, has our support within a scarce economic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1776	The proposal under consideration today meets the wishes of the parties to the front line on changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay during the period of leave in the course of the year’s wage settlement. The Norwegian economy is in a demanding period with a significant need for conversion. Many enterprises are affected and not just enterprises directly linked to oil production. There are currently considerable differences in the unemployment situation, for example: geographically and by which occupational groups are particularly affected. The proposal will allow enterprises facing temporary non-demand problems to maintain skilled labour. The new days of compulsory pay will stimulate enterprises to make a new and thorough assessment of the need to permit. The government proposes to introduce a new five-day pay period for employers, which takes place after 30 weeks of daily pay. At the same time, we propose to extend the period during which employers are exempted from pay, for a further 19 weeks after these five days of compulsory pay. Permitted workers receive an equivalent extended entitlement to daily allowance during leave. The period of pay or daily allowance during the period of leave is thus increased by 20 weeks. The total pay or daily allowance period in a continuous leave will be 52 weeks, consisting of a total of 3 weeks of leave and 49 weeks of daily pay. I note – and it is also mentioned from the Chair – that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party are critical that the government proposes to increase the employer's period from 10 to 15 days in case of leave over 30 weeks, and that the same members are critical of not opening up partial leave by 40 pst. Opening up for partial leave of 40 pst. The changes in the Permitting Wage Act, which we are dealing with here today, do not apply, but the entry conditions for the right to a daily allowance. The 50 pst requirement. the reduction of working time for entitlement to daily allowances applies to all completely unemployed and on leave. Such a proposal will provide leavers who have a job to return to, easier access to daily allowances than those who are completely unemployed. The proposal, we believe, would discriminate unfairly between the lay-offs and the unemployed for whom there is no well-being justification. Permitting legislation shall balance the needs of enterprises for flexibility with the needs of society for effective labour exploitation. Day payments under leave also have a government financial side that one should take into account when designing the legislation. The government’s assessment is that the amendments proposed in the legislation on permitting are carefully balancing these considerations. The changes make it possible for those companies that are now experiencing a breakdown, but at the same time have brighter prospects in time, to avoid the need to terminate valuable competences. In the interests of labour market mobility, it is important that employers carefully assess the need to keep the workforce. Increased payments by employers during the period of leave may contribute to this. The government is following closely the evolution in the number of lay-offs and will brief the State on the situation, among other things. in the budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1796	In no way can 130000 unemployed be said to be an effective exploitation of the labour force. When we see companies that are struggling, that are experiencing a breakdown, but nevertheless see a light in the tunnel as the Council of State describes it, does not the Council of State see that it is quite demanding for those companies to get an additional employer period into a leave course? Does the Council of State think that it will strengthen the company's ability to survive in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1801	I think most people would think it's a pretty good arrangement for the government to take over the payroll for 49 weeks. We are committed to helping those companies that have opportunities for the future and have hopes there, but we are also concerned with balancing different concerns, namely the need for those who need to keep labour and have faith in the future and opportunities in the future, with regard to the companies that are now experiencing a great need to recruit new people. Then we believe that the proposal we have put forward balances the considerations – both the needs of those who need people because they need to expand and expand, and the needs of the companies that are struggling but who see light in the tunnel ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1807	What the Council of State now says is to suspect the companies that are actually using the permit scheme. I don't think any companies will permit employees if they don't see that light in the tunnel. Once you have experienced a breakdown and the revenue is lost, I must say that applying the increased costs to the companies is not a reasonable solution to keep the wheels running. Does the Council of State think that companies would abuse such a system of permissiveness if they did not have the stop that the Council of State has put in, which is going to burden businesses quite a lot in terms of the economy in a situation where incomes are gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1814	No, I have no reason to suspect the companies for that. I have to assume that the companies take good, wise and correct choices. But what we've been trying to discuss in the last few months is just how we're going to take into account the different needs of businesses. We now see, for example: that companies only in the Nordic countries say they need 2,850 more employees. In Troms they need 1,400 new employees. 21 pst. by the establishments in Troms, they report the need to employ more people. At a time when businesses and parts of the country are in desperate need of labour, we also need to look at how best to ensure that the businesses that need people are able to access those people, while, of course, we also need to meet the needs of the companies that are struggling but who know that they will get contracts in the near future. And that's the reasons we've needed to evaluate, and we think we've laid the foundation here. The representative started with the fact that 130,000 unemployed people are not effective people. No, that's not it. We are concerned that they should be communicated to the job vacancies that are, around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1821	Before the government has now entered to extend this period of leave, the government has argued strongly against it. It has claimed that this will have a locking effect and prevent mobility. So now you're going to go in to extend the perimeter. Does the Council of State still believe that being on leave has a locking effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1828	As I said in my answers to the previous replicator, there are some dilemmas now. In 2009, when there was a complete stop in all industries across the country, it was easier to use the law of the permit, because it could be said that there was a temporary stop in production around the country, but now that is not the reality. The reality now is that there are full stops in parts of the country, and that there is full activity in other parts of the country. What is important to us then is that we do not lock up the skills that – you might say – are released in some industries, if they are requested in other industries. I hope we can agree on that: that we have to make sure that the companies that need competence to expand and to grow have access to it. That is why I have also said that what we are now proposing is that companies should put a foot in the ground, perhaps also contribute to the fact that the companies that see light in the tunnel and know they are getting contracts, will be able to use the permitting legislation, while the others, who may find that they have no options, are making a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1833	I still understand that the government believes this has a locking effect, and yet they choose to extend the period. That's what we from the Workers' Party think is a pleasure. As a result, we have the Norwegian model, which works quite well, at the request of the parties to the payroll. Then I really just want to ask the simple question: Was the Council of State happy with the letter from the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1840	In terms of locking power: we believe that we have found a way to reduce the risk of this by the fact that the companies now have to put a foot in the ground after 30 weeks before they permit again, but this is not an exact science. Now we're going to see how this system works. I am very concerned about the tripartite cooperation. For us, it was important to avoid a devastating strike in the front. We were busy helping to avoid that strike. That's what the party asked for. In a tripartite cooperation, everyone has to give and take, and this was what the state chose to give to avoid a devastating strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1845	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1861	The issue we are now discussing concerns four changes to the electoral law. This applies to electronic check-ups in the number of polls on election day, time limits to ensure that the votes submitted are counted, language clarification in the exemption legislation to receive the election and change of the rules of voting by roll-call vote. That's especially the last point I would suggest has the most political interest, but since, after all, it's legal changes that are involved, it's not unreasonable to also give an input to the legal provisions that are contained in the proposition, which are unanimous from the committee. First of all, electronic check-out in the number of polls on the election day. The tests with electronic check-ups in the polling number on the election day have been carried out in the last three elections. An overall committee has noticed that none of the municipalities participating in the experiment now want to return to the number of paper crews. The Committee would also like to contribute to the introduction of electronic check-out in the mandate on the election day, so that municipalities can also receive foreign votes as a permanent voluntary scheme for all municipalities. It should be emphasised that municipalities that choose to use electronic check-ups in the population on the election day must ensure that this is implemented in all the polling rooms in the municipality. We expect that such a wide range of electronic check-ups will lead to more effective selection resolution in the actual selection room during the census, and that the electronic check-out in the census will also reduce the number of error checks, as the electorate will largely use the bar code on the election card to search for the voters. Therefore, it is likely that the municipal election board will also have less to do as a result of complaints in retrospect. An overall committee is aware that an effect of the scheme is that ballots from voters who are formally cast into other circles may have an effect on the reading of the results of the circuit from which it is reported, but that it would be right if you were to take an interest in voting. For the most downgraded election statisticians, this will come as a slight disturbance into the picture. However, the Committee has found it possible to live with this imperfection. The second amendment re-enters the time limit for the advance votes received. In order to ensure that advance votes cast on ballots within specified time limits are counted in the electoral procedure of the local election, proposals are made to move the time for the approval of the pre-voting ballots from the election day at 9.00 p.m. 2l to Tuesday after election time. 17. As a consequence of the proposal, proposals are also made to shift the deadline for applying for inclusion in the population. The third element is a purely linguistic clarification and applies to rules on exemptions from municipal government and county council elections. Today, the election law requires the county election board and the electoral board to: ‘inform the elected representatives and alternates of the choice and indicate the right to apply for an exemption from elections’. Since the right to apply for an exemption from the choice after one has been chosen has been lost, the provision does not make sense. As the good legislators we are, we take out such nullities of the law. What has the greatest political and principleal interest today in this matter is personal choice in decision-making. These rules have remained unchanged in our Constitution since 1921. The Committee on Elections, which delivered NOU 2001: 3, has recommended that the election influence in the selection of candidates should be significantly increased to the roll-out. Another organisation following the election resolution, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, which usually does not have the least to note either to our democracy or the way in which we make elections, has, in the context of the last two decisions, noted the formal admission of voters to influence the order of candidates. In reality, this does not happen, and they recommend either removing this access or making it real, just to not imagine that they have the opportunity to influence the candidate order when they actually don't have it. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Workers’ Party, who will certainly justify their own views, agree with the Ministry’s proposal and the OSCE’s assessment that there is a democratic problem of the existence of a personal election system on paper which is not relevant in practice. The Institute for Societal Research has carried out analyses indicating that personal choice could become more important in decision-making than in state elections, and that most parties will be able to experience candidates being replaced in relation to the nomination committee or nomination meeting. Of course, it is assumed that this possibility will result in multiple voters correcting the ballots and voting to the candidates. We must not be blind to the possibility of unintended effects in the form of stronger person-focused campaigns, and that the parties will be able to experience that it is a nuisance for individual representatives to be more concerned with highlighting their own candidacy rather than what the parties will do for the country, and perhaps at the expense of others. But there we have confidence that the parties will be able to develop good ethical and other guidelines for this. Another question is whether the scheme may premise controversial candidates, as those who are enthusiastic about controversial points of view will be able to support the persons who present them, while those who are annoyed by exactly the same points of view will not be given an equivalent right of eradicating. Here it could be some kind of asymmetry. There's something you can think about in these Trump times, without following that parallel too far. It can also be recognised – and it may be a more real problem, some of which will recognise from the municipal election campaigns – that organised campaigns could have an unreasonable impact on the personal order of a system of fully equalised representation. It points out that by simultaneously imposing a barrier limit of 8 pst. by the number of votes of the party as a threshold for allowing this personal candidate settlement to count, what is considered to be a satisfactory barrier to the excessive impact of some very few and well-organised voters. The Rokkan Centre’s examination of electoral motivation by voting in municipal and county elections both in 2003 and 2007 suggests that voters vote largely for candidates based on political profile and other characteristics such as experience and competence, and that they place less emphasis on social factors such as gender, age or ethnic background. It is a good thing with a liberal basic view that the characteristics of each candidate become more important than the statistical group to which they can be attributed. Whatever you think the impact of this is going to be, the fundamental question here today is what the Storting must decide, whether or not the voters appear to have a greater impact on the people who will represent them. Here the committee has divided, so that it's funny enough now that the Right is behind the government's position alone, but with the company of the Left. These two batches want increased selectivity with the technical solutions proposed by the government in the proposition. The majority – which consists of both those who do not want change and those who will be allowed to increase their influence but have other solutions – will, of course, be able to elaborate on it. The right and left want a system where the voters can give candidates on the ballot one vote and to as many candidates as they want. Similarly, a candidate, or more if so, must have received a voice from at least 8 pst. of the votes cast in favour of the party to which the vote has been cast, in order to take account of it. Also, the lots retain a reasonable influence by the fact that there are lots which decide which candidates are put on the printed list which are ready to be used by the voters in the ballot boxes. With this, I will address what has now become the minority proposal of the Committee, and which is behind the Right and Left. If it should fall, the Right will consider voting for the Senter Party's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1904	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1907	There are many of the points of view put forward by the rapporteur, to which I agree. I am quite sure that we can agree that democracy rests on the commitment of the people and voters to society in all ways. Consciousness and commitment to all questions and conflicts are good, and a prerequisite for living democracy. Participation and commitment in elections are a basis for strong democracy. We must all be vigilant at this point – and we are all. The working party is – earlier and now. The opinion of the voters of the party and our policy is of the utmost importance. The issue we are dealing with in the United Kingdom today concerns an important area in our political system, namely the balance between the influence of voters and parties on who will represent them in our elected assemblies. As many people know, and as the rapporteur said quite correctly, there has been a discussion that has been going on for a long time, well back to 2002, about the so-called electoral committee and its setting. It has also been discussed in Stortinget on several occasions, but has therefore been rejected as is currently the case. I say it this way: the parties together with the voters are the bearers of democracy. The lots carry out good nomination processes for the staging choice. For all lots, there are long and circumstantial processes concerning the personal qualifications, gender, professional background, age and, in particular, geography of candidates. A balance is created between all these considerations in the nominations of the parties. As the government's bill now exists, it will to some extent weaken the ability of the parties to create and maintain such a balance. Rightly, as the rapporteur said, and as indicated in the documents, a limit of 8 pst is inserted. before exercising the influence of the voters on the lists. But in many cases, and for all lots, this represents a situation in which those whom the lot considers to be best qualified can be replaced by others or set aside. What we have to deal with, and what comes out of the good proposition -- I'll say -- that is present in explaining what this means, is that a relatively small proportion, i.e. 8 pst. by the voters, in which case the vast majority may be exceeded. It will, in addition to the developments we can get from the fact that individual candidates will emphasize themselves more than they highlight the party and the party's policy, change the culture of the parties and Norwegian political culture on several points. In fact, a small minority may override a majority, and this minority may, through activistic activities, on a geographical or other basis, distort the balance of the parties' nomination processes. But it's a big one, but here, because the voters' opinions and preferences are very important – which the Workers' Party also believes. The setting contains two other suggestions, from the SV and from the Christian People's Party, which will give electoral influence, but with a balance point that is something different from what the government proposes. As it emerges, the Central Party proposes that the government be given the task of examining these proposals in combination with the government's proposals as they exist. In combination with – I underline it. The working party's group is of the opinion that the balance sheet is good as it is today. That is our primary position. However, like the rapporteur, the Labour Party will vote on this basis in a subsidiary vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. Otherwise, the Labour Party joins the rapporteur in presenting the other proposals in the vote, and we vote in favour of them as they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1926	The President will make it clear that the proposal taken up by the President is promoted by the Right, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1929	The Government's proposal to amend the electoral law relating to the election of persons for the Grand Duchy raises fundamental questions where one has to assess the confidence of the democratic process in the parties by setting up the lists against the right voters to roll over the lists in the event of a roll-out. The Progress Party agrees that today's arrangement is only a theoretical possibility, as it is assumed that 50 pst. by the voters of the lot concerned, the same member must vote in an additional way before it is required to count in the election. Such a cut-off limit of 50 pst. has not been reached before and it is not considered realistic that it will be reached either. Nevertheless, a principle might be that it is democratic that there must be a majority in place to override the decision of the nomination meeting. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, has also pointed out that a barrier limit of 50 pst. in the event of a wholesale choice, the voters do not, in effect, provide an opportunity to influence who is involved in a wholesale choice, and advises Norway either to give the voters real opportunity or to remove the possibility of correcting the electoral lists completely. The progress party agrees that the time has come to do something about this relationship. The Government's proposal to amend the rules on voting rights in the event of a roll-call vote is a request decision of the Stortinget on 14 June 2012, which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for further changes to the electoral system to allow voters to influence the order of candidates for the parties, taking into account the possibility for the parties to ensure the influence of the candidates selected. The majority calls for such a decision-making reform to be implemented in order to allow the possible new electoral system to be introduced in the 2017 decision-making process.’ The request decision has provided guidance, as stated in the decision, to ensure the ability of the lots to ensure the influence of the candidates selected. The Party considers that the proposal presented does not adequately balance the consideration of the parties' ability to prioritise between the candidates on the one hand and the direct influence of the voters in the election on the other. As I said at the outset, one has to assess the confidence of the democratic process in the parties by setting up the lists against the right voters to be able to roll over on the list by roll-out. The parties' nomination process has been initiated through democratic decision-making processes, where the parties choose the nomination committee themselves, and this committee carries out laborious work over time, where one takes the aim of drawing up a list representative of geography, sex, age, professional background, suitability, etc. The lists drawn up have usually been rounded between the nomination committee and the party teams of the county before being presented to the nomination meeting itself, where it is set out as the list of county elections. Lowering the lock limit by 8 pst., as in the case of filling, will undoubtedly strengthen the choice of voters' access to influence the order of who is elected to the Storting from the particular batch. Without simultaneous action to ensure the influence of the parties on the candidates selected, the proposal appears to be somewhat unbalanced. The party of progress sees that with a unilateral reduction of the barrier limit to 8 pst. facilitates the preference of so-called known persons with little connection to the party rather than those with good knowledge of the general policy of the party and who are well motivated for the task of representing the party in terms of size. Similarly, it facilitates the initiation of actions to rearrange the order, for example: to change the composition against concentration on a geographical area, human groups, sex, etc. It can be discussed here whether democracy is safeguarded by a minority of the party's 8 pst voters. shall be able to flip the lot's own list to the choice. Such a scheme facilitates that the choice of individuals can become more a choice of individuals than a party choice, for which we in Norway have the tradition. A lowering of the barrier limit as far down as 8 pst. should be discussed in greater detail, as should a combination of barrier limit and some form of cumulation, such as one. is in municipal elections today. The Progress Party cannot endorse the proposal to lower the barrier limit for personal choice from 50 pst. to 8 p.m., but the Progress Party will subsidly support the proposal of the Centre Party. The Government's proposal for amendments to the electoral law also concerns electronic check-ups in the number of votes on election day, the transfer of the deadline for the approval of pre-voting votes from election day to day after election day at noon. 17 and clarification of the rules on exemptions in municipal and county elections. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the proposals on these points, and I refer you to the rapporteur's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1960	The opposition proposes four amendments to the electoral law, which have already been thoroughly explained by the rapporteur. The Christian People's Party supports everyone except for proposals to change the rules on voting rights. The background to the government's proposal is to be able to give voters greater influence over whom to choose by decision than the current system provides. The Christian People's Party itself contributed to making proposals in the previous period to introduce a system of cumulation with a barrier limit of at least 8 pst. of the total number of votes in the list in order to enable the decision-making process to take greater account of the votes cast. The Christian People’s Party is also aware that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the context of election observations in Norway in both 2009 and 2013 has criticised the Norwegian electoral system because it gives voters the impression of being able to influence, while in reality they have not been able to do so. The OSCE has therefore recommended that Norway amend the rules either by providing voters with a real opportunity to influence or remove corrections that are not of practical importance. Model driving undertaken by the Institute for Social Research indicates that personal choice could become more important in decision-making than in county elections, and that most parties would then be able to experience candidates being replaced. Because there has been a historically higher attendance in major elections than in county elections, there is reason to assume that more voters will vote in majority elections. A danger with the government's proposals can be that there may be unintended effects in the form of a stronger personal-focused campaign in relation to decision-making. The parties will be able to experience that individual representatives are becoming more concerned with highlighting themselves at the expense of others. Another question that can be asked is whether the scheme proposes by the government will introduce controversial candidates, as no deletion will be able to balance the view of a candidate who is not wanted by the voters, often for the same reasons that make him popular with others. One must acknowledge that organised campaigns could affect the personal order, but a barrier limit of 8 pst. at the same time, of the choice of the lot required to take into account the votes of the persons, there may also be a certain barrier to the excessive operation of very few or well-organised select actions. However, there is also reason to believe that small lots will be more vulnerable to these effects than larger lots. The question of a larger element of personal choice concerns the fundamental issue of how to give voters a greater impact on who will represent them on the Stortinget, while, in our view, the issue is to choose a solution that can provide a good balance between party democracy and a more general democratic principle in which individual voters, independent of party membership, have more direct and real influence over the list order through their voting. There is therefore reason to stress the importance and value of having open and democratic party structures in Norway where citizens can engage in democratic party processes, including the election of candidates for the Stortinget. It is therefore important, in our view, to strike a good balance between different democratic instruments in order to ensure the dissemination of power. When the Storting proposed in its request decision in 2012 to introduce a system of cumulation by decision-making, as well as a change in the rules for the recruitment of candidates, it was justified by the desire to increase the influence of voters. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party supports the government’s proposal that a personal vote of at least 8 p.m. by the total number of votes in the list shall be obtained by the number of personal votes received. But the Christian People's Party does not seem to take sufficient account of the government's proposals to ensure that the outcome of the democratic party processes and the parties' ability to ensure influence over which candidates are elected. Therefore, in order to better maintain party democracy and the processes leading up to an approved electoral list, as well as to give voters greater influence, the Christian People's Party proposes to introduce a system of voting add-ons for the approved number of candidates by model from today's system of election to local government. A system of add-on votes in combination with amendment of the rules for the appointment of candidates such that a personal number of at least 8 pst. by the total number of votes in the list, according to the number of personal votes received, will, in our view, create a better balance between party democracy and voters' general influence over the order of the ballot. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party. If our proposal were to fall, the Christian People's Party would vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1983	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e1986	I would also like to make some comments on the choice of individuals in the event of a decision to deposit. The other legislative changes are unanimous, and I refer you to the rapporteur's statement. As has been said, the rules governing the election of individuals in the event of a roll call have remained unchanged since 1921. An electoral commission was set up, which did a thorough job and in its investigation NOU 2001: 03 recommended that the electoral influence be increased, and that the solutions were as similar as possible between the different choices. The Central Party is in agreement with the Committee, all except the Workers' Party, to say that there is a democratic problem that there is a voting system in large elections that is of no real value. The case we are now dealing with has a direct background in a request decision that a unanimous increase took place on 14 June 2012. I was the case rapporteur for that at the time. The decision referred to in the referral is a decision that was demanding, because it was supposed to bring everyone together, and it was a decision that meant that one had to go into a case where there were clearly cross-cutting considerations and different assessments. In the program of the Centre Party for the current period, we say that the Centre Party will "work for an electoral system that gives voters greater direct power over the population composition of the Stortinget". Our basic attitude is clear. When we have not come to terms with the matter now, it is among other things. because it has not been given the necessary process in the Committee which could bring together the various proposals, thereby making it irresponsible. What contributed to this was that the rapporteur did not comment until 31 May. For this reason, we in the Centre Party believe that the setting – at the point of personal choice in the event of a roll-call vote – should be postponed and that a decision will only be taken at the 2021 elections. It is also an argument in this case that the nomination work for the roll-out election in 2017 is in full swing, and a postponement to the next session will be a wise and necessary decision. Therefore, the Centre Party promotes a proposal that I would like to refer to: «The Government asks the Government to come back with a new proposal for amendments to the Election Act § 7-2 and the first paragraph of § 11-5 [[personnel selection by decision-making]] As stated in the proposal – ‘wherever comments’ – it is that what the government has done so far, in the light of the request decision of 14 June 2012, should also be included in the assessment. I would like to stress that I believe it is essential that the government here draws the parties into this process, so that one may have the necessary time to mature a position that should gather a larger flock, in line with what was the intention of the election law committee that delivered the NOU 2001: 03, voters, electoral system, elected. I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2013	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2016	There is really a lot of fear in this room to let the voters influence who will sit in this room. There's no way you can get a democratic commitment to 'actions', like you call it, and people who go to the polls to vote for those who want to sit on the Storting, and then you make it something negative. I think it's amazing. There are some things that are wonderful in this debate. We had a debate before today on immigration, where the representatives of the Progress Party were up on the pulpit and dearly and sacredly stated that it was the most natural thing for those who represented the government party to vote in favour of the government's proposals. Something else would be naughty. Then we're here, in the next case, where one with the greatest self-segment votes down proposals from the government, even a proposal that is meant to give people most more power. I thought it was amazing, and I did not think that the representative of the Progress Party was doing it in a particularly impressive way. It has been said very well about the open, thorough and democratic nomination processes in the political parties. It has to be mine, but the reality is that it's 1.4 pst. which participates in those processes - 98.6 pst. does not. This is at best a democracy for the few. The representative, Martin Kolberg, produced this as if if a few were allowed to influence the order of the list after the nomination meeting had made sense, a minority could run over a number of them. Reality is the exact opposite. I don't have full control of the number of participants in the Nomination Meeting of the Workers' Party, but I'm pretty sure that if over 8 pst. By the Labour Party's voters in any state will make a change, there are more than those who participate in the nomination process, i.e. there's a multiple that says that the minority has come with a list they're not happy with. There is nothing undemocratic about it. That the Workers' Party is against the voters' being able to influence the lists is no surprise. They have been open and honest for years, and it is even right in the committee's comments that all parties in the committee, with the exception of the Labour Party, think that it is a problem that we have an electoral system that gives the impression that one can influence the list when one cannot. The Labour Party thinks it's not a problem that we have an election scheme that gives the impression that one can affect the lists, when one cannot. But that the Progress Party chooses to sit on the same line is more disappointing – and it's surprising. So now it has to be over that there are proposals from the Right-front party government that we are sitting on the Stortinget cannot assume that the Right and the Advance Party are behind. It's happened a little too many times. It is a form of parliamentaryism that calls for good decisions and good processes in the Storting. Today's personal preferences policy is to trick the choosers. It's obfuscating the reality, which is that there's never been a change in the order of a list. It's never going to happen either as long as the requirement is that over 50 pst. by the selectors to make the same change. And when we get criticism from the OSCE because of this, I think there's reason to take over. So a little bit of an impression, if one follows the debate here and listens to the counter-argument, that setting up a personal selection system with a certain barrier is kind of a new system, and then wondering what the consequences might be. But there's nothing new. We know very well how this works. We know it in municipal elections, and we know it in county elections. In local elections, over 40 pst. changes made to the lists by the choosers. It is quite obvious that the voters have an engagement around whom to enter, and want to express it. In County Options, where one has the same model that is now proposed, there are changes. In my county, for example, Sogn and Fjordane, there are people in my own party who are elected to the county because of their voices. I don't think either of us saw anything particularly negative about it. On the contrary, I think it was good both for the party and for them that we created the great commitment, and that people wanted people to be elected. I would also like to add that all the criticisms here and speculations about the negative consequences of dropping the electorate to the frameworks, too, without anyone looking to have a big problem that that's the system we're using. In the public debate, and also here, there's a lot of speculation about what consequences it could be. Will it, for example? become more men, more older men, being selected? We don't have to speculate that much because we actually have a lot of knowledge. It has been a thorough process before we stand here today – with public selections, with research, with knowledge acquisition. The Institute for Social Research has looked at the history of choice; they have simulated how such a model will turn out in the event of a collapse. And what is the conclusion? The conclusion is not that men — and older men — will be preferred and selected. So there's no scientific or scientific evidence to assume it. On the other hand, what we see in our neighbouring countries – both in Sweden and in Denmark – that let the voters escape is that one can get actions with many voters who want to put up and get their candidate, but there are quite often young candidates who want to get in, there are candidates representing different groups that are underrepresented, with minority backgrounds, for example, and also women. The Rokkan Centre also has research on the choice of people in municipal and county elections, and what they find is that people vote for candidates to a large extent because of the stand of candidates in political matters, not because of different external characteristics. It was the representative of Thorheim who said that a risk here is that so-called people with little connection to the party can be elected. Then I would say that if the Progress Party is concerned that so-called known people with little connection to the Progress Party are going to enter the Storting, they might not want to put those people in their election lists. Today we see a tendency that a set of people on the election list who really don't want to be elected to the Storting, and that the parties don't want to be elected to the Storing, but they put them there anyway, for different reasons. Maybe you'll end it if there's a situation where there's a real possibility that anyone who says they're at their disposal to be selected can actually be selected. I don't think there will be anything negative for Norwegian democracy. We're not going to exaggerate how much you want to let go of the selector. I certainly believe that there will be a great deal of commitment, I certainly believe there will be changes to the lists, but I also believe that the lists will essentially be about what they are, because the parties, after all, take some wise care when they set up the lists – and because one wants a barrier limit. When Ein began this model in Sweden, one saw that 12 out of 349 representatives of Parliament were elected on the basis of votes – 12 out of 349. It is not a conversion. But probably there were very good reasons why the twelve created a great deal of commitment and many enough people wanted them to sit in the national assembly even though the parties had placed them further down. Now, unfortunately, we're missing out on a historical possibility you've had. I understand that there's actually a number in the hall here that says they want to drop the selections to a greater extent. SV says it, the Christian People's Party says it, the Center Party says it, the Right, the Left and the Environment Party The Green Party says it. But with the exception of the last three, the others have found different reasons why they are not entirely satisfied with the model that has been proposed, they will explain a little more, get a little more knowledge – we do not know enough. I think it's a very bad thing that you haven't managed to get together about it a number in Stortinget actually mean – if they think so – simply that the voters should let go of more. Then I understand that the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party are very much in favour of such an arrangement, but I also understand that the reason they do not vote for it is that it has been a bit of a bad procedure in the committee. That seems very strange to me. I'm not in the committee, but I think it sounds like a strange reason not to be involved in helping to form a multiple for something that's very important. This option is now going to disappear for the voters, which is, after all, the most important thing. One should probably figure out a little bit more, and maybe things will come up again in the next period, and then find a sure reason to do some more - or maybe have a slightly higher locking limit, or have a precumulation, or something like that. I didn't think it seemed to honor the Greatness, I didn't think it meant honor to the different parties. Here one should have managed to gather. It's not clear, and the only ones that lose out on it are the selectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2061	I shall be happy to have the shortest articles of the day. I would like to include the SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2066	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2069	This is an important matter of principle, and I am pleased that the Stortinge today is discussing changes in the rules on voting rights. It's not the first time, as the representative Rotevatn said, and it doesn't seem to be the last time either. I believe that the proposal put forward by the government is a good and balanced proposal for new rules on personal elections. I believe that the time has come to expand and strengthen democracy and to give the voters real influence also on the people who are elected as big ones. It has something to say about who's sitting on the Stortinget, not just what party they belong to. I believe that this kind of electoral influence will enrich our policy and democracy. It is obvious that the voters have a desire to be able to influence also the persons sitting on the Stortinget. At the 2013 big shot, it was a total of 11.9 pst. as directed on the roll-out list. That means there were about 340,000 voters who had views on the order. I'm a little in doubt if the voters are aware that that correction has no real value. The parties have a strong position in our democracy. They will also have this change, which means that the influence of voters is increasing. This is really about a balance between the power of the parties and the influence of the voters. Of course, a real electoral influence could also have consequences for who is elected to the Stortinget. At the same time, research has shown that voters often have the same view of the candidates as the parties, and that there are, to a large extent, the same candidates who are placed high on the list of the parties, who also receive many votes. It will still be so that it is the parties who nominate candidates and thus have full control over who makes the elections. It's just the order of the candidates that the parties have chosen to nominate, the voters can influence. I note that there is no majority in the Committee on the proposal we have now tabled. At the same time, I am pleased that a majority expresses a principle of support for a more real electoral influence, and that today the government will be asked to come back with a new proposal, after making new assessments, taking into account the comments. That's what I want to do, and I also want to get started quickly on that work. As I said, it is not the first time the Storting discusses changing the rules of personal choice. Several proposals have been made in Stortinget, but so far no change has been adopted. When you look at the debate that has been in Stortinget in the past, there is often a desire for more knowledge and experience. It is natural and reasonable to have a good basis before changes are made. In the area of elections, this is becoming even more important, as it concerns who will last and last sit on the Grand Duchy and pass laws. I believe, however, that we have sufficient knowledge, but I note that there is a desire for us to go a new round where the Committee's comments can also be taken into account, and I will do so, as I said. There are also other proposals presented in the proposal that have received a majority in the vote, among others. the proposal for the introduction of electronic check-out into the polling population on the election day. I am pleased that it is a majority in favour of this proposal. I believe that the experience we have gained trying on this scheme shows that there is reason to believe that this will help to streamline the electoral process in the municipalities that choose to make use of it. However, I would like to stress that it is voluntary for municipalities to make use of this scheme. As the Committee has noted, none of the municipalities involved in the experiment want to return to the number of paper crews. Another important legislative amendment is the modification of the deadline for the approval of pre-vote votes. Today, prior votes must be received by 1 p.m. 21 on the election date in order to be approved. When the prior voting period lasts until Friday evening, it has been challenging for several years to ensure that all cast votes arrive in time. When the post office now transfers its mail delivery, it has a direct impact on the shipment of pre-selections. We therefore propose to move the deadline for the approval of the pre-vote to Tuesday after the election day. 17. It is very important that prior votes issued within the time limits laid down by law be included in the electoral procedure. This will mean that the election result will be available later than we are used to, but weighed against the need not to reject correctly cast votes, I believe that it is a price we must be able to live with. I am pleased that the Committee supports this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2088	The representative Knag County held an exemplary short post. You might say that it was so short that we're still a little bit uncertain about SV's possible subsidiary voting. Of course, it is excellent that he has formally addressed his own proposal, but it would also be of interest to hear what SV will vote subsidiaryly, because we have heard that on a reputational basis that perhaps could increase support for the government's proposal. It would have been nice. Perhaps the most important reason why I am speaking now is the wonderful information that the progress of the rapporteur should have affected the Central Party's thinking activities in this matter. Then you just have to look at the realities. It is clear that one can assume that a case rapporteur from the largest government party will enter the same real position that exists from the government, so there has been no problem. Moreover, if you want an open process on the real content of a proposal, you do not have to wait until the rapporteur has made his views known and thus locked his own views. If you really wanted it, you could have done it. When I can then also add, without disclosing too much from the Committee's internal life, that it was I, as case rapporteur, who would like to have this matter before the summer holiday – it has actually been replaced in our waiting list with a matter that was transferred to after the summer – I think it is a not quite striking criticism. On the other hand, I think that the observations of the representative Rotevatn from the outside of the committee are quite precise. I would therefore like to say that in this case one can assume that the Central Party has not been so united in getting a process forward quickly. You want to give the impression that you're in favour of increased electoral influence in principle, it just doesn't fit with the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2095	I take the word very briefly to say that the Left too will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Central Party if our own, right and environmental party Dei Greene's proposals fall. The Council of State would like to come back to Stortinget with a new and distributed case, but we are also some with the Council of State that we already have enough knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2114	I would first like to commend the government and the department for a quick examination of the Stortingen request decision. We know that the department has gone a long way to get this done within a tight time frame. I would also like to thank the Committee and the Presidency for the fact that it was possible to deal with this legislative amendment in the current session. When examining the position of the Transport and Communications Committee, Innst. 203 S for 2015–2016, on the proposal of representatives of the deposit representatives Abid Q. Raja, Ketil Kjenseth, Pål Farstad and Terje Breivik on improving road safety for bicycles, Stortinget took the following decisions on 15 March 2016: ‘In the Grand Duchy, the Government is asking for guidance on the closure of bicycle rides, with a view to promoting proposals to improve road safety for participants in the ride, the public and other road users along the route. By the end of 2016, the Government, in cooperation with the cycling organisations, is asked to provide a regulatory framework to allow organisers of bicycle rides to use mobile guards to assist in traffic management in the implementation of bicycle rides. The decision-making authority to allow the use of such guards shall be with the individual police officer. The use of mobile guards shall be subject to adequate training. III The UK Government asks for temporary measures to ensure the possibility of carrying out planned cycling in 2016 and equal practices in police districts.’ The Government submits proposals for amendments to the Law of 18 June 1965 No. 4 on road traffic, Road Traffic Act. A new Section 7(b) is proposed to lay down detailed provisions on road bicycle rides open to general traffic. Such provisions could regulate different aspects of cycling, including application and complaint procedures, conditions for the implementation of the route and the possibility to derogate from traffic regulation provisions. The paragraph also introduces the possibility of assigning traffic regulators to stationary and mobile guards assisting in the performance of bicycle rides. Subject to the paragraph, minimum age, fitness, competence and certificates of competence may be required for such designation and for the possibility of waiving traffic regulation provisions. It will also be possible to lay down rules on the competent activities and fees for the issue of certificates of competence. The purpose of the amendment is to establish a clear legal framework for cycling on the road in order to ensure the safety of passengers, spectators and other road users without unduly reducing the accessibility of other road users. A rigid regulatory framework and its practice have made it expensive to organise bicycle rides on public roads. There has also been different practice of the law. This applies both to traffic management and watchkeeping. This legislative amendment provides the basis for releasing voluntary forces in an area where the police have been unique. However, it is important to note that the police will continue to be a key player in the decision-making process. The police also decide whether private guards can be used on each trip. A Joint Committee hopes that this legislative amendment will facilitate the continued organisation of small and large bicycle rides throughout the country within a safe framework and without excessive costs for the organisers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2144	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2158	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2163	The proposers wish to obtain ‘an independent legal opinion on Norway’s relationship with EU financial supervision and the relationship with the Basic Law provisions relating to the transfer of sovereignty’. This question is discussed in detail in Prop. 100 S for 2015-2016, where the judgements of the Legal Service on the transfer of powers to ESA and the EFTA Court, respectively, by virtue of the incorporation of the relevant acts into the EEA, have been submitted. The law department's assessment is that parts of the transfer of authority are known to be more than minor, and the government recommends that the case should therefore be dealt with under Section 115 of the Constitution, which requires a three-quarters majority. It appears from the proposal that the Ministry of Finance has obtained a total of four assessments of the constitutional situation of the various models that have emerged in the negotiations on the EEA adaptation to the EU System of Financial Supervision and on which they have been submitted. Paragraph 83 of the Constitution allows the Stortinget to obtain legal references from the Supreme Court, as the Christian People's Party now suggests. This provision has been in use a few times, the last time in 1945 about the working time of the Storting and the convocation after the release. A proposal to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court on the relationship between the EEA Agreement and the Constitution was rejected by the Stortinget on 23 September 1992. It is the Storting itself that assesses whether this is in line with the provisions of the Constitution and what paragraph the case is to be dealt with after. But there is a long and secure tradition that the Storting is based on the government's assessment, and the government is constitutionally responsible for the accuracy and coverage of the information provided. In this context, I mention that the Law Department gives its legal professional judgements as an expert body and independent of political leadership. The constitutional aspects of the case have also been part of the proceedings of the Financial Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Financial Committee had an in-depth consultation on the matter, where these issues were also well-explained. Most parties agree to the government's assessment of this point, although some parties would like the negotiated solution to be different, and therefore want the government to make new attempts at the negotiating table. As part of the justification for the proposal, it states that ‘it is of great importance that the Storting should be given sufficient time to deal with this matter’. The matter was sent to Stortinget within the time limit we had set for the government to wait for the matter to be dealt with in the spring session, 15 April. But the matter has a much longer history. The size has been informed about the work on this matter through various documents and consultations. In the EU, the Financial Supervision Scheme entered into force on 1 January 2011 and then began negotiations with EFTA countries on how it could be implemented in the EEA Agreement. These issues have been briefed and worked on from the financial market notification in 2009 onwards and in each notification up to 2015. It was briefed on in the State budgets 2010, 2011, 2014, in the revised budget 2014 and in the State budgets 2015 and 2016. It has been mentioned in the EU/EEA statements from 2013 onwards and in the European Committee meetings. At the meeting of the European Committee on 13 October 2014, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Europe reviewed the main features of the solution currently under consideration by the Stortinget and that the solution is within the two-pillar system, that it involves the transfer of powers in some areas to the EFTA Surveillance Authority and the EFTA Court, and that the government considers it to be subject to the consent of the Stortinget by a three-quarters majority under the Constitution § 115. I also want to point out that in Innst. 227 S for 2012–2013 to Notify. St.5 for 2012–2013, where Norwegian links to agencies and supervision were mentioned on a general basis, the Government asked a comprehensive Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to consider a solution in line with the Tupillar system in the EEA Agreement. That's exactly what the result has been. I think it is right to mention this because it is a matter that started under the previous government, which also worked for a solution in line with what has been achieved. The size has been continuously informed about the matter. It is then difficult to claim that it came in a hurry to the Storting, and the need for further constitutional clarifications should therefore be reflected at a significant earlier stage of the process. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2191	It is not always possible to say that you have a post from a representative from the Workers' Party, but the thorough review that the representative Svein Roald Hansen had now shows that this is a matter with which the Stortinget has been familiar for a long time. And then, in the request for treatment in Stortinget, it has been a wish from the Central Party to postpone the matter first, and then promote this proposal. I have great respect for that. But now we are going to discuss the financial supervision issue in Stortinget on Monday. It has been thoroughly explained to all the groups that then there will be full attendance and thorough treatment, which will allow us to deal with that matter properly. The right will also reject the proposal that has been put forward – the two proposals that are on the table. I also refer to the thorough review by the representative Hansen of the course of the case, which I also think speaks for that is a matter that you can now take and discuss in Stortinget on Monday, and do not have an extra round here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2196	I have to agree with the two previous speakers, so I'm going to be very short. I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to inform you that we are going to vote against the proposed representative who has been promoted and to resolve the proposal that has been put forward in the Chamber. I don't want to go into a debate about the financial supervision itself. We are going to debate it thoroughly on Monday. When it comes to the concerns of the proposers as to whether this procedure could create a precedent for future renunciation of sovereignty to other EU agencies and regulators, my brief comment is that it would be natural for us to consider each case individually as they might be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2205	It is true, as has been said, that the matter itself is likely to be dealt with in its full width on Monday. We in the Committee have had both consultation and extensive discussions on the matter, there is no doubt about it. However, when we from the Christian People's Party promote a proposal now – although it is a little overtime, I ask that it be met, so that it can be dealt with here today – where we ask that, in accordance with the Basic Law § 83, the Court of Justice prepare a legal opinion on our relationship with the EU's financial supervision, it has its reason that there has become an increasingly strong debate on whether the solution recommended by the government and which is likely to have a significant majority here is within the framework of the Constitution. After all, the government itself – and it is deserving – has recognised that this is a significant waiver of sovereignty and must therefore be dealt with under Section 115. But we believe that this could now be a good basis for possibly confirming that the solution chosen is within the framework of the Constitution, by asking the Supreme Court to carry out this assessment. Then why do we use § 83? This is because this is the Basic Law's own instructions on how the Storting can ask for a legal opinion from a competent team, in addition to the government. The government doesn't have that possibility, it doesn't say anything about it in the Constitution. That is why it is up to the Stortinget to make that request, if any. If it turns out that the Supreme Court found that this was not within the framework of the Constitution, we have saved both a lot of time and effort, so that we do not risk getting into a situation where we first get a concrete case through the judicial system that comes to the Supreme Court – and thus can get a final sentence that says that this was not under the Constitutional Law, with the subsequent consequences it will have. And it is true that the Supreme Court has actually not refuted to say that decisions in this Chamber have been outside of the Constitution – it is enough just to mention the Information Society's fund and Santa Claus law as two important examples from a relatively short time ago. There is good reason to ask whether the construction – I think one can choose the word – that is now proposed under our agreement is in relation to § 115, where serious questions can be asked about the real influence Norway has, and in particular given that it has also been said by the government that this can quickly form the basis for how we should deal with similar matters in other areas of the case. On that basis, I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2220	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2223	Our constitution is the main support of our entire system of governance. It is our responsibility as a big deal to manage it and that decisions we make are in line with the spirit and letter of the Constitution. If you're in doubt, you should stop, give yourself more time, and you should get legal and constitutional judgements from our leading professionals. In this case, there is a lot of uncertainty. These are clear counter-conceptions. The extent of the matter is very large. It's the greatest waiver of sovereignty since 1992, and it's been the second time in Norway's history that we use § 115, a paragraph that requires three-quarters majority. This shows the seriousness of the matter we are dealing with. Has the Storting taken it over? After the urgent consultation we had in the financial committee on 12 May, to which it was called on Tuesday, and which came on Thursday, very urgent, many new information has not been disclosed in the proposal. Our leading constitutional expert, Professor Eivind Smith, who is the leading adviser and professional authority of all parties in promoting changes to the Constitution, has been clear. Let me quote: ‘The solution the government wants the Storting on is most a purely formalistic circumvention of the requirements for the transfer of authority in the Constitution.’ So it's a ‘ bypassing the authority transfer requirements in the Constitution’. Clearly, it cannot be said. Other heavy legal disciplines, such as the University of Bergen, have warned against it, as has the legal profession in Tromsø. A main argument from the case rapporteur and from the government parties has been that there is time pressure. Because the case is to be dealt with so quickly in Iceland, Norway cannot stand alone, so we need to deal with the matter urgently and do it more quickly than if we were going to deal with a medium-sized Document 8. Then we're told from Iceland that it won't be treated until summer. There's a lot of uncertainty about the outcome. The foremost legal experts in Iceland warn against this being contrary to their constitution. That is why it is still under consideration in two committees in the Icelandic Everything. Why should we take easier on our constitution than what Everything does in Iceland? Why do we have to deal with a matter urgently, when Iceland takes its time and this in any case will not come into force until Iceland has also made its decisions? How can we be sure that what we're doing is consistent with the Constitution, when our heaviest legal environments aren't, and when the foremost of them, Professor Eivind Smith, is so clear? What we in the Center Party are proposing today is a proposal to clarify the matter better. Why do the other parties here in the house fear that? I hope that you set aside some prestige, your responsibility is conscious, you see that it is very controversial whether this is in accordance with the Constitution, you get heavy legal skills, you get an assessment. We have time to do so, and we as a Parliament must take time to do so when such heavy counter-arguments are put forward from as heavy professional environments as we see here. So my appeal is: Dear co-representatives, vote for the proposal, so that the matter is better informed! I would also like to state that we will of course support the proposal that Hans Olav Syversen addresses on behalf of the Christian People's Party. It should be a cross-section of mind for the other members of the Financial Committee that the chairperson of the Financial Committee also sees the need for such a heavy legal assessment as he now calls for, and that the other members of the Financial Committee and of the Stortinge are so confident that they have a higher legal understanding than those of Norway’s most serious legal experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2243	I am a strong supporter of better transnational supervision of financial markets – it is necessary. The financial crisis showed us what happens when one does not have a good enough overview of how one of the most important industries in the world is managed. This is an industry and a field within society that has a major cyclical impact on people's daily lives, but which is difficult to understand, difficult to regulate and difficult to deal with in crisis situations. Therefore, it is with a bit of a heavy heart that SV has gone in to not support the government's proposal, and we will explain this in more detail on Monday, it may look like, when the matter is set up for consideration. But I still feel like it's in place to tell why me and SV, who are basically very positive to a more common cross-border financial supervision, are so sceptical in this case. I think that both Hans Olav Syversen and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum have done well. After all, the willingness to regulate and supervise financial markets needs to be done in a way that makes everyone in the hall feel safe to know what to do. In this case, I can't say with my hands on the heart that everyone in the hall wants to know what they're doing. There have been conflicting signals from the government about the effects of such inclusion. Contradictory signals have been received from the various parties supporting the government’s proposals, on the extent to which such changes will affect not only the financial supervision of Norway and our legislation, but also legal entities in Norway. It is also unclear how this can be fully reconciled with the Basic Law § 115. There is even black on white in the proposition from the government as follows: ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU Supervisory Authority, will take a similar or similar decision.’;» In practice, it means that EFTA becomes a copy-making body of the three financial supervision bodies of the European Union. All the time we will not have the right to vote in EU financial supervision means that Norway has limited influence over supervision involving Norway and Norwegian legal entities. It will also mean that Norway and Norwegian legal entities have different and more limited access to justice than the other European countries and financial sector actors. I have problems to see that it is well demonstrated by the majority that this is a form of sovereignty waiver that is in line with the purpose of the Basic Law § 115. Then the good news is that it's important to figure out if you take your time and get legal opinions. Especially in matters where we renounce sovereignty and use this paragraph for the first time, we should have the best possible basis for decision-making. This is a matter which means that Norway’s relationship with the EU’s financial supervision will be without real practical influence on the policy imposed on us. There will be a waiver of sovereignty on the edge, I would say, of what the Constitution permits. Our agreement will give powers to EU financial supervision, from which it is difficult to understand the future consequences. Norwegian actors, as far as I can see, will not have access to the subject of recognition to which other actors will have access in the EU. It is doubtful how effective Norwegian authorities would have access to court proceedings in cases where the European Union Supervisory Authority interprets the EEA acquis in breach of Norwegian position. Not least, as Syversen was also in mind, Norway, with the support of the government's current negotiating premises, will weaken Norway's position in similar negotiations on participation in EU supervision in other areas, such as telecoms, privacy and energy. And these are not all areas, these are quite important areas of how Norway is managed, how Norwegian values are managed, and how Norwegian laws are designed. As I said, I am strongly in favour of better supranational governance with the financial markets. It requires democratic governance with the financial markets, not to give up powers without being able to understand the consequences. I believe that the best supporters of a Norwegian accession to the EU Financial Supervision could have done right now was to join the proposals of both the Christian People's Party and the Centre to gain better knowledge about the real consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2265	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2269	The debate over the last few days has shown that there are representatives of various parties who support the concern that the Central Party has constantly raised. Especially in the Government Party, several representatives have emerged that are very sceptical of the solution that has now been chosen. So my challenge to Roy Steffensen, who is speaking on behalf of the Progress Party, is: Is the Progress Party freed? Or is it that there is so much prestige in this matter that people are not allowed to vote on their own convictions? On such a large and so fundamental issue as the surrender of sovereignty from the Norwegian Storing and the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to Brussels and the European Financial Supervisory Authority, is it the attitude of the Progress Party now – to whip people in place? Or can the individual representative vote in accordance with what you think is right? I hope in such a sort of question, which for me would have been a question of conscience, that the Progress Party has not become so religious as not to allow its representatives to vote on their own convictions. I am also sure that several of the representatives who have been elected here both from the Labour Party and from the Progress Party have flagged high in the election campaign that they are for Norwegian sovereignty, that they are for Norway not to be a member of the EU. Then one should also be released in a matter like this. There has been a tradition in Norway that representatives can vote on precisely such questions to their own satisfaction. So my challenge to Roy Steffensen is: can he, on behalf of the Progress Party, clarify whether it is such that all representatives of the Advance Party are now required to follow the party whip, or can they vote to their own conviction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2290	I am happy to come to Stortinget today to report on the recording of waiting times in the specialist health service. Significant efforts have been made to reduce waiting time in recent years. The numbers show that there has been a decrease in waiting times, and we believe that this main picture is correct. The fact that there is a discussion about statistics and registration is nothing new, but we take it very seriously. The regular waiting list statistics, which measure time for health care start-ups, show that the waiting time is falling. The number of pending also drops. The number of applications and investigations is increasing. In 2015, the average waiting time was 69 days compared with 78 days in 2010. The trend in waiting time has fluctuated slightly in the 2000s. If we go back to 2004 and 2005, we find about the same level of waiting time as in 2015, i.e. 70 days. The trend of falling waiting time is also confirmed by another waiting time target from the Health Directorate. This target shows the time from the referral received in the hospital until the patient has received a specific investigation or treatment, for 300,000 patients. These figures are available from 2013 to 2015. The objective provides more information on the selected trajectory and details the waiting list statistics. The figures show a decrease in the median waiting time of seven days from 2013 to 2015. Thus, the results do not support the claim of so-called increased internal waiting lists as a result of distortions from right to treatment to right to investigation. Or in other words, these are numbers that indicate that there is a real decline in average waiting times. The government will not only reduce the waiting time for hospitals, but also the waiting time for hospitals. The fact that the government has introduced a cycle of cancer packages shows that we are taking the patient’s course seriously. 30000 patients have now entered the package. In the course of the package, the patient is given defined times for investigation, diagnosis, decision and initiation of treatment, because all waiting means something to the patient’s experience of the health care meeting. The Directorate of Health has now been entrusted with the task of evaluating the package sequences, including for strokes, mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The positive trend in waiting time has many reasons. First of all, it is due to considerable efforts by those who work in hospitals. But it is also due to good and growing hospital budgets, more diversity and strengthened patient rights. Clearer demands for results and greater freedom for hospitals are also important. In the debate, it is claimed that the reduction in the number of waiting patients is going down on patients who are in a patient’s course in hospitals. Today's Medisin has used the term 'internal waiting lists' to describe this, and words like hidden waiting lists and secretaries. But this is about having an overview of the patient's course. Therefore, the term ‘internal waiting lists’ becomes misleading in this context. A good overview of the patient’s course shall be provided by all health regions. My clear impression is that this is something you've become more aware of, and is working more systematically with. Having an overview of patient outcomes is essential to have a good planning horizon, as the Riksrevision has also pointed out as necessary. Health regions have to work even more to get an overview of their course. Health South-East has figures that show that the reduction in waiting time does not affect patients who are in a patient’s course in hospitals. This is measured by looking at the development of the number of patients who have passed what is the tentative time of the patient’s meeting. From the beginning of April 2015, the number of patients who have passed tentative time has been reduced from 85 000 to 61 000 in May 2016. Patients are newly referred or in the course of treatment, and the reduction is equal for both groups. These figures suggest that work to reduce the waiting time for new referrals does not go at the expense of chroniclers and other patients in a process. In recent years, we have seen a change in the way that several patients are removed from the waiting lists once the investigation has begun. The Norwegian Patient Register has figures back to 2011. The figures show that the proportion of newly referred patients in the investigation has increased from 69 pst. in 2011 to 85 pst. in 2015. Similarly, the proportion of newly referred patients to treatment is reduced. The change in the withdrawal of more patients from the waiting list at the start of an investigation than at the start of treatment, thus, began before this government took over, and long before the new patient rights were introduced on 1 November 2015. Today, we do not know why the proportion of patients judged to be in need of investigation is greater than in the past. This may be due to the needs of patients, the desire for a more thorough investigation before treatment, altered routines or other conditions. Nor do we have a medical knowledge base that can confirm what is the correct proportion or distribution between these two groups. When referring patients to the specialist healthcare service, the specialist healthcare service shall assess the referral within 10 working days and decide whether the patient is entitled to the necessary health care. If the patient is entitled to the necessary health care, an individual legally binding period shall be set for the initiation of either investigation or treatment. The time limit shall be set at a time which allows the start and completion of a patient’s course during a medically sound period. If during the assessment period it is possible to determine with a high probability which treatment the patient should have, the condition is considered to be resolved. In this case, a time limit shall be set within which the treatment shall be started at the latest. In other cases, it will not be possible to determine the specific treatment the patient needs at the time of referral. There might be several reasons for this. One may be unsure what is wrong with the patient, or what will be proper treatment for the patient. It is also not in the patient’s interest to have a time limit for a given treatment if the diagnosis is not established, or it is uncertain which treatment he or she should have. Further investigation will therefore be necessary to clarify this. In such cases, it would be appropriate to set a time limit for the initiation of the investigation. The time limit is only met when the patient is given a real start to the patient’s course. It is therefore not sufficient for the hospital to summon the patient to one hour, if the necessary investigation actually does not start. This has been referred to as a greeting hour in the debate. However, the patient cannot be removed from the waiting lists after a greeting hour or conversation. Necessary investigation must have been initiated. It is important to stress that the requirement of sound treatment applies in any case. Patients withdrawn from the waiting list after initiation of the investigation shall receive further follow-up and, where appropriate, treatment within a medically appropriate time. As stressed in the preparatory work for the new provision on the right to necessary health care, it is necessary that the entire patient course be planned as far as possible and that information on this should be provided to the patient. It is therefore important that hospitals have an overview of the patient’s course. So it's not critical or something that's wrong. Hospitals need to have an overview of the overall patient population to be managed, regardless of the patient’s location in the course of treatment and be able to plan well. The fact that patients are on so-called internal waiting lists in hospitals is therefore not a problem in itself, as it is reported, among other things. in the Medicine of the Day. In today's Medicine, it was referred to the Clinic for Head, Neck and Reconstructive Surgery at Oslo University Hospital. There they had 15,782 patients registered in patient history, while the public waiting list showed that there were 2,456 patients waiting for investigation or treatment. I have referred the matter to Health South-East. An explanation of the figures is that in particular in the field of plastic surgery, it is natural that the number of patients in a course will be very large, precisely because many patients will need to contact the hospital over several years, including in the case of alcohol, alcohol and alcohol. through several subsequent operations, follow-up and regular checks. Nevertheless, I believe that hospitals need to work even more to get an overview of the patient’s course, i.e. having a good planning horizon. Having many patients within a course, however, is not critical. The debate also raised questions of rejection of referrals. According to the Patient and User Rights Act, a rating assessment may have two outcomes. The patient is entitled to the necessary health care in the specialist healthcare service, or the patient does not need health care in the specialist healthcare service. If there is no information in the reference suggesting that the patient needs an investigation or treatment of the specialist healthcare service and the person considering the referral does not suspect that the referral is deficient, the result of the rating assessment will be that the patient does not have the right to the necessary healthcare in the specialist health service. In such cases, the patient is referred back to the primary health service. In 2015, the specialist healthcare service received some 1,6 million referrals. Of these, around 203 000 were considered not to be in need of health care in the specialist healthcare service. It's these numbers that are called rejected references. The proportion of rejected referrals was 12.7 pst. in 2015. The corresponding figure for 2012 was 9.8 pst. The Norwegian patient registry has not published figures for this before 2012. A lot has been done to ensure good interaction and dialogue between hospitals and decision-makers. A referral guide has been prepared that may be used by permanent practitioners referring to the specialist health service. A diagnostic guide for patients has also been established to enter the cancer pack course – with links to the referral counsellor. In order to ensure comprehensive and coordinated services for patients, municipalities and hospitals are required by law to conclude cooperation agreements. So the proportion of rejected patients has been slightly increasing since 2012, but according to the Health Directorate, the figures here are somewhat uncertain. Therefore, the figures may be higher than there is a basis for saying. As part of the investigation mission of the Health Directorate, I would ask them to look at the causes of rejected patients in the specialist healthcare service. I would also like to ask the Health Directorate to look carefully at just these two issues. Policies shall be reviewed against the legislation and prioritisation guides. I would also like to ask the Health Directorate to assess the allegations of different practices of the legislation between different hospitals. The Directorate for Health shall also assess the need for more measures in order to ensure uniform and correct regulatory practices. Overall, this mission is relatively time-consuming, and the deadline for the mission will therefore be set late in 2016. I would also like to address the issue of the four health regions in a meeting to be held on 22 June – this to make sure that the legislation is correctly understood. This is not the first time we have a debate about the registration of waiting times in the specialist health service. The National Audit Office’s 2012 report and the Health Authority’s oversight of the specialist health service’s management of patients with gastrointestinal and endothelial cancer revealed that hospitals registered ‘end of waiting’ differently in the Norwegian patient registry. The Health Directorate was therefore asked in 2013 to implement measures to achieve a more consistent and correct recording of waiting times. It was the previous government that gave this assignment. We have followed up and several measures have been put in place, including: new priority advisors and new waiting list waivers in 2015. Prioritisation guides for individual disciplines provide recommended deadlines for initiating the investigation of open-ended conditions and for initiating treatment for clarified conditions. Prioritisation guides provide a starting point for setting deadlines, but the specialist healthcare service must always make an individual medical professional assessment of the referral. The Health Directorate has developed a new waiting list waiver in 2015. The purpose is equal to and correct recording of waiting time. The four health regions have further cooperated on and developed a new e-learning course for personnel. The criteria for granting patients the right to necessary health care and who should have this right in the form of time limits for investigation or treatment are described here. More measures have therefore been put in place since 2012 to improve the quality of waiting lists. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. One challenge that is constantly being addressed by patients themselves and in international studies is that a waiting for unnecessary treatment in Norway compared to other countries. The government has therefore taken a number of steps to reduce the waiting time for patients. From the day one, therefore, our assignment to the hospitals was very clear: the waiting times were going down. In the past, hospitals were closely followed up on the economic results. Now they are closely followed up on the results for patients, waiting time and quality. We've given hospitals better tools to solve this problem: They get more paid to treat more patients. Intervention-driven funding increased to 50 pst. as from 2014. We have removed the ceiling on how many patients they could treat from 2015 onwards. If hospitals find smarter ways to treat patients, they are not stopped by restrictions on how many patients they can treat. All health regions, on behalf of the government, have now set up response teams to help the individual head of department to change and transfer experience from other departments that have succeeded in increasing capacity and reducing waiting time. The 28 cancer package pathways have reduced unnecessary waiting for large patient groups, while the improved patient profile approach is a model for similar changes for other patient groups. The work has shown how by removing bottlenecks and coordinating the patient’s course across departments, one also eliminates unnecessary waiting. New patient rights entered into force on 1 November 2015. Now the patient receives a letter within 10 days, where there is a time when health care should start. Then the patient feels safer, and the hospital has to plan the activity further in time. This is really central. If one succeeds in reducing waiting times both for hospitals and hospitals and making better use of hospital resources, the hospitals need to plan their activity more in time. At the same time, hospitals were now also responsible for finding a new offer to the patient if they themselves failed to comply with the medical deadline. Before that, it was left to the individual patient to contact HELFO. We have also prioritised health higher. The 2016 state budget facilitates an activity growth of about 2.5 pst. This is a high budgeted activity growth compared to previous years. In the 2016 mission paper, I asked health regions to propose indicators that measure just capacity utilisation and efficiency. Regional health enterprises have now proposed different indicators for this. The proposals are now being evaluated in the Department. Indicators are intended to be used by the Ministry for the Management and Follow-up of Health Regions. Regional health establishments shall also use the indicators for the management and follow-up of their hospitals in the next round. Hospitals have also been given more tools, they are now close to them, and we believe that we have more indications that waiting times are falling. A great deal of work has been done in the regions and hospitals to reduce waiting times. This has been a priority area. Actions include close follow-up of hospitals through regular meetings, the development of much better management data and operational support to departments with major challenges through regional response teams. This shows that the government has put in place new ideas and better solutions to reduce unnecessary waiting for patients. This is not only about giving more money, but also about using resources better. Figures and results show that we are now seeing a decrease in waiting times. As I said at the outset, we believe that this gives a correct picture of the situation. It's nothing new that there's going to be a discussion about statistics and registration. We're serious about that. At the same time, I am convinced that the reduction in waiting times would not have taken place in the same way without the grips of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2399	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a short comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2404	I'm totally against patients waiting unnecessarily. Confidence in the Norwegian healthcare system is at stake, and waiting that is not medically justified can be extremely dangerous. There is no doubt about it and no political disagreement about it. Nor is there any disagreement that excellent work is being done in the hospitals. That's not what this discussion is about either. I also know that waiting lists and waiting times are complex questions that have remained in the discussion of Norwegian health policy for many years. There is therefore every reason to use the data with caution and, in addition to these statistics, to focus on other parameters when assessing hospital interventions. But what has happened during today's government? The opposite. Week after week, year after year, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Health and all in the Right and the Advancement Party have not allowed one single option to drift away from the uninhibited boast of their own efforts and without reservation claim that there are so-called 42,000 fewer patients in health queues now than before the government change. We have from this pulpit and from the public a number of times warned against using such simplified compilations. It is not possible to draw up individual statistics in this way without taking more reservations. Now the Minister of Health is a bit more humble. He uses other terms and says e.g. the main picture shows that the official statistics show and that the figures are uncertain as he pointed out. He even says that it is not a problem in itself that people are on so-called internal waiting lists, and that these accusations and accusations that there has been a reorientation in the registration, the government is now taking so seriously that they are going to give their own assignment to the Health Directorate – which is time-consuming and comprehensive, says the Health Minister – to go through what is actually the case. Then we are in a situation where, on behalf of patients, the opposition, the Stortinget and everyone else, I ask and demand that the government's self-criticism be subdued vigorously until we have the answers that the Health Directorate is asked to give, and that these reservations we have now heard from the Health Minister in the Stortinget be repeated every time the self-criticism about their own policies should be repeated, including in the public domain. In addition, on behalf of the Stortinget, I demand that the questions that many representatives from different parties have asked the government about what are the actual circumstances of these matters be answered in a factual, comprehensive and thorough manner. The Minister for Health pointed out, among other things: on the figures mentioned by Dagens Medisin and NRK at the one clinic in Oslo University Hospital. There are probably good reasons why many people are in a patient’s course there. I don't dispute that, and it's of course perfectly legitimate to have lists and overviews of patients within a course. It was supposed to be missing. That's not what this case is about. The issue is whether a number of these patients, previously mentioned in the so-called official statistics, have been moved into the internal statistics – the statistics the hospital does not see. I believe that it is not up to the government and the Minister of Health to assess whether this is so, for example. It is reasonable for the Stortinget to understand how many other patients are in so - called internal queues at the other clinics at Oslo University Hospital and the hospitals. We actually want that information here in Stortinget, so we can make up our own mind about how the numbers have evolved. Unfortunately, I have to state that the Minister of Health has not answered this in written questions a number of times. I'm now saying again that now the facts on the table, the rhetoric will be subdued, the self-crust is going down, and then we're going to have a proper, factual discussion about the future of Norwegian patients who are waiting. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I have made and can make a large number of contributions on the amazing efforts being made at the public hospitals. For years we have met with one-sided negative criticism. Now the government must also be responsible for what has happened on their guard, and answer the Storting properly. I would like to ask, if possible, that the Minister of Health at the end of this round confirm that he will now put away much of this unimpeded self-esteem until we have all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2423	Thank you to the Minister for Health for a full statement on waiting times and health cows. There has been a time shift in hospitals since the right-wing Party government took over. We've strengthened the hospital budget. We have facilitated a higher rate of growth in patient treatment in our three years than that of the previous government in eight years. We have removed the ceiling for how many patients the hospitals can treat. We have increased the purchase of places and treatment in the private sector in order to make use of available capacity and competence for the benefit of patients. We have carried out patient-oriented reforms in hospitals, such as a package for cancer and free treatment choices for drug use and mental health. The most important job is the health professionals who do, all over the country. When patient care is to be organised in a different way, as in the course of the package, it requires a lot of staff. And they have stretched, worked hard and contributed to what we see so clearly now – that waiting times go down, that health cows get shorter, and that the number of investigations and treatments goes up. A change in hospital registration practices has occurred over the year. There is currently no basis for saying anything bastant about what is the background to this, or what its consequences are. I refer to the Health Directorate's large study of 300,000 patient trajectories from 2014, which shows a reduced median waiting time of seven days. So we can be sure that the waiting times have gone down. In addition, at the latest today, I read a very interesting article that was posted on Health South-East's websites, written by Karl-Arne Johannessen, Nicolai Møkleby, Folke Vidar Sundelin and Bente Brandvik. It appears that efforts to reduce waiting times and avoid deadlines from 2013 have been prioritised as the main response of Health South-East and significant efforts have been made by individual health businesses to reduce waiting times. The average waiting time in the entity for all those waiting has been reduced from 113 days in January 2014 to 65 days in April 2016. In the same period, the number of pending decreases from 144 to 104 to 736. At the same time, the article is critical of the claims made that patients are concealed in so-called internal waiting lists. Based on these figures, I therefore react to how the Workers' Party has tried to make an angle over the past few weeks that the waiting times and the number of deadlines have fallen due to political pressure and trickling with numbers. Maybe it's understandable that the representative Micasen is upset, that he's trying to explain all of those results? But we will still be very proud of the good results that we are now creating. After eight years with the Workers' Party in the government, we have. Nearly 50,000 more patients were waiting for treatment, and waiting times had increased. Now there are over 40,000 fewer patients in health queues, and the waiting time is at a lower level than it was when the previous government took over. These are concrete, correct numbers that the Workers' Party cannot talk away. What we know before the elections next year is that the Workers' Party will reverse free treatment choices. Since the reform has been introduced gradually for drug and mental health, the Labour Party's policy will affect these patients most – the same patients who experienced not being prioritised for eight red-green years. Data from the Norwegian patient register show that the average waiting time for drug treatment in May was 34 days, i.e. a decrease of 27 days from 2013. Rapid referral from a regular to a specialist is one of the highest value patients. When Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, he said: ‘When health cows in Norway are growing, it is not because waiting times are rising, but because we are able to help more and more, and more people are being referred to. Then there will be a larger group waiting for help – which is on the way between the coroner and the hospital.” Being a place on the road between the caretaker and the hospital when there may be a suspicion of a serious illness is demanding. The patient himself and the closest ones around are insecure and frightened. It's quick referral and a short time before you meet the specialist that's important. Then you feel safe, seen and taken care of, and you are in a process in the hospital. Therefore, it cannot be designated as negative that patients experience waiting time after the first consultation. It may be well medically justified, and it may be part of the further investigation. But the first consultation should not be a greeting hour. The deliberate transfer of waiting time for patients to the hospital immediately after consultation is contrary to the law and should not, of course, occur. That is why we are pleased that the Health Minister has today presented a broad range of waiting times and health cows, and we look forward to the Health Directorate's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2447	I would also like to thank you for a good and detailed presentation and review by the Minister of Health. The representative from the Right, Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen, has also gone through a lot of the work we've done in our three years on guard, so I don't feel the need to repeat it. I just want to link some comments to that. It is a fact that the hospital queues increased and increased steadily under red-green control and reached a peak in 2011. That top was simply formidable. Then I basically understand that this pain for the Workers' Party, but I think it's actually a little sad that the Workers' Party is not able to enjoy a development that means that patients are now getting faster help. That's what I thought was the goal of everyone in this room. I also know that Jonas Gahr Støre said several times that the size of the health queue was not important, that there were waiting times that meant something. I am a little uncertain whether the more than 40,000 who are now not in line agree. I also agree that the time you wait may be the most important thing, but in any case, the size of a health cow says something about our health services as well. I don't think we're just going to germinate out of it, so for us in the Progress Party, it's very important that the number of waiting goes down. That means that less is in the load, less is worried. There has been a lot of talk about internal waiting lists. After hearing the presentation now and reading me a little bit about this with internal waiting lists, I think that there is actually no problem. Rather, on the contrary, I feel quite reassuring that there are such lists, because that means that you have more control over patients who are going through a long run. We've had too many cases where patients have been forgotten in the systems, and we don't want to be erased anymore. The progress party has been concerned with four targets. We've been busy with the number of people waiting, we've been busy with how long they wait, we've been busy with the number of Corridor Asians, and we've been busy with the number of deadline breaks. When all of these numbers go down, they're going in the right direction, this is ultimately the most important thing for us in the Progress Party. But this is a continuous job, and we can't rest on our laurels. We're going to go down further, and we need a continuous focus on the problem. I am very happy that we take a proper review, because it is a bit tiring to have these discussions about waiting lists over and over again, where one suspects and believes that some cheats and tricks. I don't think there's anything particularly right for those who work in the system either, ever to get these accusations against themselves. If we constantly improve the systems so that we can eventually trust 100 percent of the numbers, it'll be the best thing for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2462	Thanks to the government council that comes to Stortinget and does the right thing for this case, which has received a lot of attention, and that is a good reason. When it comes to information that there has probably been a change in health service practice when it comes to patients in line, and that this has not been a willful change by health authorities, the Storting needs to be informed about what is really the background for this. When we learn that at just one clinic in Oslo University Hospital, there are now more than 15 000 in an internal queue, while the official waiting list shows only a little over 2 000, we need to make this clear. The fact that there are patients waiting in an internal queue is not the problem, but that it is here that patients have been moved. What I am responding to in this debate is a lack of memory from the Stortinget's side, which also applies to the Council of State. It is said that we don't know why more patients may now be waiting for treatment and not disposal, but it's not that many years since Stortinget treated Prop. 118 L for 2012–2013 on changes in patient and user rights laws. In this case, the assessment time was changed from 30 to 10 days. This change also resulted in a change in the content, as one would previously identify the patient’s health status before the assessment deadline, while now an assessment of the referral should be made. A majority of the hearing aids were in favour of this change, and the proposal was adopted. But I notice that today's government party, that is, the Right Party and the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party had a proposal in which they asked the government at the time to set a legally binding deadline for lead times after assessment. This is not even considered in this debate. But several hearing aids that time warn against what we're seeing right now. They warn against the fact that a shortened period of time for assessment could lead to multiple patients being given the right to a period of time for distribution instead of the right to a period of time for treatment. The Directorate for Health stated: ‘A shorter assessment period may contribute to the right of more patients than at present to health care in the form of an investigation.’ Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital stated: ‘If you leave the requirement to seek clarification of the patient’s condition by the end of the assessment period and, instead, always be able to rely solely on the referral, it will be much easier to legitimise a practice where you always set the treatment deadline equal to the first visit of the specialist healthcare service.’ The Medical Association stated the following: ‘The Legacy Association believes that the intention is good, but that it may involve distortive effects that really weaken patients’ rights. The proposal implies that patients are more entitled to a referral-based investigation, which imposes great demands on the content of the referral. It would be almost impossible to obtain other necessary information within the short period. Some patients may risk waiting too long for treatment, which will not be found in any waiting list reports as the time limit is met in the investigation.» It was also problematic from the Ministry's point of view that this change in law was entirely dependent on getting good referral routines because the assessment had to be made on the basis of the referrals, and it was carefully described how to take action to ensure that there was good evidence in the referral that did not require all of the assessments to be made after the first meeting with the patient in the specialist services. There were several hearing statements the time that pointed this out with good referral routines, so I'm responding to the fact that not the Council of State at all is within this change of law as a reason for what we are now seeing. It is quite clear from the Stortinget’s 2012 page that if one saw a change in practice, one would put in action, because this was not the intention. This is where the State Council and the Department have failed, so others can discuss who is flinty to run with patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2486	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough review. There is also reason to pay tribute to the Dagens Medisin and to the journalists to run journalism. We need that as politicians, and patients need it, and this is hardly the last grave job that has been done related to waiting lists and hospital treatment. What's clarified in this round, since today's Medisin had these statements, is that it's not a politically wild move of patients. It's been under an insinuation about it. I feel it's parked. Then it should just be missing when a putter puts on more money, that there won't be any more in the system. One consequence is that one can get more on the waiting list. I met the management at Aarhus earlier this week, at the local medical centre of Ski Hospital and Outpatient Hospital, which one must call day-care centers. It's interesting to hear how Ahus has reduced the number of corridors through systematic work in the last year. It was a debate last summer. I thought it was bad when there were so many Corridor Asians in one of the largest and most recent hospitals in Norway, but it turns out they have made an effort. They also say that the local medical centre at Ski is an important reason for reducing the number of Corridor Asians, because those there can offer more day outpatient services. This also means that patients need to move less. Then there is a concern that in this discussion may not have had enough space, but as the representative Wilhelmsen Troeen was inside: the Rufraumtenten have had shorter waiting time, but children and young people in the psychiatry have not got it everywhere. It's serious, and we need to improve the system so that they get faster access to specialised mental health care. I want to turn my attention to Australia, where the committee was on a committee mission. We saw in many areas a nation systematically betting on ICT, also in the health sector, and we saw large floating screens that monitored parts of the healthcare system and where there were bottlenecks. I miss this kind of health logistics for the time being in Norwegian hospitals, that we can work more systematically on it. We were told how they are developing the national digital motorways in Australia, and how the state is leading the standardisation process, but doing away with private development and capacity building. So we have something to learn. It is gratifying that, with the revised national budget, 400 new places of study were created. 200 of them are ear-marked health and ICT. I have expectations that we will gradually get a stronger national infrastructure, and these types of study places are an important part of it. The left will follow this discussion about the waiting lists carefully. There is no goal of moving patients and hiding cows. We're going to get rid of that, whether it's inside the hospital bureaucracy or in the statistical statistics. It is also worth recalling a debate we had here yesterday and a statement in the evening post today on a guarantee of dignity, where the previous government aimed to create 12,000 new places in the health and care sector and did a little over 2,000. It shows how demanding the health sector is to control, but we need to keep getting knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2505	There are three central themes that have been raised in the discussion. I shall come back to the policy in conclusion. The first is the rotation towards more patients being referred to for evaluation instead of treatment. The representative of Toppe’s reasoning is based on the fact that this is due to the legislative changes that entered into force on 1 November 2015. That reasoning falls on one essential point, that is that this change started in 2011 and that change has been continuous since 2011. It may not be that the representative Toppe's reasoning explains this development. It is also the case that the changes to the laws that came into force on 1 November 2011 are precisely contributing to a much greater need for hospitals to plan and have an overview of the patient’s course in hospitals, what some here with contempt call internal waiting lists. There is a good overview of those patients who need a continuous treatment course in hospitals. But we want to know what's the reason why this change started in 2011. It's not sure that it's negative, on the contrary, it can be good, positive reasons for such a turn, but it's going to be part of the Directorate of Health's mission. The second is the moderate increase in rejected patients. This is also something we want to figure out, but among other things. new priority guidance and clearer requirements for the quality of the references may have contributed to it. So to the last moment, it's like people have moved from an open queue to the hospitals to a so-called hidden internal queue. Once the patient’s referral has been evaluated and the patient comes into either investigation or treatment, the patient shall enter a patient’s course. There's nothing scary or dangerous about it, that's the way it is, and it's very good that hospitals have more attention and insight into this, because it's not just a goal to reduce waiting times to hospitals, but also waiting times in hospitals. The reports we have include: from the Health Directorate and from the Health South-East, our largest health company, just suggests that waiting times go not only down to hospitals but also in hospitals. So I understand that this hurts the Workers' Party. When they themselves put in government, they tried to explain the increased queues that this was really a good news for the patient. As the last Minister of Health, Jonas Gahr Støre, said: ‘When health cows in Norway are growing, it is not because waiting times are rising, but because we are able to help more and more, and more people are being referred to. Then there will be a larger group waiting for help – which is on the way between permanent and hospital.” And on the other hand, ‘This is primarily a good news: that we can help more people and that more and more people are getting help.’ Now the waiting time drops, the waiting time drops, and we're helping more and more. Gahr Støre's reasoning doesn't hold. It was an excuse. When this government now achieves these results, the Labour Party is trying to explain the good results of starting a statistical discussion. Let me be very clear: in terms of both the average waiting time and the number of waiting patients, the numbers are comparable over time. This means that the Workers' Party will have to bear in mind that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will talk about – and boast – the results achieved in the hospitals now, both in terms of the number of patients who do not wait, and that the waiting time goes down. That's a good news, it's part of a very clear and central content in the patient's healthcare. When comparing Norway with other countries internationally, one of the criticisms is that too many patients wait too long. We're going to work hard to make these results even better, along with those who work in hospitals, who have made a great effort to achieve these results. The representative, Kjeseth, gave an example from Ahus, who has done a huge job, and I will not, as Minister of Health, accept that this job is being produced as a joke or as a wrong production of numbers. They have done a hard job, and they deserve praise and glory for the results that have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2535	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health on the waiting lists be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2551	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2558	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. But before we get that far, Councillor Bent Höie will transfer five kilos. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e2569	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, by Mr Schou, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, 16, 17, 27 and 28, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 18, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 19 from Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 20–22, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 23, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 24–26, by André N. Skjelstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-14, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Act on Foreign Affairs is amended as follows: the second and third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: A non-resident who is at the Norwegian border seeking protection in accordance with the rules of Chapter 4 or who otherwise provides information indicating that the protection against posting under Section 73 will apply may nevertheless be authorised to enter. The decision to authorise entry is taken by the police and is not considered as an individual decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3664	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the work of foreign stations to inform about real opportunities for asylum in Norway.’ The Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3680	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 26, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking to contribute to the establishment of a common European asylum-seeker reception system with a permanent European relocation mechanism.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to take into account that the requirement of proof and risk for a clear identity in protective matters is set at ‘probably probable’ when drafting a new regulatory provision.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3703	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: the seventh paragraph of Section 62 shall be replaced by the following: The king may provide detailed rules in the regulation, including on the expiry of the permanent residence permit after the sixth paragraph. The king may also lay down detailed rules on the length of an intermediate stay in Norway in order not to be considered as a continuous residence after the sixth subparagraph. The king may provide that permanent residence permits may be granted in cases other than those referred to in the first subparagraph. The king may lay down detailed rules on the requirements to master a minimum of Norwegian oral and passed a test of social knowledge as referred to in points (d) and (e) of the first subparagraph, including exemptions from the requirements. The king may also lay down detailed rules on what is considered to be serious immigration regulatory considerations within the meaning of the second subparagraph.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3729	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–22, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the EU relocation arrangements by accepting refugees from Italy/Greece and from Turkey, in addition to the UN transfer refugee quota.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children detained abroad, against the will of their parents or others, are exempted from the time limit for permanent residence permits to lapse.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the current legislation for stateless children born in Norway, which will enable them to have citizenship at birth or as soon as possible after birth.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3757	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3782	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Act of Citizens shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 16 is replaced by the following: In the case of applicants who are stateless, the conditions laid down in points (b), (e) and (h) of the first paragraph of Section 7 shall not apply. However, stateless applicants who at the time of application have reached the age of 18 must have remained in the State for the last three years with residence permits of at least one year. Residence time during one or more application periods is included in the three-year period. Applicants who have chosen to be stateless by their own actions or omission or who can easily become nationals of another country are not covered by this paragraph.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3808	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 32 new fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: In a crisis situation with exceptionally high arrivals of asylum seekers, the King may decide in the Council of State that applications for protection are to be made, as set out in paragraph 1. §§ 28, may be refused if the applicant arrives directly from a Nordic State. The King of the Council of State may decide that in such cases, the power to refuse substantive proceedings and the power to renunciate pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 17 shall be added to the police officer. The King of the Council of State may decide that in such cases refusal of substantive treatment and expulsion pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 17 shall not be regarded as an individual decision. The provisions of the first to third sentences shall apply irrespective of what would otherwise be followed by the fourth subparagraph. This does not apply to prior notification under Section 37 of the Administrative Act until the King of the Council of State takes decisions as referred to in the first to third sentences.» Proposal No. 17 reads: ‘The government asks to come back with changed deadlines to seek family reunification.’ The right and the right have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3836	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act is amended as follows: Section 9, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Foreigners must have visas to Norway in order to enter the Kingdom, unless the King has dispensed with this requirement. However, a non-resident who is at the Norwegian border and who is seeking protection under the rules of Chapter 4 or who otherwise provides information indicating that the protection against expulsion under Section 73 will apply shall be entitled to entry without a visa, unless: [[asyl]] (a) there is a crisis situation with exceptionally high arrivals, and the King of the Council of State has thus decided that, following individual assessments, decisions may be taken at the border office to refuse the processing of asylum applications; or (b) the foreigner arrives at the border with the Nordic neighbouring country and the King of the Council of State has taken decisions as referred to in the fifth paragraph of Section 32 to refuse the processing of asylum applications promoted at the border with the Nordic neighbouring country concerned. ‘... The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e3867	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 9 new sixth and seventh paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Decisions taken by the King of the Council of State in accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph shall preferably apply for two weeks and a maximum of six weeks. This does not apply to prior notification under the Administrative Act § 37. The decisions may be renewed only once, but once more if the need arises when the size is not aggregated. Decision authorising entry after points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph may be taken by the police and may not be considered as an individual decision.’;» The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4448	The Right Party and the Progressive Party support the whole suspension subsidiaryly. The first paragraph, points (d) and (e) of Section 62, second paragraph, second sentence of Section 62, second paragraph, points (a) and (b) of the second paragraph of Section 66, first and second subparagraphs of Section 90, and the fourth to eleventh paragraphs of Section 92, second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 92, second sentence of Section 92, second paragraph of Section 92, new seventh paragraph of Section 94, points (a) and (II) of the second paragraph of Section 108, first and second paragraphs of Section 18. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4464	It is written in capital letters A, I, § 28, fifth paragraph, § 32, new sixth paragraph, § 34, second paragraph, § 51, new third and fourth paragraphs, § 62, first paragraph, point (f), § 90, third paragraph, § 105, first paragraph, point (e), § 106, first paragraph, point (g), § 106a, first paragraph, point (k). The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4477	It is written in capital letters A, I, § 40, second paragraph, § 41, fourth paragraph, new § 41 a). The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4490	The remainder of I and II and III shall be counted above capital A.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4499	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4508	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. It shall be counted above capital B, I up to and including VI, X and XII up to and including XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4519	It goes over capital B, VII. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4532	It shall be weighed over capitals B, VIII, IX and XV. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4545	It goes over capital B, XI. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4562	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4589	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4645	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4656	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4669	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the extent to which the system of apprehension and imprisonment has been used in the context of the 48-hour procedure, whether it has resulted in less crime and fewer persons without legal residence in Norway and how much the scheme has incurred after the scheme has been in operation for 2 years’ time’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4726	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4735	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e4742	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for an equivalent three-year rule that safeguards the interests of those who change from a job with a special age limit to a job with a 70-year age limit and to report back to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5053	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5062	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5069	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward from Mr Aasrud on behalf of the Labour Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to amend Section 3 of the Permitting Wage Act so that the employer’s period is set to 5 days.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose to amend Section 4-3 of the People's Security Act to reduce working time by at least 40 per cent in order to obtain the right to a daily allowance.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5160	The third paragraph of Section I. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5173	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5182	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5191	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5198	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Michael Tetzschner, on behalf of the Right, Left and Environment Party, Green proposal No. 3, by Hans Fredrik Groevan on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 5, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to come back to the Storting with an investigation of, and proposal for, an amendment to the electoral law that ensures that the list places are given increasing weightings, for example, by a system where the last place is multiplied by 1 and the number of the list voices is multiplied by 0.3 for each place above the list of candidates placed at the bottom, so that a precedence is given before the votes are added.’ [[and]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5227	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a system of cumulation and addendum by rollover elections. The vote supplement for the approved number of candidates shall be 25 per cent by model from election to municipal council. The number of candidates to be added to the vote shall be limited by the number of representatives to be elected from the county. The majority requests that the rules on the appointment of candidates be amended so that a personal vote of at least eight per cent of the total number of votes in the list together with the voting add-on is obtained in order of the number of personal votes received.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5241	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘ 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: § 7-2 Changes to the voting list The voter may, in the event of a roll-call election, election of the county council and election of the local government, voter shall vote in one vote. [[1]] This is done by affixing a mark to the candidate’s name. [[2]] The voters can also vote for candidates on other electoral lists in municipal elections. This is done by adding these candidate names to the voting list. Such votes may be given to a number of candidates corresponding to one quarter of the number of members to be elected to the Municipal Council. However, irrespective of the size of the local council, there may always be a minimum of five candidates from other lists. Where the vote is cast for eligible candidates on other lists, a corresponding number of votes shall be transferred to the list(s) on which those candidates are listed. [[3]] Other changes to the ballot do not count in the decision-making.’;» Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘Articles 11 to 5, first paragraph, the following shall be added: When the number of district mandates for an electoral roll is determined, the county election board shall allocate the seats to the candidates on the list. [[1]] Candidates who are not eligible are excluded. Candidates on the list who have achieved a personal number of votes of at least eight per cent of the voting number of the list shall be ranked in order of the number of personal votes received. The remaining candidates will be selected on the basis of their order in the list. The enumerations continue in the same way until all the designated representative places are occupied. If more than one candidate obtains the same result, the initial order of the list is decisive.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5275	The Socialist Left supports the proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5286	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to come back with a new proposal for amendments to the Election Act § 7-2 and the first paragraph of § 11-5 [[personnel selection by decision-making]] The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5294	It also applies to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5428	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5437	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5486	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5495	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5502	In the course of the debate there is a proposal, No. 1, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal by the Christian People's Party is submitted after the deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. In this context, the President recalls the first and second sentences of Paragraph 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which reads as follows: «Proposals referred to and drafted in a committee position shall be put to a decision together with the nomination when required by the proposer. The same applies to other proposals relating to the same case when they are notified in advance of their submission to the President through the Administration of Storting by no later than 1 p.m. 08.30 on the day on which the case is to be dealt with in Stortinget." The fifth sentence of the first paragraph reads as follows: ‘In exceptional cases, the Grand Duchy may decide by a two-thirds majority to put the provisions of the first and second sentences into effect.’; The President has understood that there is agreement to accept that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is addressed to voting. Is there any objection to this? It doesn't seem that way, and it's adopted. It will be voted on by the Central Party representative. The proposal reads as follows: The Grand Duchy is asked to obtain an independent legal opinion on Norway’s relationship with EU financial supervision and the relationship with the Constitutional provisions relating to the transfer of sovereignty, and on the waiver of sovereignty through Prop. [[2015-2016]] 100 S will be able to create a precedent for future renunciation of sovereignty to other EU agencies and supervision. The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5550	The following proposals are then put to the vote: ‘Document 8:104 S [[2015-2016]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5562	Case No. 9 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5570	Case No. 10 refers to the second processing of the law and to the second processing of the law. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-10.ana.ud1210e5659	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
