ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e37	The representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Gunnar Gundersen and Jan Arild Ellingsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The requested alternates, for Akershus County, Are Health; for Buskerud County, Christopher Wand and for the South-Trundellag County, Ferhat Güven, now takes the seat. From the meeting alternate representative of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget for the remainder of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e93	Olivia Corso Salles is present and will take the seat. The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative. - He won't. Then we will try to find the representative of Audun Lysbakken, who will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e100	Present and ready, President. I would like to propose, on behalf of the representatives of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen and myself, an increased teacher's density for an inclusive common school. I would also like to make proposals on behalf of the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself on admission requirements for teacher training and national guidance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e125	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e145	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e159	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and 5 minutes to members of the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e170	That's when the day has come, and we're going to discuss Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. We're going to renew the promise of knowledge, and it's been a long process so far. It began with the government of Stoltenberg setting up the Ludvigsen Committee, which was to look at the students' learning in the future school. The committee made several inquiries and presented recommendations that were both anchored and had a great deal of excitement out there. Yes, I will go so far as to say that in several environments it was enthusiastic to register. There is a single committee that supports many of these recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee which have also been followed up in the Single European Act. This is and was very much in agreement with the recommendation that it should be cleared up in the curriculum. It's too many goals, and not everyone's connected. Students have to learn to learn, and they have to have better opportunities to go deep on the themes. The Committee proposed themes such as lifelong learning, sustainable development, democracy and citizenship, and that these themes be raised as multidisciplinary themes. There is a single committee which joins many of these recommendations. It is also an overall committee that supports the renewal of the general part of the curriculum, as long as it is the result of building it up under the broad social mandate of the school. Let me read some lines from the committee settings: ‘The school shall contribute to the development of students’ knowledge and competences so that they can become active participants in an increasingly knowledge-intensive society. At the same time, the school shall support students in their personal development and identity development. The school shall also take into account societal challenges related to social, cultural, economic and technological development.’» This says a lot about the huge social mission that the school has. This matter, the treatment and the follow-up, must embrace all of that. I would like to thank the Committee on Structural Cooperation. We agree a lot – that's good. At the same time, I feel that the committee's setting is a correct one for the Storing Message on several points. I'll come back to that. The Ludvigsen selection was set down by the Stoltenberg government at a time when many arrows pointed the right way into school. Nevertheless, it was then and there are still some challenges that need to be solved. One of them is that 30 pst. by students in Norwegian school do not complete or pass five years after the start of secondary education, and many students are struggling to acquire the basic skills early. In addition, we know that many students experience bullying and psychological challenges and plagues. We need to create a comprehensive curriculum that is coherent and that tackles these challenges better than we can do today. Norway needs theoretical practitioners and practical theorists. The working party is concerned that primary school is too adapted to a preparatory course. We believe that the practical skills of students need to be stimulated more throughout the school cycle. There are many good examples of the practicality of the curriculum objectives in math. We must therefore ensure that the breadth of the school's disciplines is preserved now when it is to be cleared up in the curricula. A prerequisite for students to get through primary and secondary education is that they master the basic skills properly. It is especially important that students learn to read, write and calculate at an early stage. The learning ground must be built under this. The Working Party believes that within the basic skills of reading, writing and billing, a level of skills must be defined that all students must be helped up to reach, what we have called a reading, writing and calculation guarantee. Then the curriculum needs to be linked, the school needs to have enough resources, and we need more teachers who can better help students achieve their goals. When we are in the field of basic skills, the Ludvigsen Committee, in its investigation, placed great emphasis on strengthening students' skills in exploring and creating. They relate this to creativity, innovation, problem solving and critical thinking. Many of the organisations in the committee hearing pointed out the need to reinforce this in the big news. The Labour Party agrees. The working party is that we hold on to the already defined basic skills, but that the perspective is broadened somewhat. We therefore want a new sixth basic skill to be developed, linked to the competence of the Ludvigsen Committee to ‘explore and create’. In some specific areas, the Committee is more divided than in others. This applies, inter alia, to: assessment and examination. The Labour Party is, like the Federation of Education, the National Association of Schools and the Student Organisation, critical of the proposal for several compulsory exams in English, mathematics and Norwegian. Good judgment is about far more than more exams. An examination is a single event that takes place over a relatively short period of time, and in which the students are tested in a more or less random selection of curriculum objectives – about surface learning. The government also proposes to increase the school limit for the redistribution of hours from 5 pst. to 10 pst. Like others in the committee hearing, we in the Labour Party are afraid that this, combined with the proposal to introduce compulsory exams in the basic subjects, could lead to an even stronger prioritisation of these subjects at the expense of other subjects in the school. The Workers' Party cannot therefore support the division of the trade in art and crafts. We believe that the government should also strengthen the subject as a whole, both as a tool subject and as a building subject. We often say that the school is the teacher's main resource, and what teachers spend their time on is therefore crucial when we talk about the best management of that resource. The working party therefore considers that a review of the national quality assessment system should be carried out. We need to make sure that this system is working properly, and that the mapping tools do not help us to map for the purpose of mapping, but that the mapping contributes to increasing learning for the students. And when we talk about time, many people have given feedback that local curriculum work takes a lot of time, and that there is a wrong use of time. The Labour Party therefore believes that the local curriculum work as it now appears should be discontinued. Rather, we want teachers to use their time and competence to determine the methods and instruments to be used in teaching. The six-year-olds who started school in the fall will be employed by 2080. That means that the school has to change continuously. ICT and digital skills were something that you thought was going to go over just a couple of decades ago. Fortunately, it didn't. Students need to be able not only to use but also to create digital content and services in the future. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for greater investment in ICT and digital skills than the government until now has provided, and we mean, among other things. all school students need to be familiar with coding and programming. So far, I've been talking just about what students must be able to do in the future. But what must teachers be able to do? The government has proposed a new five-year teacher training. We had expected that by expanding teacher education by one year, there would have been more room for that sector, the Pedagogical Students, the teachers themselves and the school leaders have said that they want more of: more practice and more pedagogics. The Workers' Party therefore supports proposals to significantly improve the practice of the new teacher training and to strengthen the teaching of pedagogics. Then I'm coming to a conclusion, and the end of this debate is the start of the concrete, development and implementation of a new curriculum. The working party assumes that it is up to good processes that are open and that include a wide range of parties involved. Expert groups may mean not only professionals, but also experts out there who know the best of school days: the school owners, the school managers, the teachers and the students. That's really now it all starts, so I'll end up saying that we want each other to be happy. I am promoting with this proposals that the Labour Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e209	The representative, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e214	Report. St. 28 for 2015–2016 is perhaps the most important matter that we in the Church, Education and Research Committee will deal with throughout this process. Through this message, we are both renewing and further developing the Knowledge promise, and we are giving some important signals as to what competences students will need for the future. Not least, I would like to commend the government for listening to many of the feedback that the school has given over time, on what challenges and opportunities both teachers and students face in the future. However, let me start by withdrawing some long lines back to when the Knowledge Lift was designed and implemented. At the beginning of the 2000s, what was called the PISA shock was given a little tabloid, but that actually revealed that too few students in Norway learned basic skills. They have been identified, for example: that every five students, after 10 years in Norwegian public school, could not read and write well enough, and that many thus dropped out of high school because they lack basic skills. That is why the promise of knowledge, which was a work initiated by the Bondevik II government and Kristin Klemet, became an extensive work that resulted in perhaps the most important social reform we have adopted in the 2000s. There were two important elements that marked the promise of knowledge. First, trust in the teacher was to be restored. Before the knowledge promise was implemented, the curricula were very detailed in what methods teachers should use to teach the students. What wasn't particularly detailed in the curriculum was what the students should have learned when the class was over. This was reversed by saying that the teachers had the freedom of method, but it was clear what skills the students would be left with after the end of school day. The second principle was that in order for teachers to have this freedom of action, and in order for the objectives of competence to be followed, they also had to monitor the knowledge of the school. Before the promise of knowledge, there was almost no mapping of the students' competence. The fact that we had quite heated debates at the time on national tests and the monitoring of students' learning can now seem a little strange to think about, because today there is a rather agreed consensus on this. Then we see that the results of the Knowledge Lift are beginning to appear, not least in reading, where the students are now reading more and more. So now we're going to further develop the promise of knowledge. With this case, the Minister of Knowledge adds to a renewal that has been important, precisely because a reform that has worked must also be adjusted along the way. There is nothing wrong with recognising that society is evolving and that reforms may also need adjustments to work. The general part of the curriculum is for example: from 1993, and there is every reason to believe that there has been a great deal of change both in school and in the everyday lives of students. We have become a more multicultural society, a society where information is much easier to obtain, but it also creates new challenges that the school needs to be able to respond to. In this context, I would like to go on with some of what the rapporteur also said. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and not least the case rapporteur for having solved a large and complicated matter through the Committee in a way that has led us to agree on a very large number of the major lines. It gives peace to such an important document, a tranquillity that both the school, the teachers and the students deserve. So we're going to give some clear advice about what skills you're going to have in the future, and we're going to clear up the number of skills targets as well. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that with the philosophy of the promise of knowledge about just freedom of action for the teachers, but with clear objectives, it has become very important to get 'in' cases into place as a separate competence objective. I think it's not just me from the Right who, in this case, had meetings with a lot of people who are to reduce the number of skills goals, but very opposed to removing the'sit' competence goals – just as there are more and more people I've met, who are calling for more and more courses in school, that is. ‘sit’ courses in the school. Sometimes I have wondered if it is enough hours a day to give everyone who wants a new subject, the subject they want. Therefore, it has also been important from the right in dealing with this matter sometimes to say no, not because the intention is not good or because the matter is not important, but not because we are trying to remove the same trap that we are trying to eliminate, namely that we are filling the school with new goals, new ideas, new subjects, when we really want to give teachers and students the freedom and the ability to deepen and pursue deeper learning within some clear competences. The setting is, as I have said, extensive. It is gratifying to note that the government's big message in general is being endorsed by Stortinget. The principles for changing the curriculum are being adopted today. It is also the case that the general principles, including the timetable set by the government, are accepted – with a value-lift. It will surely deepen the representative of the Christian People's Party in his intervention. There will be support for increased flexibility in the hour distribution, but at the same time this asks the majority to bring the government back to the Stortinget, to explain how flexibility can be increased without going beyond the practical-esthetic subjects. For this purpose, subjects who have gained greater support, both in the notification and in the examination of the Committee, are in such a way that it is important not to increase school freedom now. There is also support for sharing the arts and craft sector, but it is an important premise, also from the Right in this Chamber, that it should not be at the expense of the quality of the craft sector. What we don't get the majority for, that is. the Right and Advance Party are not given a majority, is only one case, and it is to conduct the examination in all three common subjects of the 10th grade secondary school. I'm sorry, because I think it would be both fairer and more tidy for the students when they start high school in 8th grade, to know what they're going to do in the 10th grade, instead of sitting in that auditorium, which I think many of us have done, and hope not to be pulled out, to get panicked and read the last two days. But when that majority doesn't come, this isn't a big defeat either. It's a signal from the majority of the Storting and therefore just to put away for this time. Then you have to take a new round after the next fall. It is also the case that the four cooperation parties have agreed to review the quality assessment system. However, let me make it clear that this is not a criticism that we have mapping and national tests. On the contrary, as I said, it was one of the important steps taken by the Knowledge Lift. But it is quite clear that in this case, too, we must always assess whether these tests are correct, whether they identify what we want to see. The size also asks the government to review assessment practices on point of view and examination. In the past, the Education Directorate has also revealed that there is a certain difference in the definition of positions in schools, that competence varies, and that there is a natural follow-up to this. So for the curriculum and the treatment of these. The clear, large majority of the population say that the curriculum work is still going to be done in schools. At the same time, we recognize what many teachers have to say, that this is a very big job for many people, and that the skills are not always good enough in schools to make the good local curricula. That is why we call for more support material and also some national offers to do this. But I would warn against swinging the pendulum the way the Workers' Party is now proposing, that is, going back to national curricula, because it can't be that everything that takes time is a time thief. Some things you do in school, you do because it gets better out there. I am absolutely convinced that between large, national, adopted curricula and the fact that in the individual school, in the individual community, one can develop their curricula, the latter will be the best result, also for the students. That is why it will not have a majority today. Finally, two explanations of vote on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party. We're going to vote for III, even if we don't say it in the mood, which is about the judgement and professional competence of the teachers. We really don't see that as a big change, and we believe that this doesn't go in any direction other than what the big message does. That is why we support this, and it is in many ways a continuation of the important principle of the promise of knowledge. The Right Party and the Advance Party will also vote for VI. As we, along with the Left, have said that we ask the Council of State to come back with an overview of how to secure the practical-esthetic subjects, even if flexibility increases, it means that we also think it is natural that the Council of State should come back with a plan. This will therefore be endorsed by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e244	Will the representative also address the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e249	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e254	The representative, Henrik Asheim, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e259	The renewal of the Knowledge promise will form the basis for students' learning and active participation in our society. This is a long-term work to ensure continuity for both teachers and students in future Norway. The two reports of the Ludvigsen Committee have provided a solid basis for building upon the start of the renewal of the Knowledge Lift. Part of this work also involves stopping and thinking through everything that actually works well in the Norwegian school, while recognising that our society is constantly changing and needs innovation and innovation. The curricula are now to be renewed, so that they better facilitate students to go deep and get a complete and lasting understanding of the subjects. The changes will help to clarify what students are going to learn and make it easier to assess the competence of students. Work shall ensure better in-depth learning, coherence between the objectives of competence of the disciplines across subjects at the same level, better progress and the implementation of cross-disciplinary competences, where this is natural from the point of view of the content of the subjects. In cooperation with relevant professionals, organisations, schools and school owners, it is necessary to develop a strategy for professional renewal that ensures broad involvement and sufficient time for each stage of the process. The Progress Party believes that it is important to establish curriculum groups which are broadly and appropriately composed by teachers with practical experience from school and others with professional and professional competence. At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure that teacher training is involved in the work itself in order to ensure a common anchoring and understanding of curricula. As a longtime teacher in Norwegian school, I am also very pleased that a guide to the curriculum is being developed to support the planning and implementation of teaching by teachers. This is about ensuring equality for students all over the country. The school shall provide everyone with knowledge, and it is therefore important that the system be fair. Students shall not be discriminated against from which part of the country they come from or from which school they attend. It is also important for this work to focus on contributing to the simplification of the assessment work of teachers, while at the same time ensuring that pupils’ needs for clear and learning-promoting feedback are met. A clearer progress in the professional and inter-disciplinary objectives of competence shall also facilitate relations in order to provide a more precise en-route assessment. A very important point in the Communication is also that the Government proposes to introduce an educational-specific part of the vocational curricula in the common fields of mathematics and natural sciences. The Progress Party also notes that the government will consider whether to have its own professional-specific elements of the curriculum in Norwegian, English and social knowledge. As a teacher with practical experience from school, I would like to say that I really hope that the government will now start work on a professional correction of Norwegian and English in particular. We in the Progress Party are also pleased that one of the school's tasks is to manage a national cultural heritage to be shared by all children and young people. Getting to know our Norwegian cultural heritage makes life richer and is a prerequisite for children, young people and adults from other cultures to be integrated and have a good life in Norway. Knowledge will be the main source of competitiveness for Norwegian society, and the Progress Party is pleased with the work now under way on the renewal of the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e274	How do we want Norwegian school to be, what are we going to set ourselves for school, and how are we going to achieve these goals? Our kids are going to learn a lot in the years they go to school, and it's important that they learn what they're going to do. It is important for individuals, it is important for society, and it is necessary for us to maintain the welfare community and develop it further. Schools are about more than basic skills. Children should learn more than reading, writing and calculating. Then PISA tests or other international tests cannot be the only scale we use to assess whether we have a good school or not, because school is about so much more. Schools are about developing the whole human being – people who are curious and creative, people who can cooperate, people who can live together, respect each other in spite of inequalities, and who make independent choices, people who are able to master their own lives, and who are also good fellows and citizens. Schools are not just about education, but also about education. Then we have to make sure that we create a school that accommodates all of this, not a school that gets too narrow and snowy. The majority are making several good and important decisions today. Some of the decisions put all the parties behind them, some of which form an overall opposition majority against the government parties. But that's a lot we agree on. It shall be cleaned up in the curricula and better arranged for deep learning. We need to adapt vocational curricula better to the vocational pupils. Public health and lifelong learning shall be promoted as one of three multidisciplinary themes at school. The practical-esthetic subjects shall be strengthened and the opposition parties shall agree to ask the government to come back with a plan for how this can be done. The opposition parties will also have a trust reform in school, with less detailed management of teachers, and we are clear that the academic judgements and assessments of teachers will determine the choice of methods and instruments for teaching. It is positive that the government parties now also announce support for this. The general part of the curriculum shall be renewed to ensure better coherence between it and the rest of the curriculum. All of this is good, and all of this will be important for the school and the students in the future. But today Stortinget also said no to the government's proposals. We say no to the compulsory exam for everyone in Norwegian, English and math. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of the Federation of Education that this would have further contributed to the greater emphasis on these three subjects at the expense of other major schools. In addition, this would have led to the examination character being a relatively large proportion of the pupils’ diploma, while the stand-up characteristics, the assessment of pupils’ performance over time, would mean less. That is why I am pleased that the majority of people are clearly saying no to this proposal today. The Christian People's Party also opposes the proposal to increase the flexibility of the hour distribution from 5 pst. to 10 pst. This too could contribute to the rotation towards basic subjects at the expense of other subjects. After all, it is positive that the Left has brought the government parties to put some leadership to try to counteract this dynamics somewhat. There are two things I'll mention in the end: The Committee promises lifelong learning as an important theme, and I am pleased about that. Too many young people today have problems mastering their lives. Many experience enormous pressures, many feel unsuccessful, and many are dissatisfied with the way they live their lives. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed the introduction of its own project called 'School Master'. On behalf of the government, LNU has worked on a similar model, and I expect the government to follow up this work even though it is only a Christian People's Party who are asking for this in the setting. The last thing I want to mention is a consensus in the committee that the Christian People's Party greatly appreciates. We've long wanted a valuelift in school. The school shall be an active valuer and the school's value base shall be defined in the school's purpose paragraph. But it is important that these values not only become honorary in a legal text. In the same way that all teachers have a responsibility to work with the basic skills of the students, all teachers also have to take responsibility for actively working with the school's purpose paragraph. That is why it is great that a total increase is now asking for a value boost by better integration of the common values in the purpose paragraph at all levels and in all subjects in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e295	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e301	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e306	Then the representative Anders Tyvand has taken up proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e311	We are currently dealing with an important big message, as several have said, and the background to the message is as well-known the thorough work of the Ludvigsen Committee, which was presented in two NOUs, in 2014 and 2015. The committee would point out what students would need to learn for the next 20–30 years. It's hard to predict the future, but at least there's one thing that's certain: society is changing at a high rate. That is why the sample considered that four areas of competence would be important as a basis for school renewal: maritime-specific competence, but also competence in learning, competence in communicating, working and participating, and competence in exploring and creating. In the debates on school, we are often concerned with professional competence. We all agree that this is important, but the school's social tasks include more than professional competence objectives. The students will become whole people, with sea urchins, good cooperation skills and understanding of their seas, understanding of others and understanding of the world around them. That's why we also often have discussions about bullying and students' mental health. I want to raise some points that have been important to the Center Party, and that we have been informed about in what we have written in the setting. In the work on the message, the Center Party has been particularly concerned with the skepticism we have seen in school in the last 15 years. Since we started with PISA tests, we've been scanning for an ever narrower school. We believe it is a worrying development that it is the subjects in which we test the students who have been leading school development. Unfortunately, the government, through proposals in the message, has tried to reinforce this further, and it is good that the Committee makes a correction. Therefore, it was necessary to point out the influence of the PISA tests and the national tests, which we believe contribute to giving us a narrower school. We also fear that the one-sided focus on the basic subjects will be reinforced into a narrower teacher training. The Ludvigsen Committee has pointed to depth learning as important for students' understanding of the individual subjects and the links between the subject areas. Everyone agrees with this, but unfortunately, in the opinion of the Centre Party, not everyone here in this room has realized that we will not achieve depth learning if we allow international and national tests to lead the content of the school. By focusing on the tests and rehearsing the tests – yes, even for screening tests at present – we do not achieve depth learning or understanding. We train the students so they can respond well to exactly what the tests are asking for. We believe that this does not encourage us to see contexts or to increase students' motivation. That is why we are very concerned that the professional skills objectives need to be reduced, so that there is a basis for deeper learning. In the setting, the Centre Party has placed great emphasis on explaining and justifying why we believe the practical-esthetic subjects need to be strengthened. That is why we have written thoroughly about innovation and entrepreneurship and proposed to re-enter what the government has left out in the Ludvigsen Committee's report on this topic. We are a little surprised that the government has taken little into account the Ludvigsen Committee's focus on strengthening students' skills in exploring and creating, related to creativity, innovation, problem-solving and critical thinking, in the message. This is a little special, as the Prime Minister marined highlighted innovation as an important prerequisite for conversion in his contribution to the debate last week. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has agreed to the mention of this in the vote, but since this was inadequate in the big news, I would ask the Stortinget to be aware. There's a danger that what's left out really doesn't have a real commitment behind it. It concerns the Centre Party – also about what comes in the general part of the curriculum. If the school is to contribute to creativity, critical thinking, innovation and conversion, it must not just be said in words, but it must be felt in the heart. I have included in a number of articles and in my own proposals the position of the practical-esthetic subjects in the school. The centre party's commitment to these subjects is not just about counteracting high school drop-outs and the need to train more skilled workers, but it is about our kids learning to cook and learn to train, and about physical and mental health. It's about public health. The arts and crafts and music discipline is about everything from traditional crafts and design to knowledge about their own and others' culture. If we're going to develop a technological duplicator, we're going to need reliable knowledge in real science, but also understanding functionality and design. If we're to be part of an up-and-coming culture, we also need to learn about and understand music. It makes us whole people. If we want these subjects to be important, the teachers must also be able to do so. That is why we believe that we need to make qualifications for teachers. That's why it's great that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left are involved in promoting demands to introduce this. At the same time, I would warn against going to a more professional school. Our school structure requires all teachers to teach in several subjects. A teacher-based school will contribute to more centralisation of schools, but also to less flexibility in schools. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that all primary school teachers should have one practical-esthetic subject compulsory in their education. It will provide a basic understanding of these subjects and give the opportunity to think more creatively in the approach to other subjects. The centre party is opposed to dividing the trade in art and crafts into two. We don't want students to have to choose immersion in crafts or in art and aesthetics. We believe that we risk two different subjects in this way: one theoretical and one practical. Theory is part of the crafts and vice versa. If this is not the case in higher education and the concern that one has not prepared the students in the practical professions you are afraid of, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party should also instruct all the secondary schools to offer the subjects of work to the students who want it. We also believe that if you are going to have an examination in the practical-esthetic subjects, it is a practical examination that is logical in a practical subject, not an oral examination. We agree with the Ludvigsen Committee's view on how to look at technological skills in the future, and we agree that basic knowledge of computer technology is very important. But when the Storting is concerned with technological knowledge and skills, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to draw attention to the fact that digital accessibility is not at all equal in this country. It can't be that we assume that digital work should be part of basic education, so that we don't take responsibility for everyone having equal access to broadband. This is not the case today – and at least not in Uppland. I therefore ask the members of the Committee to be aware of the cuts made in Nkom funds for next year, so that there is a link between what the Stortinge wants and what the Storinge does. It has also been very important for the Centre Party to help restore confidence between teachers and national authorities. We have called for a reform of trust. That was also what I was talking about in my article in the debate on the throne. I expect that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to come back to this in the spring, but the majority have made important headway today by asking ‘the government to ensure that the teachers’ responsibilities and professional judgement determine the methods and instruments to be used in education in order to achieve the objectives of competence and to fulfil the general social mandate of the school’. With this, we've started the process of giving the teachers confidence back. I believe that the Committee on this position has contributed to a first revolution in education policy following the introduction of the OECD Standard Tests – PISA: from focusing on short-term practice and testing for standard knowledge to an emphasis on facilitating deepening and understanding of links between subjects and areas from distrust to teachers to greater recognition of the competence and responsibility of teachers to determine methods and instruments of teaching from a one-sided focus on the level of competence of the basic subjects to an understanding that the creative and creative subjects will contribute to increased understanding, critical thinking and depth learning and to the long-term ability to entrepreneurship and innovation and thus to change Finally, briefly on the new general part of the curriculum: the Central Party shares initially the evaluations of the Ludvigsen Committee with regard to the general part of the curriculum, but it is regrettable that the majority support the government that this important foundation on which the school's mission is based should not be dealt with in the Stortinget, but only by the government. We believe that a separate investigation with subsequent deliberations would give greater legitimacy to the content of the plan. I regret this and I am excited about the extent to which the government will now follow up and reflect the signals and rotation that the Committee has now done. In the end, I'd like to say that this is a happy day, because we've managed to start reversing school policy. I would like to address the proposals we have with the Socialist Left, and the proposal we are alone on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e355	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e360	No one knows what the future jobs and working life will look like. All we know is that many of the jobs people will have in the future are not yet there. One of the school's most important tasks, therefore, is to train today's students to manage these shifts through conversion and creativity. The work of the Ludvigsen Committee has been well received in the sector – much, I think, because it addresses the challenges of the future. Today's students have to learn to learn, not just learn. I am pleased that the minister of knowledge in the big news has brought with him much of the good Ludvigsen committee, even though he does not draw everything as far as the selection provided. An example of this is the basic skills that are retained, rather than the areas of competence of Ludvigsen. I think that makes sense. The basic skills have settled in Norwegian school, and it's stupid to take them away now that they're both integrated and working well. There are many issues that have been discussed in this matter, and I can't reach everyone, but some of the topics that have been discussed the most, I'll say a few words about. Let me start with the important thing, the teacher. There is a broad consensus that it is the teacher that is the most important single factor in the school. Teacher is the key. That's why everything is related to everything. I am pleased that there is now a five-year teacher training course, and that there is money in the state budget to strengthen teacher training. As the Left sees it, good teacher training must be followed up on a regular basis, and this should be both a right and a duty for the individual teacher, and it must apply to all teachers. Today, it is those who teach basic subjects who are given priority when it comes to continuing training, but in the opinion of the Left, it should be extended. We should also look at the possibilities of making skill demands in even more subjects, both to strengthen education and to raise the status of the other subjects at school. This brings me to some of the subjects that have been discussed especially in the work on this communication, namely the practical-esthetic subjects. If we assume that we do not know tomorrow's labour market, but that creativity and change will be important competences, then the school must also reflect diversity. The practical-esthetic subjects just represent this creativity that we're talking so much about. They represent different ways of learning, and they give students a different form of competence than the basic subjects provide them. I am therefore pleased that a majority is asking for a plan to be presented on how to strengthen these subjects both in the short and long term and how to ensure teacher recruitment. I am also sceptical about the division of the arts and crafts that the government wants to look at, because I believe that this is something all students should be able to do about, and you should not have to choose one or the other part of this subject. I share the concerns of several of the authorities that have expressed themselves in this matter. Several have claimed that this could lead to a deterioration in the practical part of the subject. This is a concern we have to take seriously, because it is an important part of the formation and an important part of what students should be able to do. We will therefore carefully monitor that any changes to the subject do not occur at the expense of the practical part. I have often thought that I would have wished I had learned the touch method the time I had typing as an elective subject in high school, and there are probably more with me who think it's useful knowledge to have. But that's not the theme today. Today, there is a question of whether all schools should offer coding or programming as an option or whether this is something that all students should be able to do. We see in Europe that more and more people consider this to be an important competence, and students around learn this in order to meet tomorrow's challenges and the labour market. The Left also believes that they should learn. This is starting to be so central to our everyday life that it should be part of the training for all students. Another topic that has been discussed in part and on which many hearing bodies have expressed their views is the Ministry's proposal to increase flexibility between subjects from 5 pst. to 10 pst. Many of the hearing bodies have been critical, especially because they are afraid that it is going to go against the practical-esthetic subjects. I am pleased that the government is on the Left's proposal to come back to Stortinget with a model of increased flexibility, but it does not have to go beyond the practical-esthetic subjects. We're not negative to the flexibility, but we can't imagine that it's the practical-esthetic subjects that are affected. It was the Left and John Steen who introduced a common folk school in their time. It's our job to further develop it so that the students are prepared for the future. We want to work for a school where learning joys, creativity and social mobility go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e383	In many ways, this debate and the consideration of this position represent a paradigm shift in the debate on school in Norway. We go from a far too narrow view of knowledge and learning to a broader view of learning that focuses on depth learning and creativity. We go from a often too instrumental view of how to learn, to less emphasis on testing and more emphasis on trust. And we go from too much emphasis on theoretical and traditional teaching to greater respect and recognition for the need for practical and active learning. The big task now is to put what the Storting so clearly ordered into life. The message presented by the government was in many ways an important first step, in the sense that it adopted so much of the rhetoric and the basic thinking that lay in the work of the Ludvigsen Committee, but too little policy was put in place. There was too much old right-wing policy in what came from the government. Now the bulk of the population at point after point makes sure that the policy is also put in place. What this is all about is creating an inclusive common school, a school that doesn't give up a single child. It is very good to say about the promise of knowledge, it is very good to say about the results of it and the development in Norwegian school in the last 10–15 years, but it is also true that the proportion of pupils leaving primary school without a recognised primary school score has doubled in a few years. Too many people get special education, and we see a reality where our young people and our children are characterized by performance pressures, stress and mental disorders. All these are important challenges for us as school politicians. We have to create a school day and a school future that does something about these challenges. I believe that the position we have on the table today points to what should be the new school day in primary school in Norway, with a broader knowledge view, with a greater emphasis on creativity and also on well-being, which it may now be allowed to talk about again in the Norwegian school policy debate. It must also lead to a discussion of time. We cannot achieve this just by changing the curriculum, we must also ensure that there is time in school for all these new elements, time for practical-esthetic subjects and methods – such as: drama and theater pedagogues, along with many other groups, have reminded us of their actions during the treatment of this message – time to physical activity, to practice with teachers, lifelong learning and school food. That's what we in SV call full-time school. But what you call it, it's not that important. What is important is that we clear up time in the future school to what the Greatness is now asking for more, and I think exactly in what direction future extensions of school day are going to be one of the most important debates in the future. Then we need a general settlement with the management system in school. At that point we get a piece with this setting, but I'm afraid we won't get far enough. A broader view of school learning and knowledge is not possible without changes in the management system. The changes that will come into the curriculum will not work well enough if we do not ensure that there will be less of the kind of testing that controls learning on narrow tracks, and if we do not ensure that it will be less of unnecessary detailed regulation, control and target management, which undermines the confidence of the teachers. It is therefore important that it be decided that the government should carry out a review of the quality assessment system. But it's disappointing that there won't be a majority to launch it right away. I find it strange that the Christian People's Party and the Left could not support our proposal for immediate implementation. SV will also propose to make the national samples sample, just to ensure that we do not move in practice through the quality assessment system in the opposite direction to what we are now ordering, namely a narrower school rather than a broader school. The aim of this work must be that it results in a reform of trust in the school, that we can finally respond to what was the theme of the major teacher conflict two years ago: the desire to re-establish respect for Norwegian teachers as professionals and to create greater room for professional judgement, professional knowledge and the meeting between the teacher and the student, which is the most important thing in the school. This implies a renewal of Norwegian school. It's high time, and it's joyous. With that, I would like to address the proposal that SV is alone in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e404	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e409	This big message gives good goals for Norwegian school policy. The renewal and further development of the school and the Knowledge promise are essential for Norway to implement the green shift that everyone seems to agree that we need. But a green shift is not just marginal adjustments of something else that is similar to the society we have today. A green shift is a shift to a society where well-being, economy, production and development take place within the environment of the earth and are no longer based on ever-increasing consumption of earth's resources. A shift to such a sustainable society will depend heavily on knowledge. It will require more knowledge, more ability to develop knowledge and more respect for knowledge than what we are doing today. In this picture, of course, the school is a crucial tool to ensure such development. That is why the Greens welcome a broad consensus that the school should be a learning venue where students get solid knowledge of society and history and how the world is connected. In addition, the school must equip students with understanding of other factors that are prerequisites for people to live a good life in a democratic society. Understanding sustainable development and democratic citizenship, lifelong learning and public health is also important for Norway to remain a country in which it is good to live. Teachers are the tribe of the schoolwork, and teachers must have a clear mandate and a great responsibility to design their education. The Green Party therefore agrees with the government that the content of the subjects must be designed by professionals, while the politicians, together with those who work at school, and those who are students there, must take responsibility for shaping the framework in which the themes and ambitions of the general curriculum are well integrated into the training of all pupils and apprentices. I would like to raise three issues in which the Greens believe that the means and objectives of the communication are not entirely related. It is the examination, educational freedom and implementation of the values of the overall curriculum. Getting involved in new things and solving unforeseen problems are crucial skills. Therefore, in-depth learning and learning skills must be given even higher priority than they do today. However, there is little professional basis to claim that several examinations promote in-depth learning and variation in learning strategies, and that it will contribute to achieving the good objectives of the mainstreaming communication in other areas of Norwegian school policy. On the contrary, like many others, we believe that the time is ripe to consider critically how the assessment system can be developed in response to new needs for societal competence. The Environment Party of the Greens therefore supports the Committee's position on examination and final assessment. It is not the exam characteristics that create new and forward-looking learning in Norwegian school, it is assessment and learning that takes place in good professional interaction between teacher and student throughout the school cycle. In-depth learning and learning ability, sustainable development and democratic participation, public health and lifelong learning are not taught by measuring; it is learned by doing so. But it assumes that the teachers, that is, those who know this, and the students who are going to learn it and do it, have time and resources for it in practice. This means that we need to give time to planning and implementing activities with different learning methods, and not to rush on with exams, measurements and bureaucracy. In the view of the Greens, the content of the general curriculum is good, but it is a challenge that its values cannot compete in a test and paper regime where simple, measurable knowledge alone fits in. We therefore support a review of the general part of the curriculum, but we want today's values and themes to be continued and strengthened in practical learning. It is in the general curriculum the overall and important view of value, under which all subjects are to be supported – not only in the purpose section but in the everyday life of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e426	The rapporteur said that the school must be changing all the time. There's something right about that, the school has to mirror society outside. At the same time, it is also the school's mission to take care of something that is unchangeable, take care of some things that are over time, take care of a core of knowledge, it is the school's educational mission, and take care of a core of education – it is the school's dual social mandate. It is also reflected in the trade renewal proposed by the government in this paper. So this is not a recalibration of Norwegian school. This is a revision, a renewal, an update of the Knowledge promise, a change in school content and framework plans, and also the framework around the school, for which, when it was adopted, there was a broad majority – and that is good – and which was also widely supported by teacher organisations. I have to admit that I do not know it again when someone says that this is a new line for Norwegian school. It seems almost as if you are disappointed that you are not finding the strawman you have set up. But we are proposing some important changes. The Ludvigsen Committee has provided a good basis, but we have not passed on everything the Ludvigsen Committee has proposed. One of the most important things is that we've increased the number of subjects more clearly. We're going to have more cooperation, we're going to have more coordination between the subjects. At the same time, however, we need to base any school reform on where the students and teachers spend their time, and that is in school hours, professional hours. We must maintain the integrity of the subjects and build on the core of the subject. It is now ten years since the introduction of the Knowledge Lift, for which the Right and Kristin Celmet went into the breast. It's time to update the content of the school, it's time to renew the curriculum. At the same time, it is important that we do not throw the child out with the bath water. We must preserve and secure a core of knowledge in the school. I am not among those who believe that at a time when everything is available online, knowledge is superfluous, perhaps rather on the contrary: Just at a time when it is floating on information, a core of knowledge is important. At the same time, knowledge must also be linked to competence. It doesn't just keep knowing something, you have to understand it, and you have to be able to use it too. And once again, this has to be linked to the subjects. There has been a tendency in the debate, for example: a concept such as ‘creativity’ is perceived as almost flowing across the water in School-Norway. But if you're going to teach the students creativity, it has to be in the work on the subjects. That means that creativity, being able to analyse, being able to solve new and unknown issues, will be slightly different in the arts and crafts field than in the history and mathematics field. The goal of professional renewal is better learning and that students better understand what they are learning. We're going to renew the subjects all the time. We're going to have a curriculum that will be a better tool for teachers. We're going to create better connections. We're going to create better progress and end up with different levels of curriculum that don't really give any new or new insight to the students. We're going to cut out and simplify and slim down the curriculum. We're going into the core, the essence, the anatomy of the subjects to make it clear what it is, but also to give the teachers, the school and the students greater opportunity to deepen, to go deep, but also to really understand, if they're struggling with it. It is important to renew also the general part, but not because the general part of the day is poor – rather on the contrary, the general part of the day is a nice written document, which was almost self-centered in the pen by the then Minister of Education Gudmund Hernes. However, because Norway has changed, because — to some extent — our view of what the school should be and knowledge has evolved, the general part also needs to follow. There are some people who have suggested that the general part should be cut down so strongly that it could fit on half an A4 sheet. I fundamentally disagree with that. It's not like everything that fills more than half a page in school is a time thief. In general, a description of the school's broad social mandate and a description of how the school, together with the home and the rest of society, will contribute to the education and development of whole people. We're proposing to keep the basic skills, and I'm very happy that there's a clear majority for that. Being able to read, write, calculate, communicate verbally and have digital competence is crucial to being able to cope with the rest of the school cycle. The basic skills are not just about breaking the read code in 1st or 2nd grade. It's also about how to use e.g. the writing language to be able to express, participate, understand and analyse later in school. At the same time, we propose to clarify which subjects possess the basic skills, and we suggest that digital skills, which unfortunately have been engulfed by some uncertainties, should become clearer. We also propose changes to make the content of the subjects clearer and clearer. Let me take one example, which not so many have mentioned, and it's our professional proposals, to adapt mathematics better and more clearly to the direction you've chosen. For many years, we have had a very successful project called FYR, which was launched by the previous government, and which is about the need for a common vocational education and training policy. Now we take one step further and say that where applicable, we will also have our own curricula, not with lower requirements, but with more adapted mathematics. Our proposal to evaluate and divide the art and craft subject also needs to be read as well. If you go into and look at the curriculum of art and crafts, you will see that there are four general themes – visual communication, design, art and architecture. Symptomaticly, for example, lies. the ability to build and test supporting structures under architecture. In my opinion, as many people remember as a subject, which was very practical, which was about craftsmanship, very many places have become an art subject and an aesthetic subject. It's been specialized in studies, or it's been seen on the subject of specialization glasses. What we're going to do now is look at whether the subject can be divided into two practical subjects – one as a more professional craftsmanship, the other as a subject that is closer to today's subject, i.e. closer to visual communication, design, art and architecture. It will, in my opinion, strengthen the place of the practical subjects in school. It is also important to be clear why many are concerned about the practical-esthetic subjects. One reason is that they represent a relatively smaller proportion of the school day today than before. It is the responsibility of several governments. For example, the previous government increased The math class, we've increased the natural science class. You haven't increased the hours of the practical-esthetic subjects. The most important reason is that the practical-esthetic subjects have weak disciplines around the schools. So there are too few teachers who actually have depression, who actually have education in the practical-esthetic subjects, on which the representative of the Center Party was also involved. This means that the practical-esthetic subjects have a very high proportion of teachers without competence in the subject, and it also makes it easy to breathe. The practical-esthetic subjects are not breathing holes, although students may like them, they are a central and important part of general education and general education at school. Therefore, an important part of strengthening the practical-esthetic disciplines is just to consider introducing skills requirements for new teachers there as well, and then you have to think about how it can be done in a practical way. Finally, a little bit about the process: we politicians and elected representatives are going to put the overall framework for the school. That's our democratic task. But we're not going to sit and control the details, and we're going to do some homework in school. Nor shall expert groups in enclosed spaces do so. I have received criticism from some representatives from some parties that I did not make any further choices in advance in this message, because I am just opening up a broad process to invite not only the teacher organisations, but the individual teacher, the professional, the professionals, those who are concerned about and passionate about their subjects, into shaping tomorrow's school. It's a choice I stand for one hundred percent, because that's exactly how you can make a curriculum that's not only professionally sound, but also has a clear and strong anchoring in School-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e456	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e461	The Committee rejects the government's proposal for several examinations. The Committee does not wish to increase the flexibility of the hour distribution, to which the government initially provided. The Committee will increase the confidence of teachers – a review of the quality assessment system. The Committee clearly reinforces its position on practical-esthetic subjects, creativity, entrepreneurial thinking and ICT. Is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that the setting in these specific areas is so clearly corrected to the original report by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e467	I'm comfortable living in a democracy and that we're a minority government. It'll always be like that. That representation by the representative Thinning Bjørnø gave was not quite accurate. For example: trade-and-hour distribution, government parties have a majority with the Left to see if it can be done in a way that increases flexibility but does not go at the expense of the practical-esthetic subjects. Several of the other proposals to the Committee, I think, are quite natural follow-ups, for example. in the case of returning to a larger plan for the practical-esthetic subjects. We now have a majority to see if we're going to have a two-part division of the arts and crafts and strengthen the practical side of those subjects. Then it is also natural to come back to Stortinget and take it in a larger context. In the end, with exams: it's okay that the majority thinks something different than the government parties. It's not surprising in itself. But when you argue as if exams in school have no effect, you are dangerously close to undermining the examination system as a whole as well. I'll warn the big crowd against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e476	The Council of State ends with this, which is about exams. The installation of the representative Asheim also confirmed the enormous belief of the Right and Advance Party that several mandatory tests and exams lead to better learning. It's an interesting study. For the school is critical, the teachers are critical, the students are critical, the parents are critical, and fortunately the majority in this room is critical. We're going to graduate in Norwegian school, but this is about the extent. Professor of Pedagogics Arild Raaheim has stated that the exam provides surface-oriented learning, saying the following: ‘Our task is not to educate parrots. To a large extent, students with the reproduction of knowledge are driving.’ How does the government’s enormous belief that more exams lead to better learning really justify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e486	There are at least three reasons why the proposals of the government parties make sense. The first is the predictability of the students. This means that you can work evenly, because you know which subjects you want to get into – at least in the three basic subjects of Norwegian, English and mathematics – and not like today, where it is completely bingo. The second is that we have to – and I would assume that the Workers' Party also believes, since today's examination system is supported – assume and believe that even the exam has a learning effect, that the students have to go up to a larger test at the end of the year can increase the learning pressure. It has, among other things, have been researched within, for example: math can know that you want to get into math, give learning effects that extend over time -- in other words, exams can have a function. Thirdly, as I said, it's okay that the bulk of the population thinks something different than the government parties, but when you argue that the exam has some function in Norwegian school, the only logical step is to take the step all the way out to the left and get rid of the exam. If that's what's the Workers' Party's new policy, it's going to be interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e495	I understand that the Council of State believes that the message was not a major revolution in school policy, but the setting is. That's what I'm saying on the basis that it gives confidence to the teachers and not to the principals. It's the teachers who have to decide the methods and how to teach. There is a very strong criticism from a majority on the target management regime – that it provides a narrower school. It's a turn. It is also an emphasis on the practical-esthetic subjects and a connection to more focus on entrepreneurship, which is much heavier than what is underlying the message. That's what they say. Then I thought I would ask a question about this to strengthen practical-esthetic subjects. We have proposed that practical-esthetic subjects be compulsory in teacher training. The Council of State finally said that he wanted to look at the question of the requirements of competence for those who are going to teach in the subjects, but the government parties are not included in the proposals in the voting. How does the Council of State see the need to strengthen the practical-esthetic disciplines if we are not to make demands on those who are to teach, and that no one should have this as a basic element in teacher training – because then we will lose the environment of competence...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e502	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e507	The Communication states that the government is assessing whether we should have competence requirements for new jobs in the practical-esthetic subjects. Now it is not necessary for the Stortinget to promote or vote again for all the proposals. It's enough that it's in the big message, and there's something I'm going to follow up. As far as the discussion on target management is concerned, as far as I know, there is no majority in this Chamber to make the national samples sample, such as: SV has proposed, and as I believe will be one of the biggest backscrapers for Norwegian school in a long, long time. It is, as I have read it, not so that there is a majority in favour of the proposal that we should have a national provision on how many tests the municipalities can be allowed to have locally. You can have different opinions about it and vote differently in local government, but that's something we leave to the school owners. Then there is a majority – and I am very pleased about that, because it is quite in line with what we mean in the Communication – that the new curricula should be based on the same thing as the Knowledge Promise, namely that it is the schools and the teacher who should have the freedom of method while setting the learning goals. It's an important emphasis that it's nice that the Storting does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e518	The Christian People's Party has long been committed to lifting lifelong masters more clearly into school and giving room for teaching that enables the students to master their own lives. It's the Ludvigsen Committee, and it's also the committee that's involved. In the past, the Christian People’s Party has promoted a proposal for a project that we have called ‘School Master’. Then we received a response from the Council of State that this was something that was going to be taken care of in the biggest message. I would probably like it to be lifted even more clearly. So it's like the government itself has taken the initiative to start a work on this, and it's LNU that has done a job on behalf of the government. My question is whether the government is going to follow up and test this out in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e525	I have always been skeptical of «lifelong learning» as a subject of my own. The most important reason for this is that the theme ‘lifelong learning’ belongs naturally to several subjects. Let me give you a few examples: it belongs naturally to natural science and biology, because you can learn how your body works, what are the medical reasons, for example. mental disorders. It belongs naturally in food and health, where you can learn how diet is related to how you feel. It belongs naturally to a subject such as body training, where you should not only run after a ball, but also learn how your body and mind work. It can also belong naturally in e.g. Norwegian or mathematics, where you're going to learn how to manage your personal economy. This is one of the reasons why we have highlighted ‘lifelong learning’ as one of three cross-disciplinary themes that we think should be addressed in the subjects where it is natural, issues to work with. I believe that it will provide a very good anchoring for a much stronger work for lifelong learning, mental health etc. at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e530	In the vote, a majority refers to a Document 8 proposal that has previously been dealt with in the Stortinget, where we asked the government to investigate how the curricula can help ensure that all students receive an offer for a overnight tour, for example. a camp-school stay. Now the government has presented its draft budget, and that's where we see that what I'm saying is a very small section where there's a problem about whether you can use curricula to oblige municipalities to do a overnight trip. It is well concluded in that section that this should be done by law. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State really think about camp schooling and that all students should have an offer for some kind of overnight trip? Does the Council of State think that he has now fulfilled what the Stortinget asked for in the Document 8, where we asked him to do this through his curriculum work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e537	I'm very much for camp school. I'm very happy that most students in Norway go to camp school. I also believe that it is important that as much as possible be included, and that not parents, for example. For some reason, you say you can't go to camp. It's important. And then there's also an assessment in this case, as in a lot of other areas: what's going on in the curriculum of how to teach. This is really at the heart of the question of freedom of method. There are also some who believe that we should make national rules on how much of the education is going to be out of town. I'm not for that. I am very much for outdoor education, but I think it must be up to the teacher and the school – freedom of method – to decide. Making a rule that you should have such a and such a long stay in camp school or something similar, I don't think that should be included in the curriculum. It's a matter of freedom of method. If you want to, you have to do it by law. I believe that today's legislation is working satisfactorily. I believe that to a large extent that many people are allowed to go to camp school, and do not want a law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e544	It's interesting that it's the opposition that underlines the change and renewal in this setting, while the government councils and government parties are trying to push it down. It probably reflects that here there is a large number of people pushing for positive renewal and change, while the government in some important areas is struggling. If we are to have confidence reform in school, as many party representatives have been talking about today – it is very pleasing, because not long ago only the SV talked about trust reform – we have to do something about the national quality assessment system. We can't just change the curriculum. Unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of the proposal to impose such a review on the Council of State. Instead, it is the majority of a formulation to ‘assess a review’ and come back to this in an appropriate way to spring. It could mean a lot of things. I would like to know what the Council of State is doing, and ask him to guarantee that this will be something more than a no – once again – to such a review, which is then communicated in a small section of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e552	The message has a'renewal' in the title, so the whole foreign of the term'renewal' is probably not the government either. But when SV in particular tries to present this as a kind of SV message, it is because SV does not recognize his own strawman, simply. To the question: It is natural that when you have a review of the curricula, you also look at the quality assessment framework. It's natural, there might be things that should be adjusted and changed. There was also something that the Ludvigsen-committee said. They did not propose a public selection or a NOU, but that one should look at it in the light of the new curricula. There will be a little bit ahead in time, simply because I've added up to a pretty open process, which will also take a little longer than if we politicians were to decide everything. But if that's what the Lyssbakken representative is asking, is if I'm going to suggest e.g. the national samples shall become sample samples is the answer to no. I think it would be very harmful to take away a very important tool from us in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e564	In my view, this matter and this debate are one of the most important in the Storting, not only for this committee, but also for the Storing as a whole, and not only this harvest, but in fact also during this period. Every year it is about one year. 60,000 young people out of Norwegian school and into adult life. Gradually, hundreds of thousands of people are going to shape society, enter the labour market, and are going to take responsibility for the country's future. These are the ones that carry the land on their shoulders in the years that come, and what knowledge, skills, values and attitudes these young people have with them are then absolutely crucial to how society is going to be. Sometimes Norwegian schools are spoken down, but measured at almost all international statistics, Norway scores the highest: GDP per capita, quality of life, good country to live in. Measured that way, Norwegian school can't be so bad, because that's where they've gone, all the people who create this good society. The question we are asking, as the Ludvigsen Committee asked in its investigation, is: What knowledge, skills and competences do young people in the future need? From a 20-year perspective – what should the school teach them? What is the content of the curricula at school? The first very positive point is that the majority in the United Kingdom clearly announces that it is not only for future workers that this choice should be made – it should be done on the basis of the fact that these people become good citizens of society. They must have a wide range of competences, which must, of course, function in value creation, but they must also act as members of society. And here's two big misunderstandings. One is – which may have been applicable on the left-hand side – that reading, writing and billing are attributes that are primarily about an instrumental working life vision. But that's the opposite: reading, writing and billing are fundamental skills to also function well as citizens of society, as creative people, as playful people, or as responsible people. It's important for everything. On the other hand, one has seen that the practical-esthetic subjects and the creative skills etc. is more like additional values to be calculated. Yes, they are — they are additional values in many contexts, but they are also core values in future value creation. For example, when employers in Norway and internationally ask what they need from their employees in the future, creativity, creativity and innovation are fundamental skills. It is therefore important for the Committee to underline this breadth and for the majority to state so clearly that practical-esthetic subjects should not be dropped for the benefit of basic skills, but that practical-esthetic knowledge is also a basic skill. Unfortunately, the majority does not go as far as the Labour Party in wanting to introduce this creativity as a sixth basic skill. We should do that, because it's something that can be trained in every subject. Now the Council of State says that there are many who are responsible for the fact that practical-esthetic subjects have received a smaller proportion in total, because we have introduced several math hours, Norwegian hours and English hours, etc., but the Council of State Røe Isaksen is the first to actually cut in this, as the lesson of culture school disappeared, almost without protests and with the support of the supporting parties in the Stortinget. It was a step in the very wrong direction. The third point is that we underline the depth. Having fewer and clearer objectives, being able to go deep in the subjects is what gives good learning. Metacognition, the ability to reflect and think about your own learning, is something that the Ludvigsen Committee underlines, and that must be followed up in the further work on the curriculum. Early efforts and clear targets for what everyone should be able to do in the beginning are also something the Workers' Party has underlined in its comments. So to this with local curriculum work: unfortunately, the Labour Party does not get the majority to say that this has to end. There is almost one slaughter in the evaluation of local curriculum work. In Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, On the right track, the department writes side up and down on how problematic that model has been. We know that it takes a lot of time, we know that there are big differences, we know that it's been poor quality. What the Council of State can't say is why you're going to have to doubt it. What are the benefits of having different skills goals in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø? Yes – freedom to vary in teaching methods, yes – freedom to vary within the curriculum. But give teachers a concrete and simple target management tool instead of all the hundreds of goals, locally and centrally, that create a bureaucratic and time-consuming school. More time for learning and less time for bureaucracy would be a reform that would have really helped the goals we set in this handling of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e581	This proposal for the renewal of the content of primary and secondary education is very important, in particular because the objectives of the proposal will provide more in-depth learning and better understanding. The Progress Party believes it is positive that much of the message is based on the report of the Ludvigsen Committee on the Future School. In essence, we all agree on the importance that equal rights to education have made Norway a country with a high level of education. The basis we give to children and young people, both in kindergarten and school, is essential for us to succeed as a knowledge nation. But at the same time, we have to recognize that no human being is equal, and that we have different ways of learning. We need to have a school where all students are going to get challenges to go after. More emphasis on well-functioning adapted training and early efforts will give both those who are struggling and the highly skilled students better well-being and better learning. We need useful tools that can contribute to better learning in Norwegian school. Both national and international measurements are important tools for school owners, school leaders and teachers. The results of these tests must be used actively, so that over time you will be able to see the development of reading, billing and English skills. However, the party will stress that we must not have too many tests and tests. The Ludvigsen Committee promotes creativity and students' competence in exploring and creating skills with great social value. The practical and aesthetic subjects in the school play an important role here. The Progress Party therefore believes that competence should in the long term be required for teachers to teach in the practical-esthetic subjects. We have now adopted a new and better teacher training. The next generation of teachers will gain more research-based knowledge, more professional immersion and more practice before going to work. The framework plan will then allow teachers to choose the depth of their teaching subjects, which in turn will give greater depth to their teaching. Norway relies on innovation, value creation and the efficient exploitation of all competences. External trade unions — private and autonomous initiatives, which often come up with good practices and new ways, while possessing heavy competences — should be used more in the ordinary school. Examples of these are Young Entrepreneurship, Teach First and First Scandinavia with their Newton rooms. Technological developments are moving rapidly, and the labour market is making new and higher demands on the ICT skills of workers. It is therefore important to invest in ICT in schools. The foreground will underline that the quality and the device of an ICT bet is a critical point. This should not be done as internal work in the Directorate, but in a broad and open process where teacher training, ICT settings and professional organisations are provided. We look forward to following the government's work on this and think there are good signals given in this message. The Party considers that it is important to have a common vocational education and training policy. It is very important to make the school relevant and interesting for students and thus prevent non-response. Those who choose a profession do so because they want to learn a special subject, and then the subject of the theory they have to go through should be in the best possible context with the profession. The disciplines of Norwegian, English and mathematics must be relevant to the course in which they have chosen to pursue. A good professional correction of the common subjects will lead to minor drop-outs in secondary schools and more skilled workers who can go out in jobs that are very much in demand in the labour market. This will be positive both for the professional environment, for individual students and for society, which will increase value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e606	I start with a trust: Being a staggering representative requires patience – sometimes a lot of patience. That things take time in a democracy, have its good sides, of course, but sometimes patience is put to a little too great a test. Many have spoken about the professional correction of the common subjects of secondary education. A separate professional degree in English in a professional field is one that has put patience to the test. In 2008, the Karlsen Committee presented its investigation: Professional training for the future. In this investigation, it is pointed out that we need to have much more professional correction of the common subjects. Among other things, they propose that formal matters such as: examination schemes must support the possibility of vocational training. In the course of the follow-up to the EEAG, which took place in 2009–2010, this was adopted unanimously. The reason why everyone has agreed to this earlier is that the teachers say clearly that if we are to be able to work together, it must be in the examination. If not, it will be very difficult to do it in practice. And we have a common exam in English in higher education for those who are in the profession, and for those who are in the preparatory school, so we don't have a vocational exam. The councils mentioned professional correction in mathematics in their contributions, and it is good that there is more of it, but it is much easier since the math exam is given locally – like the Norwegian exam. English remains, although it was adopted in 2010 – unanimously. Once again, we adopt this unanimously today, and that is very good. But by an incursion, this is not promoted as a Roman number decision. Last December, I asked the Council of State Røe Isaksen in writing about this matter, and in his reply the Council of State wrote that this was an assessment. It is proposed not to do anything about the English vocational examination. With this article, I want to challenge the Council of State to answer what he will do with the English exam. Hopefully, he confirms the introduction of a new exam for the 2017-2018 school year. There's been enough waiting for this now, and there'll be a nice sign that it's been ten years since the Karlsen Committee put forward its investigation, Professional Training for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e621	More than ten years ago, the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Klemet presented what was promised. For those who do not remember it: this created quite great protests from the left side of Norway. Now, a decade later, there is a global political environment that believes that the Knowledge Lift took School-Norway in the right direction. Therefore, it is good that there is now a great deal of agreement about the renewal of the message. At the same time, it's a shame that there's not going to be a majority in favour of the proposal for the change in the ten-class exam. Today, the examination scheme is perceived as unfair to students. It would seem different for students' primary school credits if they come up in a subject they master well, or in a subject they master poorly. The average of written exams in mathematics, for example, is lower than the average in English. A compulsory exam in Norwegian, math and English would give all students the opportunity to have a more intensive training period in these subjects. Studies from NTNU show that this can be especially good for the students who come up in mathematics. In addition, more intensive learning towards exams will be a valuable experience in itself. A modern knowledge promise must also say something about ICT and digitalisation. When the knowledge promise was presented, the schools had their own data rooms, the students used diskettes, and ICT training largely focused on how to turn on the PC and connect to the ISDN line. Data skills are essential in most subjects today. Digital skills are therefore one of the five basic skills to be further developed in the context of professional renewal. Particularly for accounting and digital skills, the main fields of responsibility for developing different aspects of skills shall be clarified. Starting in the autumn of 2016, there is also an experiment with programming as an electoral subject at the youth level. Through this pilot project, the government will facilitate the sharing of experience and knowledge about the use of programming in school. Much is good in Norwegian school, but much can also be better. That is why it is good that we are being given the opportunity to renew an important and correct reform such as the promise of knowledge. We have a broad process behind this message and today facilitates more and better quality in training for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e640	When talking to many of the professionals and professionals, whether teachers, instructors or partners such as LO and NHO, they are concerned that early practical knowledge and practical skills must be given to the students, that not only theoretical skills should be developed, that curiosity about practical work should be aroused and practical methods used throughout the school cycle. The school today, from the first grade and out of high school, is too much put up as a sort of study preparatory race. The academic perspective has gained a lot of space in school and curriculums. In itself, that's not a problem. The challenge is that practical skills, practical teaching, practical aesthetics, have been given second place in many contexts. There is a development of many batches over many years to take joint responsibility for. However, much of this can be corrected by the processing of this aggregate message. For the Workers' Party, emphasising creativity, innovation, problem solving and critical thinking is important, as well as increasing learning for students. The working party is inter alia: the place of practical and aesthetic subjects in the school. Here the majority of people in this room are not satisfied with the message, and we ask the government to come back with a plan to strengthen the practical-esthetic subjects. We're looking forward to that. We also believe, like the majority, that subjects need to be assessed as drama and theatre. It is also necessary to amend the professional professions. It's a bigger debate that we'll come back to. However, the professional correction of the common subjects is an important part of this. The Ludvigsen Committee wrote about innovation skills in future schools — a big word, but very central to business and economic development, as well as the development of students. That is why the Workers' Party proposes a sixth basic skill to strengthen students' competence in exploring and creating. The working life of the future places great demands on knowledge, on cooperation, on problem solving, on finding new solutions. If students are really to be prepared for a working life and a society that needs creativity, innovation and critical thinking, these skills must be integrated into the school. Creativity is not something you sit with in an office. Innovation does not come exclusively from expertise. It's a way of learning how to think that's related to everything else that students learn and do, and then methods are also important. Giving creativity and innovation a central place in school through a basic ability to explore and create is important for students and for future societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e653	The government has high ambitions for Norway as a knowledge nation. Knowledge and competence are a prerequisite for finding good solutions to today’s and tomorrow’s societal challenges. Therefore, knowledge and education are also one of the top priorities of the government. As we've heard here, it's very good in school, but one of the challenges is that we can't mobilize all the power we know that the students have in them. Furthermore, there are too many students who can too little when they leave school, and there are too many who lose motivation and drop out of high school. The News of Storting Facts – Depression – Understanding A renewal of the Knowledge Promise, based on the studies of the Ludvigsen Committee, responds to many of the challenges we see. One of the main concepts of the message is more depth learning. The promise of knowledge shall be continued while improving the capacity for students to enter deeper into the subjects and to increase their ability to develop basic skills. There is a strong consensus that concentration on fewer targets will give students more valuable learning. It's important and right that we now clear up space to go deeper and deeper to enable students to acquire knowledge and gain greater opportunity for reflection and understanding. Another important step in the communication is that the government will strengthen the practical and aesthetic subjects. The communication also provides for a clearer place for the school’s broad educational assignments in everyday school life. Three multi-disciplinary themes that will shape societal development shall be given priority. It is democracy and citizenship, sustainable development and public health and lifelong learning. These approaches will hopefully contribute to a school that makes more people experience happiness by mastering, that more people learn more, and that more students complete and survive. But it is worth noting that the job is not done when we accept this message. We only provide the top leaders, and the government in close dialogue with the school sector and the professionals will provide the framework for the renewal of curricula. And it is worth noting that it is ultimately the sector itself and the professionals who are going to make the concrete professional assessments. Over the last ten years, we have become more aware of the importance of basic skills. I have no doubt that the school needed the promise of knowledge. As a result, the proportion of students with the lowest level of literacy has been reduced from 12 pst. to 5 pst. in step 4 and below 1 pst. in step 5. It is still the case that some subjects, the basic subjects, such as Norwegian, English and mathematics, are central to the success of the students in acquiring basic skills. When we know that a lot of people are struggling with basic skills, we need to keep up the basics while renewing the content of the school. School is one of the most important institutions in society. Whatever the starting point, we want the school to give all children equal opportunities to develop their potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e668	Our children are the most important thing we have. They're our future, and for some lucky ones of us, they're also a small part of us. All children deserve to be seen, have the opportunity to unfold and follow their dreams. Although we are one of the countries in the world that spend most of our time giving children a good upbringing, through kindergarten and elementary school, we see that too many people leave high school without being able to read and write enough to build on their education. Today, when we make an adjustment to the Knowledge promise, ten years after the introduction, it is worth remembering that not many years back before this changed in Norwegian school – then you really didn't know so much about the state and learning of the Norwegian classrooms. The PISA shock, several of which have occurred here today, resulted in an important recognition and a shift in Norwegian school. Basic skills gained increased focus and curriculum objectives replaced traditional school book teaching. I remember very well how we ran through the different pages and chapters of the different school books to achieve all the goals of the subject. Today, we also see how we achieve goals through the common learning objectives that are in the curricula, and then this applies to all students throughout the country. It's been a good change, a good change, that's created a freedom out in the classrooms that makes us get needed dynamics. At the same time, it is important to note that the transition from schoolbooks to curriculum objectives, combined with many good intentions of new curriculum objectives, has, however, made us jump through the curriculum goals instead of running through the textbooks. That is why I am very pleased that today we are going to step out a new course where we are clearing up these many objectives and ensuring greater opportunities for adaptation and depth learning, and also how we ensure teachers and students a better schooling day with a focus on learning. When this is combined with multi-disciplinary topics, which have also been discussed today, I believe that we will have a comprehensive Norwegian school, which takes care of the need for a balance between depth and breadth, reflection and creativity. Equally important, I think it is to point out the changes proposed for the theoretical common subjects of vocational training. After all, industry, students and higher education have long called for these changes, and now we are proposing to take action to make mathematics, science, Norwegian and English more relevant. First out is mathematics and science. In mathematics, this means, for example: electrology is enhanced by algebra, geometry and trigonometry, while food and restaurant science is strengthened by basic counting and economics. This is how we strengthen vocational training in Norway. The time has come to update the content of the school. I am therefore very pleased when we are now renewing the curriculum from the Knowledge Lift and making better provision for a better school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e686	I have to take a little moment back to the quality assessment system, because it is quite obvious that if we are to achieve what is clearly the desire for the bulk of the population in this setting – more confidence in the teachers, less target management and control, a broader learning vision, a more practical and varied school – we will not achieve it by changing the curriculum alone. The change in curricula is, of course, fundamental in order to achieve it, but we also have to do something about the management and assessment system because it too often pushes the teachers' efforts in the classroom today, the whole way the school is governed and the way the subject is taught into an too narrow a track. That is why it is problematic, I think, on the one hand it is so broad about the desire for trust reform in school and, on the other hand, it is so unclear what the majority of people want with the national quality assessment system. If we're going to have a trust reform in school, we also need to have a review of this system to make it work in relation to that goal. The Ludvigsen Committee was very clear that such a review was necessary. The government dropped it in its work on the message. It is a very clear signal that the government parties do not see the need for such a change. When it was then on the committee’s table – and also in view of what is now being proposed by the SV, the Workers’ Party and the Centre – a proposal for such a review to be carried out, as it says, and also that the aim is to further develop and modify the system in line with the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee – it became clear how weak the wording of what is actually being adopted today is. There's nothing on the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee. There is nothing about further development and change. That is why I am amazed, and I would ask the representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party to take the floor and justify why what they are voting for today is enough. I see nothing but that what is now being given a majority is too weak a formulation. It doesn't put any leads for real change. It doesn't even provide the leads for a review, just for the government to consider a review. The government has already done that and concluded with no. It also does not provide any guidance that means that the government has to come back with a case of its own in Stortinget. It might as well be able to squeeze out this whole point through a brief remark in the revised national budget that the government still does not want to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e694	That is why I am amazed that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support our proposal, and I would also like to ask them to explain their expectations to the Council of State in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e698	The renewal of the promise of knowledge, which we are about to adopt today, has created a great deal of commitment. We all know here that the key to developing students' social and professional skills and learning lies in the professional teamwork in school and in the school sector as a whole. The government, as the Council of State says and shows in practice, has great ambitions for the school and our students. Several children need to master the basic skills. There is much agreement, both politically and in the sector, that the objectives of competence need to be clarified and greater scope for in-depth training in the disciplines should be provided. This debate is also very clear. It has been a long time since the promise of knowledge was introduced and even longer since the general part of the curriculum was written, back in the 1990s. This is why it is in place to renew and adjust some of the points in the basic documents and the platform for work in our schools. The aim is that the purpose paragraph, the general part of the curriculum and the syllabus of the subjects are well connected. Today's students are to be equiped for tomorrow's work. They are facing a working life and a social development that is quite different from what we saw when we had our schooling. Internationalisation and digitisation bring not only new opportunities but also challenges that need to be addressed. It is therefore important that the general part of the curriculum really contributes to the creation of an integrated platform, across disciplines and professional objectives. The three new themes that will shape the work of innovation, public health and lifelong learning, sustainable development and democracy and citizenship are linked to important values and reflect some of the major challenges facing our society. I am particularly pleased that the concept of 'citizenship' is being raised. It's a good term, and it's closely related to the old expression to make the students «gang's man». In addition, it also involves participation from each individual. The development aspect is closely linked to the knowledge effort and does not contradict it, which can sometimes be seen in the public debate. Skills, hours, flexibility and the relationship between the practical-esthetic subjects and the theory subjects are important. The same has been true of the debate on forms of assessment. It is not possible to comment on all of this here and now, but I want to make a comment related to the examination discussion. For my part, this is about two aspects. One is related to predictability, the other is linked to justice — or the lack of it in today’s drawing system. We are now continuing the Knowledge promise with some adjustments. I hope and believe that both students and teachers – as well as parents – will have an even better basis to work on, to develop exactly the professional teamwork in and around the school that our students need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e713	I want to comment on two concrete things that have been up there. One is the question of local curriculum work. You don't have to create a completely separate curriculum locally, but you've always had to work with the national curriculum locally. So, of course, the more detailed a national curriculum is, the less local work is. I believe it has several advantages that the Knowledge promise made a change – from very detailed and methodological curricula to today's principle. It makes the responsibility for teaching more visible, it allows the teacher and the school to make good, adapted runs, and it also strengthens professional responsibility. But when said, I think it is important not to make a skin discussion about this. Although the Workers' Party does not have a majority for its rather blatant formulation, which states that there should be curriculum objectives in absolutely all subjects at absolutely all stages, the government – and that is what the majority agrees to – says that it is something we would like to assess, but it must also be a professional assessment. This means that there can be good arguments for, for example: that you should have more curricula at each year from 5th to 7th grade. We're saying that we're going to consider having it after 2nd grade in the subjects that don't have it, and that there's going to be concrete assignments in the follow-up, but that doesn't necessarily mean you have to have it on every level. It must be a concrete, professional assessment. I agree with parts of the criticism that come against the so-called local curriculum work, but I believe that it is well maintained, and that we have found a good balance in what we are proposing. So the representative asks Marianne Aasen – why not do the same for the English exam? I understand that the representative Aasen gets a little depressed when you think about how long it's been. So this does not apply to local curriculum work, but to its own professional part. We also propose that, in practice. The reason why we started with mathematics and science is that there have been peer reviews that recommend, after we have explicitly asked, that you have to have your own curricula for the various professional programmes, i.e. adapted curricula. You have to have your own curriculum if you're going to have your own exam. We write on page 53 that when you get a professional review in Norwegian, English and social knowledge, they will also ‘assess the need for professionally-specific parts of these curricula’. That's what opens up for you to have your own exam. I'm very attached to it. There are some problematic aspects there, because it must be consistent across all the different courses, regardless of what you choose, so that you can for example: be able to build on and move on to higher education. I think it's a good idea to do that, but I think – again – that it's a good idea here too that the professional follow-up process takes this, not that we push the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e726	Making demands on teachers has become a brand for the government we now have. We've got a math requirement to get into the teacher training that we're already seeing leads to some candidates not coming in. We miss candidates who have a dream of becoming teachers in practical aesthetics, becoming history teachers, Norwegian teachers, etc., but who don't come in because they're not good enough in mathematics. We have also gained increased skills requirements for teachers who have worked for a long time in school, and in a few years we risk seeing that experienced teachers no longer have the opportunity to continue their jobs. But where there is now a real need for a level of competence is within the practical-esthetic disciplines. When 70 pst. of the teachers under 30 years of age who teach in these subjects, do not have a study score in the subjects, there is a need to do something if we are serious about raising the practical-esthetic subjects. Then it is good that the government will consider introducing skills requirements also to teach in these subjects, but I would like the government parties on the Stortinget to also be involved in supporting the proposal that is being promoted today to introduce this. We had then given a clear and clear signal from Stortinget that this is something we want. Then the representative Tingelstad Wøien challenged the Christian People's Party to support a proposal to introduce employment as a mandatory offer in all schools with youth. That proposal is not promoted in the position we are discussing today. The Christian People's Party has supported it before, and we like to back it up again. With regard to a review of the quality assessment system, it is clear that we have a expectation that the Council of State will take the signals from the Storting seriously. It is not enough with the assessments we have received in the settings we are handling today. Then we had not asked for a new review. What we are asking for is a review of how assessment systems can better facilitate students' learning, and I have expectations that the Council of State will follow it up. Finally, I want to say something about the general part. It was in the last growing-up period that the majority asked for a general review. When the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal that it should be dealt with politically in the Storting, it is simply a matter of cleaning up in relation to the division of labour between maggots and governments. At the same time, I would like to underline the leadership that Stortinget is now providing for the renewal of the general part. I would recommend to the Council of State to involve representatives both from the school sector and from the professional community, so that this is done in a thorough and proper way. Should the Council of State not deliver according to the expectations there, one could risk that it will happen again, what has happened once before, that the Stortinget will also take action on regulations and take that matter to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e740	We could probably have had a long debate on whether it is an update of a renewal of the knowledge promise or a turnaround of school policy. It is a good thing that the Council of State does not see that it is a turn, but that is actually it. The biggest change is that there are actually several of the government parties that have gone into part of the review that reinforces what the Ludvigsen Committee has done. I'm very happy about that. I am also very pleased – and I think in a way is a little new – that there is a majority who join the criticism of the PISA tests and the national tests as one of the reasons for aligning education and a narrower understanding. It's new, and I'm glad that there's a growing concern in our country about whether there's too much testing in school, and I'm glad we're going to get back to it. I think there's a little concern that somehow there'll be some kind of double communication, or a double significance, by the fact that many of the proposals made by the government in the message will lead to a narrower school. These include: on the 10th stage examination combined with flexibility, while maintaining both PISA and national and screening tests and not prohibiting local samples. Then we actually don't get the depth learning we want, we mean, because then it will be the focus on achieving good results on these tests. Then I had to look up a little extra to see if I had read completely tearing wrong about what I said in my reply with the council, but there is not much about practical-esthetic subjects in the message. It is a part of it, and of course it is also a concern, but in my view it is the most focused on the particular field of art and crafts. Food and health and music may not be much mentioned. That is why the Committee has also chosen to reinforce this, and it is not without reason. It is to try to contribute to a better balance between basic and creative subjects. The message states that the government wants to assess whether ‘for new teachers, in more subjects than today, competence requirements are to be introduced’. That's good, but we mean, like the representative Tyvand said, that we could have set expectations today that we want to make the requirements of competence for those who are going to teach in, for example. food and health or in the arts and crafts. That's where the skills of those who teach are really bad. I'm worried that the skills environments in teacher training are disappearing while we wait. This year, 58 people applied for vocational training in the arts and crafts sector – 58 in total in the country is not much. When you look at food and health and music, it's even worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e754	Thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e757	It was actually in an attempt to sum up the debate that I went up to the pulpit now, but the list is getting longer and longer, and that's to some extent good, because this is one of the most important things that we're dealing with in our committee during this big period. The debate so far clearly shows that there is a great deal of excitement about the ideas of the Ludvigsen Committee that it must be cleared up in the curricula, that there is a need for fewer curriculum objectives, and that we are facilitating deeper learning in a better way than what we are doing today. Cross-disciplinary themes – sustainability, lifelong learning and democracy – are also widely agreed to be implemented. But then there are several aspects of this big message that have not been adequately highlighted and on which the Committee has chosen to focus extra attention. There have been more people in the debate. KS mentioned it in the hearing. Recordings on creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship, creating and exploring and critical thinking are almost not mentioned in the Communication. This is reinforced in the committee setting and can thus be called a correct one to what was originally presented in the notification. A correct one is also on the second team. This is true when we talk about increasing the flexibility of the trade and hour distribution, of the subject of art and crafts – it is a large part of the committee that is skeptical about sharing the subject of art and crafts – and it is also true when it comes to trusting teachers. I feel that in this debate, the government parties devalue part of these things. I feel that the government parties are debatable that the committee setting means a change from the big message, and I would warn against that. It is a clear expectation linked to the majority comments in the committee's position that are about strengthening the practical-esthetic subjects, which are about facilitating more innovation, competence and entrepreneurship, which are about strengthening the teachers' competence in the practical-esthetic subjects, and which are about ensuring that there are no more exams in Norwegian school, not because we are opposed to exams as an assessment form, but we do not have any good arguments either from those who have shoes, teachers and students, or from research that we should have even more exams than we have today. And that's a little bit of a point when you talk about exams: it's zero problem to spend 65 million dollars. kr to increase the number of exams in Norwegian school, but it is very easy to remove support for 600 teaching positions in secondary school. It is a view of priority that the Workers' Party does not share.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e769	I have to admit that I was a little surprised at the answer from Torbjørn Røe Isaacen. I expected that he would just sign out and confirm that it is now a reality with a separate degree in English in professional science and a separate degree in English in study specialization. Of course there are arguments against it. There are arguments for and against most of the issues discussed here, and finally a conclusion is drawn. And the whole of Storting has agreed that we are asking the government to add up to "a new exam scheme for English". That's what's in the setting, and then there's no room for evaluating this. Then it's a marshmallow, as I read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e773	A little bit of time: those who first proposed this, started in the first grade, are now going to apply for secondary education in the spring – whether they are going to start in the professional field or whether they are going to start specializing in the study – and then nothing has happened on this particular point, which everyone has agreed on all along. If professionals are sitting and listening to this debate, they must start to question the effectiveness of politicians in general, but also, in particular, of this government – it will now have to reconsider. There is too much assessment of things that we agree with, in my opinion. So there can quickly be politician contempt in the wake of this, and I wish I hadn't had to say that. But there's clearly a need for us to make a Roman decision about it, so that the Storting can verify that the government is following the Storting. And the Council of State can be sure that the Workers' Party will submit such a proposal on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e776	It seems that everyone here will have clear qualifications in school, but finding out if the students actually reach these goals is not as important. The party of progress is blaming the criticism of the number of tests in today's school, because it's actually the way the government has taken away a national test instead of increasing the number, as it might sound like you've done. There is also a strange argument when the centre party argues against screening tests because then one concentrates on rehearsing these samples. So when you're going to have a mapping test in reading, you're going to practice reading, but it's going to be wrong for the center part. However, the Progress Party believes that there is one instrument that helps, in particular, to increase competence in an area, such as: reading, and it's practice. This will ensure that students have better skills in this area. The Progress Party has also noted that the Workers' Party in this message has a comment in which they believe that reading, writing and billing must define a level of skills that all students should be helped to achieve, i.e. a read, write and calculation guarantee. But how do you imagine that this is actually going to be done, given that you're not going to test the students at what level they're actually at, and you're not going to test them to see if these skills are actually achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e787	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e792	A final comment on the trust reform: I wish the representative Iselin Nybø had signed up, in the same way that Anders Tyvand, to clarify what is the expectation of this order. Tyvand was clear that he expected the signals to be taken by the Council of State. One could then notice that it would have been easier to guarantee this by voting in favour of SV's proposal, which had received a majority if the Christian People's Party and the Left had supported it. But I also want to ask the Council of State to redraw, because we have not received a clear response to what is the plan of the Council of State for this assessment of the quality assessment system. I fear, as this proposal is formulated, that it is tailor-made for the Council of State to just put it in the drawer and then sign it out with a brief comment in the revised national budget. That is why I want a clarification from the Council of State on how he intends to make this assessment, and a guarantee that this will not only be a new no when we get to May and it is too late for the Storting to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e799	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e805	I think everyone agrees that when you're going to have a target management system, you have to check in a way that you achieve the goals you want to achieve. But that's the amount of this we're critical to. As I pulled out in terms of what Sandaune's representative said about screening tests: it's when we start to practice the screening tests, that it's starting to get really bad. It is because the municipality has set a target that no one should be below the critical limit in reading. So practice on the screening test to make up for a screening test. What kind of trust is that to the teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e809	That is precisely why the point that we have written about is that the government should ‘ensure that it is the responsibility and professional judgement of the teachers to determine the methods and instruments to be used in education in order to achieve the objectives of competence’ is so important. Because then the school owner won't be able to get in the way that we've seen examples of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e814	I've been challenged on two very concrete things. Let me take this with the quality assessment system first: when there is a majority in Stortinget asking for a review of the quality assessment system, and I say that it is also natural to do so – the Ludwigsen Committee says that it is natural to look at the quality assessment system in the wake of the changes in the curriculum – that means that we follow it up. It doesn't mean a section where it says that we're not following up. That means it's being followed up. However, there is probably no consensus among the batches here as to what this quality assessment system should contain. It is not that SV has thus obtained a majority for all parts of its policy, e.g. on national samples. It is possible that the majority will change. I mean it will be very serious. But by today's date, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e818	So, the question of exams -- actually, in English. That's when something happens, I have to say first. Now we're taking the step, because now we're saying, well, we want curriculums with specific subjects, which, once again, are the starting point for our own exams. The message says on page 53 that we're doing this first in mathematics and science, because there we've had peer reviews. Then we say we're also going to give this to the trade unions that are going to work on. The reason why the process has been set up in this way is precisely that we should involve the profession and the trade unions, and that politicians should not make all the detailed decisions here. But I'm very happy that we're doing what we're saying in this message – so, I'm very sorry that we're going to have professionally-specific parts. Now I don't remember the words in the specific remarks about this, but I notice that the bulk of the population is very clear – as I understand it – that you want this to happen in English as well. Social skills and Norwegian skills are then assessed. It is a clear and clear signal with which I have no problems, and which I also take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e821	The representative Lightbakken refers to the representative Tyvand, who says that he assumes that the Council of State takes the signals that appear in the settings, and asks me to say the same thing. I consider it a matter of course that the Council of State is following up on the wishes of the Stortinget and that the Stortinget expresses in the vote. So I think it should initially be completely unnecessary to clarify, because that is a completely natural part of a Council of State's responsibility. Once I'm up here, I'll take the opportunity to thank you for a good debate. That's the way it is when we have a debate that goes out a little bit in time, that we end up discussing the few things that we actually disagree about, and the details of what we disagree about. But if we raise our eyes a little bit and look back at the beginning of this debate, now we're making some decisions, we're making some changes that are generally very well received in School-Norway. I feel that we have a teaching mind, that we have actors out there who are very pleased with this process and with the decisions that are being made now. So we can always discuss how much we change. Are we changing at all? Do we change it a little bit? Do we change a lot? I believe that we are changing, and it is of course Stortingen's job to draw a case in the direction that Stortinget wants us to go in. I really think this has been a good thing. I am pleased that we have reached such a broad agreement on much of what has been presented today, and that the Storting has chosen to enter and change. So I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State follows up the changes made by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e831	I also agree with Mr Nybø that there has been a good debate and that there is a broader consensus on school policy now than it might have been a few years ago. Nor is it so strange that there is a rather broad consensus, because the Knowledge Promise was designed by the Search Committee, the message was designed by the then Bondevik government, and the curricula were initiated by the Stoltenberg government. So here we all have responsibility and guilt. And it's interesting to see that every time the PISA results go up, everyone jumps in line to say that it was the ones behind the Knowledge Lift, and every time they go down, everyone says no, it was the others who made it -- we've been on it, everyone. That's why I think we can also agree to be critical of what doesn't work. What is a very clear feedback in the evaluations is that the Knowledge promise has contributed to too much local bureaucracy, local curriculum work has become very extensive. So there was nothing in the Söknen-committee or in the big news that meant that you should have curriculum goals only for the 2nd, 4th, 7th and 10th classes; this was done in the department on the initiative of, I suppose, political management. This has led to a lot of extra work. The Directorate provides guidance on local curriculum work, provides revised guidance on local curriculum work, and the evaluation shows that this has given great differences and has had little educational value. Of course, you have to operationalise your goals and design your curricula, but sitting and making comprehensive curricula at each school is a pointless use of time. The second is that at least the red-green parties are disappointed that they are no longer moving in the direction of the Ludvigsen Committee, in the approach of Ludvigsen to these four areas of competence: professional competence, competence in learning, competence in communicating, interacting and participating, and competence in exploring and creating. Now some of this can be corrected by the work on the general part, and the Council of State talked about strawmen – he probably constructs himself a strawman when he says that someone will have a general part on just half a side. But we have to assume that here we have also helped to create a vortex of goals. We have vision, we have a general part, we have principles for training, and we have the learning poster, which together make up a lot of goals, together with the curricula and local curricula, national tests and international tests, and like municipal goals, action plans and many other things. What happens when you get so many goals is that no goal becomes important, because you can't depend on so many goals at the same time; you have to clarify and simplify.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e839	Finally, all this is about having resources for implementation. We need good teachers, we need a lot of teachers, we need least of everything cut in the number of teachers, as the government suggests in its government budget, and we also need to do something about recruiting the teaching profession. There has actually been a rather dramatic decline in the search for teacher training during this government. That's the last thing we need. We need young people who want to go into school, who have good working conditions and resources to meet these amazing goals that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e842	Before this debate was some of us who have been involved in the debate now, in the Eidsvollsgallery and played the games that have been developed and that were quite funny. The big game should have played the whole committee, because when red-green representatives go up here and say that in the big picture there is an attitude promoted, the big picture meets with organisations, you make proposals, you agree on large, important parts of the message, it's not a correct one, it's not a defeat, it's the way democracy actually works. And I have to say I agree with the representative, Nybø, who said that this debate started so well. Then there was a kind of pre-postage infection in which one tries to give the impression that any change in the message that the Stortinget is about to deal with — a difficult message, very important for Norwegian school — is a defeat. It is not, it is responsible for democratic work. We're the elected ones, so we do that job too, and this is the result we've come up with now. As the representative Giske was a bit interested in – and I actually quite agree – the Knowledge promise was developed under the Bondevik II government and implemented by the Red-Green Government. So in the eight years there were some disagreements about what was going to go in and out, etc., but the fact is that this is a term in the further work. This is a further development, the renewal of the promise of knowledge that was adopted at the time, the adaptation of some of the content that makes it possible to take over a new period of time. It may be that the freedom of action on the one hand also led to too many objectives of competence on the other. That's why both the Big Bang and the Big Bang today say that it's right to clear the skills objectives, so it's clear what students should actually be able to do. In the final analysis, when it comes to the local curriculum work, the Committee does not reject the Workers' Party's proposal that this should now be done nationally, but rejects the feedback from many teachers that it may become too extensive. Some schools also report back that the competence in school may not be good enough to do all that work. That is why there is a very large majority in the Committee in favour of more support material, better follow-up. But the reason why we refuse to do this nationally is because I have a huge faith in, and it also has the clear majority in the committee, that in individual schools it must be done very important basic work. Out there the teachers know their students, out there they know the challenges in their school – there are schools with very few students, there are huge schools here in Oslo with several thousand students. And the fact that you can do that work out, but give good support material, I'm sure I'll give a better education for the students, and that's why we don't support the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e849	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e854	I really don't understand the argument from the Right in this case, because there's going to be common competence goals at 2, 4, 7, and 10 steps, as it is today. But then you have to do your own local measures of 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, and 9. Why you have to have different degrees of competence at the 8th level in mathematics in Drammen and Drabak, is completely incomprehensible, also why you have to sit at each school and make these goals of competence. It is time-consuming, bureaucratic, creating greater differences, and the students in any case need to achieve the same objectives at the next stage. So the diversity of students who are going to have different goals, obviously applies only at some of the steps up. What we should do is to make simple, clear objectives of competence at every stage where it is needed, or at every other stage, if that is what is needed, or at every third step, based on what is needed, and then give the teachers and the school full freedom to teach, use methods, see their students, operate, vary – like to deviate, give freedom to it – but have a common plan that is simple and concrete. That's what the teachers are asking for. Now maybe there's a new government going to implement this, and then I think we're going to take the advice from the teachers seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8675	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Henrik Asheim on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 6, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-10, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 12, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how changes in the professional and hourly distribution can better meet the future’s competence needs.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8718	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of the local practical exam in the fields of music, art and crafts, body training and food and health as a draft subject after the 10th stage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8735	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no local requirements for monitoring and documentation can be imposed in addition to those required by the regulations of the Training Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8752	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out national samples as sample samples.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a requirement for one practical-esthetic subject as compulsory in primary school teacher training.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8776	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for the introduction of skills requirements for teachers to teach in practical-esthetic subjects.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8796	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a proposal to introduce a 6th basic skill to strengthen students’ competence in exploring and creating. Creativity, innovation, problem solving and critical thinking must be the main components of the new basic skill.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8813	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of the national quality assessment system and return to Stortinget with a plan for the further development and modification of the quality assessment system in line with the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee. [[NKVS]] The plan shall take care of the school’s broad knowledge, build on the confidence of teachers and facilitate increased professional space for action.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate an open and inclusive process for the design of a renewed general part of the curriculum, and then to present the matter to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start the process of professional renewal in the disciplines rather than in the individual disciplines and to guide the four areas of competence proposed by the Ludvigsen Committee.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a matter of how the practical part of teacher training can be significantly strengthened in addition to the government’s proposals in 110 days’ time’.» The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8847	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a system of increased flexibility in the national hourly distribution that takes account of the practical-esthetic subjects.’ The President has reason to believe that this is going to be a sharp vote, and therefore makes it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8937	It's going to go over I first. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8951	It shall be counted against II. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8965	It's over V. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President would draw attention to the fact that this is also a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8981	It shall be counted over VII, X and XIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e8995	It is added over XI. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e9010	It shall be counted over III, IV, VI, VIII, IX and XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-11.ana.ud214e9052	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
