ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e101	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate from the West Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, is now taking the seat. An application for sickness leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representatives Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Marianne Marthinsen, both from 2 June and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the county of Nordland: Tor Arne Bell LjunggrenFor Oslo: Inger Helene Vaaten, Vegard Grøslie Wennesland and Prableen Kaur
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e143	Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren and Inger Helene Vaaten are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e159	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e166	The case concerns broadband communications in the north, and it is a matter that is important from a north-eastern perspective. 80 pst. maritime traffic in the Arctic takes place in Norwegian waters. At the same time, it is important for sovereignty enhancement, research, climate and environmental monitoring and search and rescue operations. Last week, Arctic parliamentarians met in Bodø, and search and rescue was one of the themes of the meeting. We were also inside the main rescue center and received a very good briefing on search and rescue in the Arctic. Broadband communication was one of the issues that was raised there, and you see the need and importance of strengthening it. It is not only important for search and rescue, but as shipping is increasing, and there is an increasing need to look at the situation in the Great Arctic, this was raised especially as one of the themes. There are really well-founded needs underlying this matter, and the letter from the Minister of Industry to the Committee is positive. The department has also seen the need to find a solution. That's very good, and it supports the committee. The Committee is very positive about finding solutions. The only point of disagreement is the further progress in the matter. The Minister of Industry points out that there is a need for a draft selection investigation before going to the acquisition. The Labour Party and the Centre believe that we can proceed even more quickly in the case, and have a proposal that points out that a decision should already be taken which states that: ‘The government is asking the government to propose how broadband communications can be effectively ensured in the Norwegian part of the northern regions and that this is followed up with the necessary equity reserves by 2017 at the latest’. As I said, the Committee agrees on the needs and sees that it is important to find solutions. I then submitted the matter on behalf of the Committee and put forward the proposal which the Central Party and the Labour Party are behind in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e184	The representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e187	Through the representative proposal, the Labour Party takes on a very important challenge in the Nordic region – a challenge that will only grow bigger and bigger in the coming years. The representative proposal makes a big difference between the south and the north of 75. It is a cross-political agreement that we must take care of and develop our interests in the north. For the Labour Party, it is also clear that we must intensify our efforts on the seas in the future. Norway's largest natural resources are found in coastal and marine areas. In terms of land, these areas make up seven times our land, and they contribute to significant value creation. We've probably just seen the beginning of what our oceans will be capable of giving us of possibilities. Large and important parts of these sea areas are north of 75 degrees. In order to recover from these areas in a good way in the future, good data communication will be important for a number of different sectors. Yes, it'll probably be an arrangement to make new findings and create new opportunities in the oceans. While the solutions to this problem for a relatively short period of time were expected to be largely financed from the public budget, there is now clear evidence that user funding will be able to cover whole or large parts of the investment. For this reason, the representatives of the Labour Party have put forward a proposal that initially invited the government to set up a flexible process on how to implement such a project. However, we of the Labour Party, who here are proposers, are disappointed that the answer from the Minister of Industry is to launch a concept evaluation, KVU. On the one hand, we should perhaps be happy that the government party and their faithful supporting party Left and Christian People's Party in the setting so strongly underline the need for thorough distribution, and the KVU Institute is a useful tool for the state to choose the right investment projects. But we're not going to figure out things that are already mapped and clarified. In 2013, the Ministry of Economic Affairs sent a letter to Norsk Romsenter, where the space centre was given the task of issuing different concepts to resolve, among other things. The challenge related to the 75th degree of latitude. In June 2015, the Norwegian Space Centre completed a report which concluded that it would only be through a Norwegian lease of special satellite launch that such broadband demand could be satisfied. So, as the Labour Party understands, our leading trade union body in this area has concluded on the main direction of the solution. It is a solution that will be largely realised with user funding from service users. Although I should also commend the Minister of Industry for sharing our commitment to this matter, I find it disappointing that in this case there is a lack of some of the action force. We now have a possibility to start a process that will take several years anyway. We can seize this opportunity, which will help to facilitate future value creation in this important strategic area for our country. So I'm disappointed that the bulk of the population is not now involved in grasping this possibility of continuing to build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e204	Broadband is an increasingly important infrastructure in our society, and it is a key to future well-being and growth. This matter shows a great deal of commitment around finding solutions for better communication. I will first of all be allowed to thank the case spokesperson for a good job. So I would like to point out that I see it as positive that the proposers are involved in the North Region's communication facilitation initiative. The proposers point out that there is a cross-political consensus that the Nordic regions are very important within the security policy of Norway and foreign countries. The Northern Region initiative covers a wide range of sectors and is an important policy of interest both at regional and national level. At the same time, there is still growing interest in the north and the Arctic, including from other countries. It's important that Norway maintains and further develops the commitment that is there, but then we need the relevant means to do this in a good and efficient way. Digital communication will be central to meeting the challenges and maintaining the activity. The proposers indicate that they are aware that the capacity of the existing system will be further developed, but they feel uncertain as to whether it will meet the forthcoming communication needs of the North and Arctic regions. Satellite broadband has been tested and proved successful, and using multiple satellites can achieve stable solutions here as well. The right, together with the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Left, has pointed out that we believe it is important to find a good solution to the challenges of broadband communications in the North, and that the decision on state involvement in a satellite communications system must be made on the best possible basis. We think it is very unfortunate to advance the preferred concept or possibly also the assignment points at the front of a KVU. Space Norway is one solution, and that's this Workers' Party has pointed to, but there's only one possible concept to satisfy this communication need. We see it as reasonable that the state will first be allowed to define its own needs. In addition, we mean that the uncertainty factors in the estimate of the total cost indicate that it is wise to implement a KVU. I look forward to the further work of the government in this matter, and I look forward to a quick start and an effective implementation of the KVU work. This will ensure both a rich and stable communication system for the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e221	I want to start by giving tribute to the Workers' Party to make a proposal on how to secure broadband communications in the northern regions. Thank you, too, to the President-in-Office. For the Christian People's Party, this is an exciting and important matter, as part of a greater strategic effort in the north. We're now familiar with that 80 pst. maritime traffic in the Arctic takes place in Norwegian waters. At the same time, we know how important communication solutions are. sovereignty, research, monitoring and not least rescue operations. For shipping, today satellite communications are based on the development of geostationary satellites. We are aware that new technologies are being exploited on board vessels for both operation, operation and welfare needs. And e-navigation based on broadband technology is becoming fully established in the maritime world. The ship's fleet therefore operates – as has already been said – in two very different worlds of communication: south and north of the 75th parallel. Proper exploration in the north areas also depends on broadband solutions being in place. In addition, the increased needs for passenger traffic and cruise vessels are added. But also in aviation broadband solutions are important, both for the operation of the aeroplanes and subsequently for the use of passengers as well. We also know that today there are a large number of transcontinental flights that are increasingly in need of broadband solutions. One must ensure that one is able to deal effectively with all major challenges in the north, and it is currently almost unthinkable to operate effective situation management without broadband communications systems in the mainland. In order to make this equivalent effective in the North and Arctic regions, there is, of course, a similar need for broadband there. A major accident, for example: a carrier, a baseload, a major oil spill, would be challenging without effective communication solutions in order to share information, coordinate efforts and exploit telemedicine in order to save damage, manage the media, etc. The described developments update the need to put in place a solution for broadband in the north and the Arctic. With available technology and infrastructure, Norway can play an important role which will consolidate Norway’s position in these areas. It is therefore important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that Norway is at the forefront and controls such an important strategic capacity. When one knows that such infrastructure is essential for the exercise of authority and for the provision of critical services, one should ask the critical question whether it is well enough to be prepared, if we are too much left to the priorities of other nations in such an important field. I'm not saying we're there now, but the question and awareness of this is important, in the eyes of the Christian People's Party. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, there is a need to carry out a study on how to achieve a robust satellite broadband solution that can meet national communication needs in the northern regions. Strengthening Norway’s capacity for monitoring, situational understanding, sovereignty enhancement and the exercise of powers through a communication system under Norwegian control and with a ground station on Norwegian soil will represent a significant strategic benefit. It is important that in this case, as in most others, we ensure that the country's funds are used in a sensible way. Any State investment in satellite communications in the northern regions must be justified by an overall assessment of the needs of the Norwegian user sectors. In order to ensure a solid basis for a decision on state involvement in a satellite communications system in these areas, it is necessary, in our view, that the State first define the needs to be addressed and, on that basis, launch a KVU as soon as possible. It contributes to the necessary quality assurance of solutions and costs and, hopefully, will also not contribute to significant delays in further progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e240	This is a very important matter, especially in a north-eastern perspective. 80 pst. maritime traffic in the Arctic takes place in Norwegian waters. At the same time, good communication solutions are important for, for example: sovereignty, research, climate and environmental monitoring and not least search and rescue operations. A robust communication system could also facilitate further value creation in the northern regions. The government is aware that existing systems providing satellite communications in the north of 75 degrees have very limited performance and capacity. Communication challenges in the north are discussed in, for example: the government's maritime strategy and the government's north-eastern strategy. In the fresh Svalbard message, we have announced that we will assess the needs and opportunities of a satellite-based communication system in the northern regions. The main objective of Norwegian space activities is to be a tool for Norwegian interests. The government's space policy focuses on industrial development and infrastructure development to meet national user needs. Norway has a large public investment in space compared to many other countries of similar size. The reason for this is, among other things, that we have a scattered population, large seas and a large element of natural resource-based business and maritime transport. The user benefits of space infrastructure are across several sectors, and this is not least the case in the case of communications infrastructure in the north. I am concerned that we find solutions that meet all the needs. There are many sectors of interest in this: defence, the oil and gas sector, research and environmental and climate monitoring, to name a few. It is important in this context that we make sure that we have all the government needs mapped out, so that we can get a robust and good communication system that meets the needs we see today and not least in the future. As Minister of Industry responsible for both the maritime and space sectors, I want to find a solution to the challenges of broadband communications in the north. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that such a large investment is made correctly and that the country's funds are used in a sensible way. Any State investment in satellite communications in areas north of 75 degrees must be justified by an overall assessment of the needs of the Norwegian user sectors and an assessment of the best solutions. In order to ensure that we have a solid basis for a sound decision on State investment in such a system, we will launch an external investigation in line with the Ministry of Finance's guidelines for major government investments, a so-called KVU, that is, a draft selection investigation. Like the Committee on Transport and Communications, I am concerned that we are getting a quick start and an effective implementation. I notice that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Centre want to skip a draft committee investigation, and as far as I understand it, it is in fear that any commercial opportunities will disappear. To that I would like to say that we cannot allow the consideration of some commercial opportunities to govern the government's choice of concept in such an important matter. This KVU is supposed to ensure that the best option is chosen, and that it actually responds to the needs we have, and therefore I can't or I don't want to advance the outcome of such a KVU. This is such a big and important project that we have to be sure that we choose the right and proper solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e258	It's not supposed to create a big discussion about this at all, because I'm very happy that we agree that this is a big and important project to get in place. However, Norwegian Romsenter sent a letter to the government in 2015 and said that this was an important project to get started, and left a lot of information in it. So this has remained lying, because if not we could have been ready to deal with this today. Why isn't the Council of State clearer about what needs to be done to get started? Here you've actually spent a lot of time not doing that much, but you're standing here today claiming that this is important. We have to get results, and then I'm interested in getting information from the Council of State: when can you imagine that you have a solution, and when will this become a real government budget? Are we talking about 2019, or when are we talking about, based on the project the Council of State adds up to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e267	So this is not a matter that the government has now discovered. When Norsk Romsenter sent his letter, it was because in the letter of assignment from the department – i.e. from me – they had been assigned in 2014 and 2015 to make an assessment of this. Norwegian Space Centre is our government space policy tool, and they have assessed the civil maritime needs. We need to assess the needs of more sectors. I mentioned this in my post. There are many other needs that also need to be assessed, it is the needs of the country, in any State investment that may need to be assessed. That's why we have to do this KVU, and in most contexts, I think it's good that we do a wide-ranging study of this and then decide how we're going to invest in it. We're going to do that as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e275	Yes, I understand the whole line of reasoning, but what is problematic to understand is why not things have been done and taken hold of. If you got this information in 2014–2015, why not come back today? You could consider different options already and could come a lot further if you had actually been interested in doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e280	At this point, too, I believe that the Workers' Party will not have much time when they come in opposition. They didn't do anything about this when they put themselves in government. So we have indicated the need for this both in our maritime strategy and now in the Svalbard message at the latest, but we need to make a thorough assessment. We've got the tape from the Norwegian Space Centre. It's professionally very good, but it has some shortcomings. Now we have to clarify that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e287	When you have any deficiencies in the information you received in 2015, it is strange that you have not been able to clarify this now. You should be impatient whether you are in position or opposition, and in this case there is no conflict – that someone does not want it and others want it. Here, the whole Storting agrees that this is important. Then it's about doing things. I challenge the Council of State once again: when can we see this in the budget? How long is the Council of State going to take before you actually get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e294	I perceive that we have been very impatient. In a very short time, we have launched a maritime strategy with 69 follow-up points. Many have been completed. This is one of those that is now going to be implemented. To conclude on which system we're going to have, how much it's going to cost, and when it's going to be invested, I can't do that. Then the whole point of a KVU would be discarded. The point is that now we're going to get a KVU, and then we're going to make our decision based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e301	It doesn't look like so many others have drawn on lines, so I'm taking the chance. Why isn't the KVU started earlier, since you've had the information for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e308	So the information we have is an information about some civil maritime needs, but we're of the opinion that there are many more needs, and that's why we're starting this KVU. So it's not like we've discovered neither the sea nor the need for satellite communications now. This is something that has been described in our maritime strategy and in the Svalbard message, and now we are ready to start. That's the way it is. There is a lot of work to be done, and this is now ready to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e315	I am very pleased that the Council of States is positive both in its response to the Committee and here today. It is an important matter, there is a great need for this, and it is supported in a number of sectors. And when the transport committee was on Svalbard a year and a half ago, this was specifically mentioned there, so that's correct. My question to the Council of State is: How quickly can we expect such a concept selection investigation to be launched, and when can we see a decision-making basis to which the Storting can relate in the next round? It'll be important to be able to have a pretty tight drive, so that we get it in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e322	I'm by nature impatient, so once we've made this decision that this is the tool we want to use in this context, we're going to start describing the mission right after vacation and light it up. And there has to be a competition. This is an external, independent investigation – it is an important point – so that it needs to be illuminated, and it takes some time to follow the rules. We're going to get started during the early harvest, and then it takes the months it takes before we get a report. How much time we need to conclude will depend on what information we get, but we now have to work specifically to get this in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e327	Then it may be possible that we can get a case in the next year, where the Stortinget gets more information, more about progress in investment and possibly what type to establish?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e332	Yes, that must be a good goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e341	The topic we are discussing today is important for many reasons. It is both about north-eastern action and about Norway's role as a digital supplier, but it is also about cooperation with other countries. Communication applies not only to Norwegian vessels on a Norwegian base, but also to all those who use our airspace and our oat room when they are out on business, out doing business and other things. So we want to benefit from this both Norwegian and international. So I see that almost everyone in this room agrees that this is good, and then there's a discussion where someone is trying to give the impression that things should have happened a long time ago. And then it's kind of interesting that those who challenge this were the ones who ran a little long ago, but who didn't do anything about it. Then I hear that the Minister of Industry is being challenged as to why this had not already started. Let me then remind you of what the Labour Party itself writes in its representative proposal. There, the Labour Party shows that the United States has taken over the role of the Arctic Council, and has set up a working group chaired by Norway, just to look at the solutions needed. So international actors are working on this, and where Norway is leading. The Workers' Party wants us to just cut short. The Labour Party itself points to «Norwegian Rome Centre is one of the country’s instruments in this context» – but then only the Norwegian Rome Centre Workers’ Party is listening to. So the Labour Party says that the challenge has been that the solution they point to, just to shoot up two satellites, has been very expensive, and that there has not been enough market needs to defend a commercial bet, and that many other countries have also thought in the same direction, but have also not found it sound from technology and costs. Then the Workers' Party writes that with the development now ‘the market image is changing’. So we have a process where technology, costs and the like make what was difficult yesterday, tomorrow becomes possible. That's exactly what makes the government and the Minister of Industry already set those processes in motion, and challenged Norwegian Rome Centres, both in 2014 and 2015, which means that we are now launching a concept selection investigation, in 2016, where one will look at the different possibilities that arise when the market changes. That is precisely what the Workers' Party itself called for us to do, because they wrote in the proposal: «The government asks the government to propose how broadband telecommunication can be effectively secured in the Norwegian part of the north. [[...]] That's exactly what's going on, and then all of a sudden it's not good enough anyway. And then this becomes a little too much political game, instead of we can stand together and say that this is something we work for. There is no doubt that digital communication is becoming increasingly important to all actors in society. Two days ago, we had a discussion in this Chamber about autonomous vehicles and the digitisation of the transport sector, and that is what we are going to have here today, about two debates from now on. The government has provided a big message, the Digital Agenda for Norway, and we have presented our own ecosystem – the first of its kind. You give the impression that the government hasn't come up with any options, but it's just sitting and sleeping, but it's clearly proven to be a mistake in the grips the government has already done. If someone thinks that things are happening too late, it's a little weird that we got to empty drawers because the processes weren't already started, but we actually had to do it ourselves. One can sit in opposition and think that things should go even faster. It's possible. But I see that on every occasion where we have contact points, where it is natural for the Minister of Industry to give a message, she has used it, and that is good progress. That's why I think the decision that Stortinget is making now makes sense. It gives the government the progress we need to find a good solution, where we do not jump on a concrete proposal in a market that is developing, but where one actually sits down, looks more into the market – along with our neighbouring countries – to see how we can solve this in the best possible way. But be sure: the government is very concerned that we are trying to develop Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian technology in this context. It also sees one in the work that we are now doing with the National Transport Plan, where this with autonomous vehicles is something we're going to connect to developing jobs in Norway, and not just importing foreign technologies, as we've done too much in the field of electric car investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e368	Two days ago, we debated here an interview from the representative Åse Michaelsen about autonomous driving. Then the council said that the future was coming quickly, and that he was talking to some foreign actors who thought that three months was a short term and four months was a long term. The Council of State then referred to the Labour Party's proposal on autonomous driving gear submitted on the same day, and pointed out that one of the sub-proposals there, to ask the government to take the initiative of a NOU, would be a play of time, and therefore he would go straight to the law. Why is there not a hurry with future broadband solution in the north, when there is such a hurry with driverless driving gear?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e375	Here, a little bit of different situations and different things mix. What I pointed out is that when it comes to creating the framework for the use of autonomous vehicles, it is to have an expert investigation wasted some time, when we can rather gain experience from what has been done in Sweden, and we have already started working on a law in Norway. We can then take the decision in 2017. I think the Labour Party itself answers the question from the representative Magne Rommetveit in its document, for it says: ‘However, with developments in the aviation sector, the market situation is changing.’ This means that they themselves recognize that there are changes going on, but that they have not necessarily found out what the market is like. We're still a little bit there that one discusses whether it's VHS or Beta within video cassettes that should be controlling. I don't want us to start building a Beta system if it's the VHS that's going to be controlling, and even more if it's DVD or if one comes straight on the digital media. And that's where we think, also in dialogue with the market, that it's a little too early to say who's the winner, and right then a spend time finding out what's the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e387	First I have to say that I think it is very stubborn when the government says what I want to call two top state councils in such a case. That's very nice. This shows that the government is busy. Let me also underline from our side what the Council of State said, that this is a matter that we are gathering behind; we have no doubt about that. The councils are talking about history, while I think it's a little important that we look forward, and especially that here we also look northward, and see the light in the north and the possibilities there. Does not the Council of State think it is the opposition's task to be impatient? Is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e396	I think it's very good that everyone is impatient, and I'm going to promise you that the impatience is probably even greater within the government and with our partners to get things done. The fact that the Workers' Party is impatient, too, is very good, but I have to remember once again that there should be a connection between what one demands, and what one himself argues for and proposes. The proposal from the Workers' Party thus states: ‘It is appropriate to consider carefully whether Norway should control such an important strategic capacity: [[...]] So one argues that one should have an in-depth assessment, but one criticises the government when we say that we should therefore make a concept selection inquiry, which will just give this thorough assessment. Once again, there is no connection between the criticism one makes to others and that one himself argues with. And that's what I think is a little bit funny.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e406	A thorough assessment is one thing – and I expect the government to do it – but in the design options it is that one should select one of several concepts. This is where we think the concept and direction are clear. So one doesn't need to figure out everything else, to end up with the concept that you see now is the direction that you have to go in. Of course, there might be nuances in just how to do it, but to evaluate broadly whether to have an involvement in this, I think in some way is unnecessary to interfere with a KVU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e413	I think I have to clear up a misunderstanding, because the KVU is not going to be about doing anything, but about which solution to choose. That's where we agree, so I think this was a very good question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e418	Here I see that there are not so many other ways to go than the one that is sketched. Conceptual exchange, with the following KS1 and KS2, is even more extensive than the KS, the former central association of municipalities, and there will be an enormous amount of time to do so. Like the representative Botten, who asked the previous Council of State about the time you can expect to have a decision and get it started, I will ask that question to the Council of State Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e423	I feel here that we're trying to whip a dead horse, because here everybody says we agree. One from the Labour Party has put forward a general proposal that the government should come up with a case – we have promised to make a case. The Labour Party itself has shown that it is the government that has repeatedly challenged the Norwegian Rome Centre on this, and when the answer comes from the Norwegian Rome Centre, it is as a result of today's government initiative. The Labour Party has said that we need to carefully evaluate your daughter and your daughter, and we say yes, we need to assess thoroughly, but we need to present this as soon as possible – believe me. We are very eager to find digital solutions in the transport sector – as this is also about. But I think it's interesting that the Workers' Party argues that this is also about accessing more exploration areas for oil companies. I wonder if the whole Workers' Party is behind it as a basis for this proposal – and not least the other red-green parties. But again, I don't know how much clearer it is to say that I believe everyone in this room agrees. So let's get started with the work. We're already running, as seen, and we're going to give this to the Storting as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e434	I stop at the end of the day – to get the work started and finish the line change, so that the Council of State can move forward and get the work started. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e440	Does Solvik-Olsen want to answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e443	No, I think this actually answered Monica Melando quite a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e448	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e453	I have to say it was good that both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Transport were involved in the debate, because it shows that pressure is being put on this, and then we know who we are going to follow up on in the future. So I know that when I hear the Transport Council argues that he would be more involved in these transport debates. It creates at least commitment, to say it like that. What was said here instead of the Council of State, was that the government needs to do something about this. But it's actually not the government that needs to do something about it, it's the ones that's at sea, that needs the government to do something about it. It's green light from Stortinget to get it done, so don't hesitate. So I think it's important that we take that situation seriously. The maritime strategy presented by Monica Mæland has 69 points, but there are quite a few remaining points, and there are many major points that need to be clarified. It's also a little interesting to remember that many of the points our government had already done well and worked with. I think it's important to do this job, and I'm thinking about new technology. Yes, we can say that we have to spend a lot of time on things, but we are responsible for creating framework conditions for a business that is evolving all the time, and we also have to look at how we can lay a horsehead in front. Instead of whipping a dead horse, as was said here instead, I think we have to be a horsehead at the front and facilitate that technology development is also an opportunity room, and that it helps to make things safer at sea. The broadband bit is an important infrastructure that needs to be put in place, but we also need to remember that the operations of the vessels that go there, the operation, e-navigation, today are based on broadband technology, so it is important to get this in place. I think that the increased traffic and the opportunities that are in the marine space that everyone is now discussing are contributing to a significant increase in need. So I shouldn't say more, except that I think it's very good that we agree on this, and that we actually get to speed it up. Then we're going to make sure that the upsurge and this KVU are started very quickly over the holiday, and that we get this clarified reasonably quickly, so that we can get it in a budgetary context as well and get a factual treatment in the Stortinget quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e470	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e484	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e500	Let me just start by pointing out a weirdness. It is that this interpellation on the importance of driverless cars for transport policy was promoted by me on 25 April. Three days later, on 28 April, Åse Michaelsen from the Council of State's own party promoted a similar interpellation on driver-less cars to the Council of State. The last person to be promoted was, however, set up for treatment two days before this, which was promoted first. But I see from the minutes that there are a number of key issues that were not addressed in Tuesday's debate, and are therefore in line with this inter-pelling debate, because the theme is crucial for societal planning for the future. But, as I said, it's strange. I am pleased that we have a Minister of Transport who is so clearly engaged in technological solutions and the opportunities that lie in them. That's what the Minister of Transport needs. At the same time, therefore, it is so disturbing that he still appears to be a dinosaur in the policy of transport in the way he prioritizes the great crowns of traffic, or the people's tolls as they really are. The Minister of Transport is the king of tolls. The most striking example of how Solvik-Olsen's enthusiasm for new technology obviously does not affect his decisions is how the Council of State has taken a clear role in forcing through an extension of the E18 West corridor from today's six fields to eleven. In my opinion, the press is contrary to what Erna Solberg stood here on the interlocutory and said, namely that the state will follow what Oslo and Akershus agreed on, and the Council of State statement that the State is a party to the negotiations. Let me start with a parallel and go into the core of the matter. Now Oslo is building a new signalling system that will enable remote control of the T-Bahn in the city. It extends the capacity through the Oslo tunnel by 25 pst, 7000 additional passengers per hour. It's just ICT investment in general, but it allows Oslo to push animals into investment in a new T-Bahn tunnel and still succeed in providing citizens in Oslo with a much better T-Bahn offer. Back to E18: Think about what happens when the cars are already becoming more and more self-driving. Already today, the E18 takes far more traffic on the densest than it is dimensioned for. Because when the speed is lower, the capacity gets higher. It becomes possible to drive tighter. With new cars that brake automatically when the car is in front of you, you no longer need to count 1001, 1002, 1003. It might just hold on to 1001, 1002. Suddenly you have increased the capacity on the road by 20-30 pst. Maybe it just becomes 1001. With self-driving cars that keep speed and distance from the car in front of you, you release the traction effect in the queues, and you pick up a few percent of the capacity growth. None of these impacts of technology development has been taken into account when the current E18 West Corridor is to be extended from today's six fields to 11. Take another moment on which the Council of State was discussing Tuesday's debate on driver-less cars, i.e. that with interconnection. Budstikka's unscientific count of who runs on the E18 in Bærum shows that 85 pst. by people who drive a car, drive alone in a rush. With driverless cars, the Council of State is in line with me in that fewer and fewer people are going to own their own car, simply because it is cheaper and at least as flexible not to own in urban areas. You don't need service, you don't have to find parking and with smartphone technology you have a car where you are and when you need it, for a fairer money. In addition, if you are willing to pick up some passengers along the way for a discount in the price, it will be possible that there is no longer 85 pst. driving a car alone on the E18, but gradually down towards maybe 10 pst. Suddenly, there has been a considerable increase in the capacity to take away many more cars on the E18. But all of these things assume that you're willing to control evolution. We in Norway are not the world's leading electric car because the market made it happen, but because, as politicians, we focused and not fully linearly chose to properly facilitate electric cars and zero-emission cars. That's when the market actors came. Therefore, Norway became the world’s largest electric car laboratory and contributes to the industrialisation of electric car technology and the testing of various charging systems. If we combine this with the automatic meter reading that comes around in every home in Norway in 2019, we will continue to be the laboratory for smart power management systems. Self-driving electric cars, large fleet management – all this I mean means what is called a break in the technical language, or ‘disruption’, which is called ‘newsman’. But it must be political if we are to succeed in taking advantage of this. Take the parallel of automatic metering of current. With automatic meter reading, we will succeed in doing one thing that we are unable to do today. Because if you look at the 8 760 hours of the year, there are many places up against max loads for maybe only 10 to 15 hours a year, but still there is a need for large net investments. Automatic meter reading allows better power consumption control. Approaching the top, the flow can be more expensive and the hot water tank or air conditioning can be automatically uncoupled. It can save society billions in net investment. Again: with intelligent road pricing that adapts prices to available capacity and air quality, as well as phase-in technologies for self-governing cars and clear priorities for interconnection, there are tremendous opportunities for exploiting the road capacity we have today much, much better than taking new, large investments. In my opinion, the charging system should encourage this kind of technology development. We should have lower charges for cars that have self-management options, and higher charges for those who do not. We should praise the tolls for the trucks that deliver goods at the times of the day it's available, instead of having equal price all day. And we should do what SV has fought for for for a number of years and that the right side has stood in the way of, that is, having time-differentiated toll rates. They may be much more time-differentiated than just having an intoxication effect, but they can be seen and controlled according to actual road capacity. Why does not the State provide clear benefits for bus drivers, e.g. from the city of E18 today, or clear benefits for car drivers, in order to stimulate the use of apps and the technology for car sharing? That is why I believe that instead of acting as a journey dinosaur and promoting demands for more, the Minister of Transport should promote the demands for more technology first. That's why I'm dealing with the questions I have in the interpellation. My first question has been answered by the Minister for Transport, namely: When does the Minister for Transport plan that the legislation for driverless cars should be in place? There, the Minister of Transport stated that his plan is that it should be in 2017, so I just repeat the question. Is it the case that the Council of State has a plan to ensure that the first fully autonomous vehicles will be on the roads in Norway during 2017, possibly the year-end of 2018? They are already driving around today, not in Norway, but those who have driven with Tesla have tried this autonomous option, and the responsibility is in a way very clear. The second important question, which is what I have spent most of my contributions on, is: How will the Minister of Transport ensure that work on a new national transport plan addresses the reduced need for road capacity due to an increased share of interconnection in self-driving cars? If you read the input of the trade unions into the national transport plan, you'll see that this is affected, but it's in no way that the things that are there are included in the models of what is socio-economically profitable, what is sensible capacity anymore and what is. It is not in the vicinity of being included in the models, and it is not close to being able to permeate the national transport plan in the way necessary for planning transport policy – road investment, railway investment and collective investment – right up to 2029. The Minister for Transport pointed to one thing both in the previous debate and the debate on Tuesday, which is interesting. He used to use the picture of the horse dross in New York and say that people who looked at that picture thought there was going to be a lot of horse dross. Instead, the car came. Then he also used the argument that when you look at all the cars that are today, you get the impression that the people who are critical of the road development are against the car and turn their backs on the technology. I believe that is a completely wrong presentation. Those who see the current situation and continue to plan for the continuation of enormous capacity building, of motorways around large cities, and are enthusiastic about technology, as the Council of State is, without taking into account what this means for the whole of transport policy and social planning – it is those who turn their backs on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e534	I'm very happy to discuss such an important topic. It could be a continuation of the good discussion we started two days ago. In fact, the previous interpellation dealt more with digital solutions and a comprehensive transport network, especially with the angle against collective travel. Then it's a little strange that the SV's variant of this is about the private car, and how it should be used to a greater extent. I think it is important for Norway to go ahead in order to facilitate more use of digitalisation in the transport sector, and that we facilitate this in order to strengthen collective solutions in and around the big cities – not that we should end up driving everyone in their self-driving car into and out of town and hoping that someone will sit on. The city center doesn't get any better because you have a lot of self-driving cars that fill the streets, instead of people driving them themselves. What we can do, on the other hand, is to strengthen the efforts of the government: to expand the good public infrastructure solutions in and out of, for example. Oslo, and then feed the stations that are on the way into town, with passengers. Then it's about making travel life better and easier, and it's just some of what we discussed two days ago: how can you make sure that people can stand at home and get transportation from home to the big collective nodes, in as simple and good a way as possible? That's when you can change people's behavior. If the solution to this is that everyone is just driving in their self-driving car instead, they get more traffic in and out of Oslo. And even though traffic can run tighter, one with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ logical approach will actually have to increase capacity more than one will with the government’s approach to this. There are four major global trends that I think are going to change travel everyday. The four trends I also think some transport researchers should take on board, so that they don't just have a prediction of yesterday's development into tomorrow's society. Because when you get digital solutions, when you get other choices, when you get better choices, people's behavior changes. Some of us are very happy in the car as a hobby. Most of us are busy with a car to get there. Those who currently sit for one hour on the E18 every way in line do not because they love to sit in their car, but because their option is probably even worse – because they live too far away from the collective nodes and work so that it is not a logical solution. Then it's actually better to spend an hour in the queue than to spend an hour and a half on the bus. Our goal must be that those who are currently sitting in a queue of cars can perhaps use only half an hour on that trip, because they get to the collective nodes in a better way – or because we get rid of the queues that are on the road today, so that when you first have to use a car, it also goes faster. And although climate policy means that we should not have more growth in road traffic, we can at the same time expect that in terms of goods transport and professional transport, there will be continued growth as long as there is population growth in this country. When we know that there are already some queues on the roads, one closes eyes to realities when one thinks that they automatically disappear just one not yet filled in with several passenger cars. More trucks and more professional cars will make the queues only longer in the future, not shorter. The four global trends that will change this are among other things. what we see about the battery. The costs are gradually falling. This means that electric cars will gradually gain competitive advantages, regardless of the charging policy we are pursuing in Norway today. We see that the production of renewable energy is becoming cheaper and cheaper. Especially in the field of solar energy, a trend that has been ripping over the last decades, and some actors report that one can now produce solar power in the Middle East at a price equal to $10 the barrel of oil. Then it's not that Norway has a lot of hydropower and a Think and Buddy car, which makes the world change. It's about the global market actors producing cars seeing that electricity will be better available at a lower price and at a cleaner environmental account, which makes them turn around. So there's no Norwegian electricity car advantage alone, so we get the impression here that Tesla, Volkswagen, GM and others are developing the electric cars. It's because it's a far bigger market than the Norwegian that's now in its infancy. In Norway it is sold approximately. 100 000 to 150 000 cars, of a global market of 60 to 70 million cars. No car factory will survive to have a market of 100,000 cars as its main domain. We've seen that for both Think and Buddy – unfortunately, one might say. The third thing that develops is the radar and sensor technologies. Those we're talking to point out that Google's Lexus that goes to California has a radar that cost $70,000 in 2013. The next generation that comes out will cost $90. So one has removed three 0's behind the price. This means that the technology can be installed almost regardless of whether the customer intends to order it or not, because it costs so little extra. The fourth amendment is the development of telecommunications. Today, as consumers, we notice that one is on 3G networks or 4G networks. I don't know if we're going to notice the difference when we're out surfing the cell phone when we're on the 5G web. But for everything that's going to talk, 5G technology will make a big difference. Then think about what 6G technology will do a lot further in the future. We see those opportunities, and we find it exciting, both because we can develop Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation, and because it can help solve some of our transport challenges – both in and out of cities and between cities. This could mean finding better solutions to public transport, better solutions to freight transport, both by speeding up predictability and by reducing noise pollution, air pollution and other undesirable impacts. In that work, it is important that we cooperate. Although we have many excellent technology environments in Norway, this is so big and complicated that Norway alone will not be able to solve this. It is important that we make sure that the solutions chosen in this area are global in character, so that not a car that works in Norway stops on Svinesund because there is suddenly a completely different operating system at the bottom. It can't be that Ford's cars don't talk to Volvos, or that trucks don't talk to passenger cars. That's why we've taken a lot of initiatives, and we've got a lot of initiatives in our direction, because there's a lot of people working here, fortunately. We work with nutritionists and with other governments. A few months ago, we had the US Transport Minister in Norway, just to discuss this and to talk at a conference. The Finnish Minister of Transport came. We've been in the EU system a short time before that to discuss this, and we talk a lot to nutritionists. Elon Musk was one of our guests at the conference. Many other Norwegian actors showed that exciting things are happening. To get this in place, it is important that we both get technology environments stimulated, that they talk to the car industry – and that is where we now see, for example. that all three majors in the United States have teamed up with possible actors — and that we ensure that the law makes things possible. That is why we have started a work in the government to facilitate this. We don't do that because we're going to figure out if we're going to do it, but just to write the laws that make things possible. Norway can be at the forefront of drone technology, simply because we have a law that makes it possible to put it into practice and test it out. So even though technology environments are more powerful elsewhere, they come to Norway when they see how they can commercialize this, because they're allowed to actually use it. That's how I want it to be for a vehicle. But at the same time, we have to make sure that people feel safe about this. But when we're going to put it into practice, it doesn't just help that technology can exist. We have to make sure that our roads have the capacity to take the traffic away in a good way. We have to make sure that the roads are maintained, so that the cars that depend on optical reading from radars and cameras can actually see where the road is, so that one does not get confused and ends up in the middle of a ride off and a ride on. We have to make sure that we also move the traffic away from where people live. It helps few people living along a highway, that cars can drive tighter, and that there can be even more of them without an increase in the number of fields, if you're still suffering from noise as a result of that traffic. That's what a lot of the E18 project is about, to get into it. Some of the people who are involved in the negotiation say that 75 pst. the cost of the E18 project is about creating environmental tunnels and getting the collective tracks better and more efficient, so that in the future one can actually have self-driving buses that won't navigate between much else, where you can have the stops near where people live, not in the middle of a motorway. And it's about making sure that you can get your own bike tracks, so that when more and more people get electric bikes, you can also take care of them – not that a person gets a bike culture in Norway where those who are going to train for Birken are the ones who are seizing the bicycle tracks along the E18, while all the others we now want to start riding will feel insecure. When Budstikka in Asker and Bærum reports that small children are being scared by the bike path because adult people are shouting "Move!" we have not solved the problem of getting more involved in this. Similarly, we see that this must not be just about a car. It has to be about what kind of signalling systems you have in Oslo. Now I am not aware that one has actually started to invest in this, as SV gives the impression. It would be interesting if the City Council made a decision. But we see that on the railway we're going to upgrade the signalling system and probably use tens of billions of dollars. We see that within shipping comes the autonomous ship, where one wants to have a test area in Trondheimsfjorden. And Avinor is a leading figure in aviation. We need to stimulate this, but we must not believe that we can cut the infrastructure in the same context. We have to make it reasonable and organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e580	You're going to have a rather undisclosed interpretation of my post if you think that what I argued for was the need for more road capacity and less collective investment. On the contrary, everyone in this country understands that when it comes to taking in tolls, it's about the type of infrastructure you're going to invest in, and what you're going to spend the money on. I want more investment in public transport instead of what Ketil Solvik-Olsen wants, which through its contributions to the case and the discussion on E18 shows that there are clearly no limits to how high the tolls can be. All of us realize that you have to choose. If you have a toll bar, you have to choose between using the money on the road or using collective services. There is no «yes, both». One actually has to choose if one has a maximum for how much toll you're interested in taking in. The other Ketil Solvik-Olsen is not responding to the question of interconnection. He used as an example of why people drive cars, that driving collectively takes an hour and a half while by car only takes an hour. If one had been more willing to prioritize, to allow public transport to emerge, and had been more willing to set off own lanes only for interconnection, it would also be that public transport and interconnection would have run past the queue. Nothing is as bad as standing in a queue and seeing others pass by. Or to put it another way: there's nothing so cool as sitting on the plane on the way between Oslo and Gardermoen and just "flashing" past the cars and thinking that I've chosen the right one. Just that feeling we have to create through the use of ICT technology. So that's the way it is, and I think it's a little serious: despite the fact that Ketil Solvik-Olsen has got a month to prepare for my question, he's not answering it, and that's unfortunately something I've experienced too often from the Council of State. But my question was: how will the Minister of Transport ensure that work on a new national transport plan takes on the reduced need for road capacity as a result of an increased share of interconnection in self-driving cars? I did not get an answer to that question, nor did I answer the other question I asked: Is it such that the Council of State can confirm that we want a code in place, that his plan – I do not ask if he can guarantee it – is to have a code in place so that we can drive autonomous, self-driving, driverless, cars during 2017 or at the end of 2017/2018? I had these two questions as the starting point for a debate. The fact that he does not respond to whether he has taken over the reduced need for road capacity as a result of an increased share of interconnection in self-driving cars, I guess I mean that he has not taken this into account in the further work on the national transport plan. That's what I call dinosaur politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e589	When I hear the number of characteristics that have been ripped off in the course of these two posts from the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, and when I hear how he deliberately tries to avoid hearing the answers he gets, I think it's not strange that there's going to be war in the world. I've been to so many conferences around Norway and talked about this, as late as last week at Abelia and a month ago at the Evening Post's big city conference. I feel that everyone sees here that there is a three-way from today's government that is quite different from what you have had before. Maybe naturally, because technology development in recent years has made it possible to dream and think about things that are now realistic, but that a few years ago were seen as impossible. I replied in my post that we are in the process of 2017. It is actually we who have taken the initiative for it, but it is not good enough for the representative Eidsvoll Holmås. I don't know how many times I have to give the same factual information. We are in the process of achieving our goals in 2017. That is why I said two days ago to the Workers' Party that putting down a sample will only delay us, because we believe it is important that the legislation is in place. I mentioned the drone environments and the law there that we introduced from 1 January 2016 as a reason for the urgency, precisely to make it possible for things to develop. I don't know how much more clearly I can answer questions one. On question two, I also mentioned E18. I mentioned that a lot of the E18 investments are about moving the traffic away from where people live, so that people get some peace in their neighborhoods, because the fighting from the cars will be the same if the cars are self-driving or not. If you pack the roads tighter, you'll get even more cars. I did not say that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås wants more way, but I said that the consequence of the debate he is travelling is that today's legislation is being adapted to a large car park and collectively owned company that owns autonomous cars. I said that our entrance to this debate is to make sure that one has rather small buses, where one gets fewer vehicles and not only maintains the vehicles, but leaves more owned collectively. There's a difference between that and that. That's why I say that with our solution you will have fewer vehicles on the road. But at the same time I pointed out that there are already road sections with long queues, they do not disappear magically. When you have a population growth, a transport growth and a professional driver growth, there will be a need for good capacity. But what I can say is that the E18 is not a 16-field motorway project, like the city councillor Raymond Johansen has given the impression that it is. It is not a 16-field motorway project, there are three fields throughout in each direction, so already there is one to the extent that the capacity has been reduced in relation to what the red-green think it is. We maintain the project as it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e602	There is good reason to thank the representative for this interview. Firstly, we now see good results from the investment in public transport. The current transport plan has raised the collective dimension, and many municipalities are now making important changes and investments in infrastructure development. This happens in large cities and smaller municipalities. It is a good grip for a better supply across the whole country. Technological developments are moving rapidly. Heavy technological and economic forces mean that wholly or partly autonomous vehicles and ships will be future in the transport sector. I note that the Minister for Transport has already preached that the private car will no longer be private. It may have to bother him a little bit, all the time it's urgent to privatize everything else in his portfolio. If future submissions are less private and more public, there may be reason to be optimistic. But we're not just going to talk about the future without changing what the big changes can mean for those who live off and in the transport industry, because there are several challenges that need to be debated and solved. This is also the background for the Labour Party to present its proposal in the Grand Duchy on Tuesday 31 May. I think the government has to deal with the great potential of technological developments. There is a lot of talk from the minister, so I see that this is also going to be more tangible. Firstly, technology is still relatively immature and, not least, there are challenges to this technology in a winter country such as Norway. Secondly, there are a number of demanding and fundamental issues relating to legislation, responsibilities and privacy that need to be clarified. In particular, it will be crucial to look at the functioning of autonomous and man-driven vehicles in their coexistence in the transport network. Thirdly, it is central to better grasping the extent to which vehicle technology will affect the future need for infrastructure, especially in urban areas. Some arguments argue for better use of the car fleet and the road system, while others point out that this can be more attractive than public transport, and thus have the opposite effect. Autonomous vehicles also open to new forms of public transport, e.g. with injection probes through data-driven fleet management. Fourthly, technological change could have a significant impact on those working in the transport sector. The automation of taxis, public and freight transport at sea and by lorry could reduce the number of jobs in an important sector in Norway and change the industry’s skills needs. But I want to draw attention to the basic features of public transport – that several parts and travel together to save time and the environment. That's a good move we recognize from multiple modes of transport. But there is also a turning point in this development, which I should like both the Council of State and other politicians to take more seriously. Sweden has taken the lead in solving the principal aspects of automation. This will be part of the future, also for us here in Norway. But what we can't experience, at least it's safe, is to see the Council of State sitting in a driverless government car. It's a challenge his successor gets to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e623	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant Eidsvoll Holmås for pointing to important challenges associated with technological development. I mean that the commitment that we see here can be used in a constructive way, so that it can make a positive contribution to strengthening the many good solutions that are actually all pointed to in the basic document of the NTP. The transport sector must play an active role in addressing the negative impacts generated by the sector, both because it accounts for a large part of global and local climate change emissions, and because innovative solutions and the use of technologies within this sector can provide a better and simpler everyday life for people. It can increase the competitiveness of our industry, and at the same time it can contribute to security and the environment and ensure that it is well-managed. Autonomous cars are one of several exciting new solutions. Here, for example, one sees: to the effect that social benefits in terms of better use of infrastructure – with smoother and tighter traffic flows – can be expected to be potentially released by 70 pst. of the road surface. In addition, it could contribute to new possibilities for collective solutions, and it could meet expectations of a greater degree of individualised solutions. Without organisation, disruptive innovation can lose its potential and then its positive potential. I would argue that without the proper development of intelligent transport systems in Norway, it is quite unlikely that we will be able to achieve the goals we have seen. What's common to the ITS is that it simplifies, it improves, and it unites our transport every day, as well as that many simple solutions come at a staggering pace. This is why it is challenging for policy development and legislation. We should strictly always make sure to lie in front – in front of something that we hardly recognize today's contours. That's what the challenge is. This is the challenge for technology development and transport solutions in the future. But what we see so far is that developments show the need for better digital interaction platforms. We see that there is a need for more easily accessible data for the entire transport sector, and we see that there is a need for a law to test autonomous execution and later for regular use. Last but not least, we also see here that there is a need to invest in research and development. I am pleased that we have a political plurality that wants to be ahead of us, and when the government recently created the framework for a new law on ITS, it was precisely because there are so many challenges associated with ITS, for example. data protection, but also to ensure that all operators in the industry have equal access to information for further research and development. The ITS Act is a framework that must be filled with content as the recordings we get from the industry, and according to technological developments. We have a demanding task ahead of us to see that the legislation will not get in the way of the possibilities. We have to take the height of a transport sector where mobile phones, apps and the digital have become an integral part of our transport solutions. We must take the height of a future that is no longer sectoral, and a transport weekday with increasing expectation of 'call on demand'.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e642	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this debate. It clarifies, clarifies, the difference in politics. SV therefore believes that it is wrong to build roads to the cities. The Progress Party believes it is right to build roads into cities so that we can facilitate the future. It shall be a self-propelled vehicle. The representative, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, is asking why it is not possible to facilitate interconnection. Very well-known is today provided for intercooperation in rush time with electric cars just to make room for more buses. So I recommend the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to see how it's happening on the E18 today – you can't just ride bikes here in town. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås believes that it is about price and bomb – high price – but there is therefore no better environment and less noise for those who live in those areas, by making it expensive and difficult for others. You cannot facilitate self-propelled vehicles by leaving it as it is today, because you actually need better labelling – you actually need better roads. There will be more people in the country, more citizens, more and more goods and services will be transported – it sounds to me as if this is a rematch to avoid expanding the E18 through Oslo. And it sounds to me like it's just about Oslo City. Yes, Oslo City is an important city for the whole country. Many of us actually have the joy of driving through, and when I'm going to drive through Oslo – for some of us actually have to north of Oslo sometimes, and vice versa – I see that it's going close, both by electric cars in collective fields and by connecting in rush time. I see buses and I see that they are running very tight, so there will be no more space with self-driving vehicles. They say that parking spaces are no longer needed in the city. No, but there will be twice as much traffic, because they will have to go back – out again – once they have delivered the passengers. This is going back into the future. We need to build more roads, make it easier for people. Norway is going to change, the time is going to change, and what was unimaginable ten years ago was conceivable just eight years ago — two years later, and what we think is right in a week, may be right tomorrow, or later today. The Progress Party has faith in – it's about facilitating, being a little forward-looking, a little forward-looking. We can't do as SV and say that if we just leave everything as it is today, and prevent, put at high prices and make it difficult for people, then everything will solve itself. I also believe that there will be self-driving cars, there will be self-driving buses, and there will certainly be another self-driving one too, and they will be driving on the road. Then we just have to build good, safe, safe roads to facilitate it with sensors. The work on the national transport plan also raises questions about whether it should be revised. So the interpellant raises questions about whether you can't see the reduced need for road capacity. I wonder where the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has been. I recommend that I go on an inspection of the E18 just outside the city. I come from Westfold and often drive into Oslo. I'm in line. I see a lot of people running together. I see a lot of people taking a bus. I see many who are trying to drive collectively, and I see many who are actually going to deliver goods and services into the city, out of the city, past the city, and I hope SV now see the light soon, and see that this country needs progress, foresight, foresight, foresight, development of infrastructure – it's about Norway's future, and it's going forward, I hope, and not backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e659	I want to start by thanking the representative Eidsvoll Holmås for bringing up an important debate. As the representative, Mr Rommetveit, has already pointed out, on Tuesday the Labour Party promoted a document on the same subject. The Labour Party believes that we need to seize the positive opportunities offered by the technology, while at the same time having to have an active policy to limit the disadvantages and ensure that everyone can take part in the benefits. Therefore, the questions raised by the representative, Mr Rommetvei, are important to be answered. There is a lot of great technology in self-driving cars today. But not even they can go to water as well as to land. We therefore stress in our proposal that the government must also facilitate autonomous ships. Norway has a leading maritime environment, we are good at remote management technologies and several of these environments are now working on autonomous ships. We are a country with many fjords and islands, and also for public transport, the sea is important. For Norway as a port, it is important to continue to lead this next step in maritime development. Therefore, it was gratifying that the Coastal Agency signalled in the National Transport Plan to establish a test area in Trondheimsfjorden for autonomous ships. Because, as the Council of State itself has pointed out, technology development is moving fast and is now in progress. Not just to hang out with, but to lead you have to really to mature the technology. Here, it is important that Norwegian authorities facilitate industry and not least technology development in Norway. On Tuesday, the Council of State signaled that work was under way on the amendment of the law. I would like to stress that it is vital to see ships in this context too, for who knows, at the pace we have in today's technological development, we might get ships in the future as in the adventure; they go as well to water as to land. And then you actually have to have control of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e670	Let me start by thanking you for your commitment to the debate. I would say to the councillor that he must listen carefully after when he gets commendation, and when he gets criticism. I started by saying that I think it is very good that the Council of State is involved in the technology. I know that the Council of State has both taken the initiative for conferences and participated in a number of conferences and talked about these things. I've also heard the Council of State talk in a number of other contexts positive about technology. But real technology optimists are using technology, they're not just talking about it in party speeches. There's my criticism. I commend the Council of State for putting legislation in place during 2017. I think that is good – the council deserves praise for having started that work and based on the work of others instead of reinventing the wheel. But what I asked about in my follow-up question was whether his plan is that we can get autonomous cars on the roads in 2017 or at the turn of the year 2017/2018. The second thing I've addressed my main criticism is that I've heard the Council of State talk very many times about his goal as a minister is to ensure greater prosperity for people – increased mobility is the word he's using. My overall objective of transport policy is to ensure that we stop the dangerous greenhouse gas emissions. The government can't deliver. If you see that we have an electric car as a competing technology for today's fossil car, but you don't propose to increase the fees on fossil cars and thus make sure that more people choose to buy electric cars, then you won't have the opportunity to use the technology either. We see that electric car sales go down. Several select chargeable hybrids, which have the effect of not giving zero emissions. We know from the statistics that they emit up to 3.5 times as much CO2 as reported by the car manufacturers. We also see too little willingness to use smart price mechanisms, for which the government council is rushing in the electricity market, but in terms of ensuring that the availability and management of the availability of cars on the ordinary road network that we have is regulated. The Council of State also leaves it to answer the question of whether it will put the reduced need for capacity, as a result of the new technology, into the national transport plan. I want to thank Toril Eidsheim for a very good and reflected article, where she is just talking about this. We have to take action and organize, otherwise it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e688	I thank you for a broadly good debate. Unfortunately, the conclusions of some of the debaters are that no matter what the question, the answer is less. This is not my approach to good transport policy. The point is to build a road that is sufficiently good for the purpose to be covered. Then it is quite obvious to me that some places are the roads quite good, they just have to be maintained better. In other places, we actually have to increase the capacity, even if you get self-driving cars. Some places it's about getting the road away from where people live, just because you get even more cars that are self-driving, there'll be even more noise where people live. I don't want to. It can't be a logic that if one gets autonomous cars, then one can conclude that the next time the Vålerenga tunnel is to be maintained, then we leave it alone, because now the cars are autonomous, now they can drive back through Vålerenga city, or that we can close the Ekeberg tunnel and the Opera tunnel, and that's a lot of it. That's what I see in the headlines that SV has not understood – that very much of the E18 project is actually about getting car traffic away from where people live, in the same way that we built the Opera Tunnel through Oslo, not to improve the road capacity itself, but to free the area so that people can actually thrive in this city without having to sweat where the cars are running. It makes no sense when you try to connect your ideological resistance to the road and cars themselves to think that it will solve if you only have self-driving cars. I'm very happy that many parties want a driving role. I think it is great that the Workers' Party is making proposals to confirm what the government has already started working around. Autonomous ship – The Coast Guard has already proposed it, and we are working in that direction. I remind you that Avinor is already working on remote trains and autonomous incubators. The Road Administration has cooperation agreements with several types of cars, including: Volvo, in the case of checking for signals. It is important that we discuss the processing of Big Data, so that we can inform each other and share knowledge, but it is also important that we maintain privacy in this discussion. These are important things that will be addressed in the national transport plan – of course it will. It would be pointless if the national transport plan did not take over the technologies. I've said – and I've said that all the time I've been around and talking, but I can repeat it here, so I'm going to add it to it – that when we create a national transport plan, we're going to make a transport plan where we're proud of what we're opening, even if it's in ten years, and we don't feel bad about having built something that wasn't necessary anyway, because the world has changed. We're not in 1870, where there's still 40 years of horse transport that we're going to solve. I believe we are in 1905, where we know that five years in advance, the cars have taken over for the horses. The entrance that SV has for this discussion is that you think you have to solve yesterday's problems with bans and charges, instead of embracing tomorrow's technology, which is right around the corner – I know what to use my energy on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e702	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e718	We're just going to continue the debate from now on. Four years ago, I met girls and women who had lost arms and legs in order for you and I to be able to buy reasonable clothes – deadly clothes. The story is this: One morning the workers discovered at Rana Plaza in Savar district outside Dhaka in Bangladesh cracking in the walls of the buildings. They hesitated to go to their jobs, they didn't feel safe. The factory manager will not listen to such things: Time is money, and deadlines for deliveries should not be broken. Workers who do not attend lose their jobs. Therefore, many people choose to go to work anyway — in the building, which together has five textile factories — because mouths have to be saturated. The next day, April 24, 2013, there's Ragnar rock. The building does not tolerate heavy industrial equipment, illegally built floors, tons of textiles and thousands of people. As the Rana Plaza roar begins, people panic at the stairs. Someone jumps out through the windows, and the world rages. The human bodies are squeezed into the heel when the floors are pressed together. Hundreds immediately die under the weight of collapsed concrete, reinforcement iron and heavy textile machinery. Volunteers dig survivors with only their hands, and the dead are put in a row and row in a school just next. Finally, the dead bodies count more than 1,100 people. The hours go and become days. Fire crews cry when they realize that there is no longer any hope of saving more. Not everyone was forced to work in the building of death. The bank officials, who worked on the first floor, had the strength to refuse. Perhaps their lives were valued more highly by their employers. But at least that's how they saved their lives. On the seventh floor of Enam Medical College in Bangladesh, I met twelve of the survivors a few weeks later. In every single bed in the hospital there were girls and women who had had amputated arms and legs. Many of them had to amputate at the accident site after being stuck for up to several days. “I don’t feel sorry for anyone,” they said. This is my destiny, said the 30-year-old factory worker when I sat down at her sickbed, and then it turned itself in me. She had only small assembled stumps again of it as once was two fresh legs. Several of the other women answered the same question. At the hospital, I met a little bit of that mind and rascal that I felt myself feeling. How can anyone think that a human life is so small that you threaten people into a building that shows signs of collapse? Such accidents are still going to happen as long as the workers don't feel they have a voice, said the hospital director to me, and I noticed that. We don't have to turn the clock back more than 100 years to find unfathomable suffering and death in our own working life. For many toothpick workers at the end of the 1800s, dental work was a first sign that the jawbone gradually rotted away. Serious brain damage and death could eventually be the price to pay for the work on the dangerous substance yellow phosphorus. In 1889, the female feminists demonstrated in Kristiana. They organized themselves, had real strike management and collected into the strike box. They lost their first battle, but they had fulfilled their demands step by step. The fight they started has given us a Norway today with protection agents, trade unions and labour inspectorates. Jan Davidsen, former leader of the Trade Union, has said the following about why Norway is a good country to live in: We have decided so, he says. But it hasn't happened without a fight. It had not been so if one of us stood alone and did not dare raise his voice. Now the fight against unfair employment for low-cost textile workers has reached the western clothing markets, because our lives are linked to theirs. The laborer's bloodshed hangs around our necks. In the back of many of my shirts, it says ‘Made in Bangladesh’, and there were 29 Western companies that got their clothes produced in the now stately building of Rana Plaza. Behind them was the brand name as Mango, Benetton, and Walmart. When the evening post through its award-winning series of Sweatshop allows Norwegian youth to try themselves as textile workers in Cambodia, the tears come from the young when they see what kind of life the factory workers have. In low-cost countries like China, Bangladesh and Cambodia, it is, to say the least, not always as easy to be a trade union activist. They deserve our support. Consumer campaigns have often led to change. Under pressure from consumers, Hennes & Mauritz, Varner, Lindex, KappAhl and Moods of Norway are now open about where they produce their clothes. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go from openness to justice. We're going to demand that the textile workers get better pay, but more importantly, they have the opportunity and the belief that it's useful to raise the claim themselves. They must stand together to have the strength not to enter buildings that have cracks in the wall. They need their own voice, so that they can require regulated working hours and protection against incalculable working hours. Just like the workers at home, they themselves have to fight for their fair share of the values created by the company they work in. What if we all ask ourselves the following questions the next time we buy clothes: Do the workers who sew these clothes, get organized? If you want the workplace to demand proper working conditions for everything you do, ethical trade initiatives can help. I have myself suggested to the Stortinget that when the State and the municipalities buy goods, a requirement must be made for fundamental rights to be fulfilled. Prohibition of discrimination, prohibition of the worst forms of child labour, prohibition of forced labour and, above all, the right to organise and conduct collective bargaining are the most important international conventions on labour standards, which have been accepted by the vast majority of countries, but not all. Right-hand controlled Ålesund makes such demands, Health South-East has done so, and the rest of public and private Norway comes after, because we've had an engagement from Stortinget. I would like to commend Monika Meland, our Council of State in this area, which says that when you buy, the public should make demands on fundamental human rights. What's the consequence of doing just that? Well, it's that the companies that follow the standards have the opportunity to charge a slightly higher price in competition, they have the opportunity to meet the conditions and stand at the forefront of competition. If Norway can be a country that shows that public expenditure is ahead of demand, it will be something that other peoples, young people, people in other countries can do as a requirement. Law on public acquisitions comes into effect. From the public procurement side, it's now about how to follow it up further, how to do it in a way that actually works. I wish the Council of State luck with that work. If you think the clothes you buy are cheap, you know why: it's because it's not a self who pays the price for them, the price is in the ruins of Rana Plaza. This commitment to the law of public acquisitions has been a long one, ever since I was the Minister of Development. When the 7th grade at Eiksmarka School contacted me because they had a project at the school where they asked themselves what we can do to improve the pay and working conditions of the textile workers, it inspired me, because they came after a lot of work that knowledge is important. There is no doubt that knowledge of how Sweatshop was driven, that it has emerged, and the whole debate that has taken place behind Rana Plaza, which was really a game changer or changed public attention to security of working conditions, means something to people's commitment. What you don't know has really hurt you, but what you know about is a lot of people are trying to do something about it. The class might not have written this problem if it wasn't for there was a lot of attention on TV. As I said, I have praised Monika Mæland for working for a code of public procurement that takes into account the principles of fundamental human rights. The UN has set its own standards for this. Both the UN Global Compact and Ruggies ‘Princes’ have been established for how businesses and businesses should take social responsibility and follow human rights. Based on how you go from the public to the rest of society, I raise this question to the Minister of Industry. She has been shown to be ahead of public acquisitions and to contribute to the provision of this by the government. How, then, can you take this further, also to the private business? How to make demands or ensure that business in Norway also follows Ruggie’s ‘principles’ and understands that when selling things to a Norwegian consumer, the products and services sold must have been manufactured in a way that does not imply that workers are at undue risk and that things are done in a way that is in line with human rights. These are questions I've asked the Minister of Industry, and I'm waiting anxiously for an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e767	Proposals for a new law on public acquisitions are now being dealt with in the Storting. It is currently being discussed by the Economic and Social Committee and, as far as I know, they are giving their position today. The aim of the new public procurement law is primarily to modernise and simplify the former law and to ensure social considerations, such as: promoting respect for fundamental human rights. I'm very happy that the interpellant thinks it's positive. This consideration is consistent with the government's efforts to promote human rights where they are violated. With regard to the issue of making public procurement rules applicable to private business, the procurement rules apply to State authorities, county and municipal authorities, bodies governed by public law, public undertakings engaged in supply activities and other activities carrying out supply activities, i.e. the procurement law is directed towards the public. It is the contracting authorities which are subject to regulatory obligations, not the private business. The regulatory framework shall promote efficient public use of resources and provide confidence to the public in public procurement activities. The law is built up and adapted to public activities. For several reasons, I do not see it as appropriate or desirable that a law specifically adapted to the public sector should also apply to the private sector. In my opinion, the National Action Plan on Enterprise and Human Rights, which the government presented last year, is a well-suited instrument for addressing the issues addressed by the interpellant. The action plan is a follow-up to the UN’s guiding principles for business and human rights and the government’s communication to the Stortinget Possibilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy. The National Action Plan is part of the government’s efforts to strengthen efforts to promote human rights. The action plan shall make it easier for business to comply with the United Nations guiding principles. The principles state that business has a separate responsibility to respect human rights. It clarifies what Norwegian authorities expect from Norwegian companies, but also what businesses can expect from Norwegian authorities in terms of assistance and advice. In the action plan, the government proposes a number of measures and follow-up is well under way. Many measures have been developed through broad cooperation across central government. In respect of the protection of human rights, the government expects, inter alia: Norwegian companies are careful in the countries in which they operate. This applies specifically to companies active in demanding markets. The responsibility to respect human rights applies regardless of where companies have activities, but one must be particularly vigilant against what is perceived to be difficult markets in countries where allegations of breaches of human rights are often made. Most enterprises in Norway are small or medium-sized enterprises with limited administrative and financial resources. It would therefore be very demanding for these companies to follow up the same and comprehensive requirements imposed on public activities in the procurement legislation. Many of these companies don't want resources to do that. My starting point is that companies should use their time as much as possible to create values and to operate the enterprise and to minimise the time required for extensive regulatory requirements. The government's efforts to simplify legislation and reduce administrative costs for business are well under way. This is a very important priority task for me as Minister of Industry. Making the procurement law applicable to private business will impose extensive administrative burdens and economic costs on business, and it will put simplification back many steps – not to say many years. I don't want to. Then it is that consumers are increasingly demanding producers of goods and services. Consumers increasingly focus on how the products they buy are produced and how human rights are respected for those who work in production. The manufacturers know that very well. When human rights violations are detected, there is often – and I would say fortunately – a great deal of negative media attention on these issues. That's good. This may lead to the loss of contracts and reputation of manufacturers. The vast majority of manufacturers do not want that. Therefore, serious producers will have a very high self-interest in the good working conditions of production workers. The Government has taken important steps when it now proposes to the Storting that fundamental human rights considerations be included in the procurement legislation of public enterprises. It implies that the public will be at the forefront of ethical trade. I would like to pay close attention to how the new legislation works. The question of any changes we may have to come back to when we have had sufficient experience of how the new law has worked. The stories that the representative tells make a strong impression, but there is also knowledge that is based on relationships that lie four years ago in time. Four years ago, the representative was part of a government which also failed to implement this legislation for private enterprises. I think that's because it's going to be far too extensive and too costly, and that's not what we're going to do when we're going to achieve the goal of combating human rights violations. Here, I believe that the government is doing well to follow up the many measures contained in the NAP on the promotion of human rights. I therefore believe that Norway is very well equipped to contribute to the maintenance of fundamental human rights in the production of goods sold by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e797	I say a thousand thanks for the answer from the minister. It wasn't as uplifting as I had thought, but just as full: let me start by saying thank you, and then let me say that I agree with the Council of State in the following: It is not appropriate for the law on the framework of public acquisitions relating to procurement to be made applicable to private individuals. I think we should look at other ways to do it for private people. What I had really hoped for from the Council of State – it should perhaps have been communicated in another way – was that she could say that she wanted to do a job, preferably through a public investigation, through other types of expert investigations, preferably through a dialogue with the business community, to look at the kind of legislation we could get in place, a code that had ensured that what is produced and sold in Norway was not produced in a way that conflicts with the fundamental human rights and that was implemented in line with Ruggie’s ‘Principles’. The reason why I say this is the following: When I go as a consumer and buy clothes, or when the young people who sit in the gallery are going to go and buy clothes, they can ask a question – and they can contribute, even if there is little fuss when they are in the box and ask, are these socks made in a way that is in line with Ruggie’s ‘Principles for Business and Human Rights’? So you can ask the question, are they made in a good way? So maybe the employees who are in the box will say, "Yes, we have in our company guidelines for this, and we're very concerned about this." But you don't know anything anymore. We know that there are still revelations, and we know that very much can be completely right in the first factory from which a company is responsible for buying the clothes from, but we have no idea how the factory conditions are with the subcontractors. Let me mention those who sell cell phones. We know that they all, most of them mobile phones, smartphones – if not all – contain minerals from one region of the East Congo, and as it is most uncertain, to say the least, whether they are manufactured in a way that is in line with what we believe to be fundamental human rights. However, it is not that the individual consumer really has the opportunity to take a proper responsibility or to make a properly informed choice about what is right and wrong. Therefore, I think we should look at: we have certifications for safety, we have certifications for power – we have ISO standards for all sorts of things. Would it not be possible to see whether a standard, a certification could be put in place, which guaranteed – for all the small purchasers and all the small enterprises – that what was produced after it would comply with the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e810	First, I want to say what I should have started by saying instead, that is, all the honour of the representative to address this question, and all the honor of young people who are on the line to put the question on the agenda. We fully agree that this is important. So I realized – and that was what I was busy responding to – that the representative asked: ‘Does the Council want to ensure that fundamental human rights are not violated by the fact that rules governing’ public ‘purchasing also apply to private business?’ I am pleased that we agree that it is not the instrument, because I believe it – deep and honest – is not. Then we've made an assessment of it now, and that might be good, anyway. One must always have far ahead in the pancreas the dilemmas you face and how this can be handled. If we have cleared that space of action out of the way, I believe that we all have a personal, great responsibility to work for human rights and for non-violence. We also have a business that has a great responsibility for the same thing. I believe in personal responsibility, and I also believe that business – at least the serious business – takes responsibility. So the question is, can we look at further measures? Well, I don't intend to reject that, it might be. But first of all – when I referred to the action plan adopted – I stand here with 13 follow-up points where only we from the Ministry of Food and Fisheries have a responsibility to assist, help, inform and work both nationally and internationally so that human rights violations do not occur. Here we need to work closely with the business community. As I said, there may be other instruments that can also become applicable, but we have first of all a work list here that we have to follow up. Then we must constantly put this on the agenda, follow closely, because none of us want to contribute to people – children – being exposed to dangerous work, to unworthy employment. We want to promote good working life, both in Norway and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e835	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an incredibly important debate. Eidsvoll Holmås refers to the fact that human rights are broken every day in many places in the world in connection with the production of goods and services. We have all seen pictures and reports from factories and businesses where people are exposed to health-damaging and poor working conditions, and where working conditions are what we can call slave labor. I think it is particularly bad to see reports where there is talk of child labour, young children who have to work very long days without special payment and get no schooling. It is important to work across policies to promote decent work, combat social dumping and ensure that fundamental human rights are not violated. I agree with the Council of State that the proposal for a new law on public acquisitions is not designed so that it can apply to the private business, and I now understand that Eidsvoll Holmås really also agrees. It is specifically designed for public activities. Extensive requirements for public activities in procurement legislation can become very demanding both economically and administratively for many of the small and medium-sized enterprises that we have in Norway. But we have a good tool in relation to what the interpellant is dealing with. The government presented a national action plan on business and human rights last year. This action plan shall make it easier for business to comply with the United Nations Guiding Principles. The principles state that business has a separate responsibility to respect human rights. It clarifies what Norwegian authorities expect from Norwegian companies, but also what businesses can expect from Norwegian authorities in terms of assistance and advice. In our country, almost slave-like conditions have also been identified in some industries. I am thinking in particular of these car washrooms that have received a lot of media attention. Unfortunately, in the construction industry, there have also been several examples of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and where black work and underpaid workers have been revealed. Sometimes it is also difficult to know who is responsible when something goes wrong, because the industry often operates with several subcontractors and unfair lines of responsibility. The government is working specifically to overcome the crime of working life, the violation of human rights and social dumping. There is a need for broad mobilization throughout working life, and an important measure is to strengthen cooperation between official controls and joint action and closer cooperation between the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. This government has provided funds for better coordination and co-located units to combat labour-life crime. In 2015, units were established in the cities of Bergen, Stavanger and Oslo, and this spring a new centre was opened in Trondheim. At these centres, employees from the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax department work together to carry out joint supervision, guidance and control of selected industries. The feedback is that these are effective measures. In order to succeed, the fight against social dumping and the crime of working life must be multidisciplinary, cross-political and transversal. The interpellant is concerned that we as consumers should be able to act ethically. Today, more and more of us are making greater demands on producers of goods and services. We want to know where the products we buy are produced, and how the human rights are protected for those who have produced the goods we buy. I agree with Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås that knowledge is important. If we know that the pants we buy at Hernes & Mauritz are produced using child labour, we'll buy one at Zara where we know that the human rights are not broken. The manufacturers know this. When human rights violations are detected, there is often a high level of negative media awareness at risk of loss of contracts and reputation for manufacturers. Serious producers will have a self-interest in ensuring that human rights are not broken and that there are good working conditions in production. Knowledge, transparency and transparency about how businesses and businesses are organised and produce their goods and services are becoming more and more important. Of course, reports requested by investors and trading partners focus on economics, but now there is a lot of focus on a three-way bottom line in the accounts: economics, social conditions and environmental conditions. This type of transparency characterises our modern times. It is good that the government has proposed to take account of fundamental human rights in the procurement legislation of public enterprises and to be at the forefront of ethical trade. This signal implies that producers who are also required to sell goods and services to the public sector must ensure that basic human rights are respected in the production process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e856	Let me begin by saying that no one can accuse the interpellant, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, of being among the last of the Stortinges, neither when it comes to proposals, nor when it comes to debates here in the hall. Although I, and probably more with me, mostly disagree with the representative, I think there is something the representatives in the next big time period will miss. A good debate prolongs as we know it. However, I believe that the interpellant has had better suggestions and better things in the hall earlier, although it is a very important matter in isolation. Next week, we will adopt the law to be followed by the public when purchasing goods and services. The Economic and Social Committee is fully in charge of that work, and of course that will also have a significant impact on Norwegian business and development there. The public sector is a major buyer and a very important player in business and employment. In Norway, public acquisitions amount to well over 450 billion. kr every year. This represents approximately 15 pst. of gross domestic product. The Acquisition Act shall ensure that these funds are used in the best possible way through cost-effective purchases, at the same time as the public sector through its acquisitions will contribute to the development of a competitive Norwegian business. As I said, we are going to debate the law on public procurement next week, but I will already, in advance of the treatment, brag by the government for the simplification and efficiency of procurement, with the aim of reducing some of the administrative burdens that have been on the public sector for a long time in terms of their procurement, while at the same time finding room to address fundamental human rights, which is a very important matter. When it comes to the question raised by the interpellant, it is difficult to imagine a law or regulation whereby all fundamental human rights are respected in the private sector in all kinds of purchases and other activities, other than the law we have today – simply because it will be very difficult to follow up. Eight out of ten enterprises in Norway have fewer than four employees. Then it goes without saying that the apparatus you have in the state, the county councils and the municipalities, is of a slightly different size, even though it has been shown in the course of the debate that it might not be what the interpellant really meant. What politicians can do, however, is to facilitate other ways for business to be based on ethical guidelines, responsible for respecting fundamental human rights. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that has focused heavily on this. As stated in the proposed new Law on Public Acquisitions, in 2011, the UN adopted guiding principles for human rights and business. This means that Member States have a clear responsibility to protect individuals against human rights violations. In accordance with the principles of the United Nations, respect for the human rights of the companies with which the State conducts business transactions should be promoted. The Government has been concerned that a level playing field is created if contracting entities require their suppliers to comply with the international rules governing the service requested and which are very important. Having a continuous political pressure on this is essential if one is to have a functioning and competitive business, in the public sector as well as in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e871	Let me start by trying to clarify one thing. It's that I don't think that the law on public acquisitions should automatically apply to business, but I think that on the part of the government, you should look at the fact that we're actually getting legislation based on risk, that it should be risk-based. If there is a risk of purchasing from a country or within a sector where there is a problem with fundamental human rights, there is a need to make demands on it and to have mechanisms to follow it up. I believe that in a few years' time, the demand from Norway for such standards will mean that certification schemes will be obtained for this, quite quickly, because third-party certification schemes are quite common in very many areas of business. That's what the Council of State knows about. It's a very straightforward way if you have a credible company, like DNV GL and others, that certifies and says, this company actually operates, even with its subcontractors, in a way that is in line with fundamental human rights. That's when I think – since I don't get my will all right right now – that I will come up with this call: When the Council of State is going to make the regulations for its new legislation, she says at the same time that the experience should be evaluated after some years to see what is the most effective way the public can actually safeguard the fundamental human rights, that one finds a way for it, and assesses whether all or part of that way can be transferable to business. I understand those who say that a company of four will have a lot of extra bureaucracy. I get it. You cannot send a company of four pieces to factories in Bangladesh to check whether it is eel or not. But we have a bunch of certifications and standards today, for electricity and for all sorts of other things, which is so that when you ask for it labeled – as it should be on all kinds of electrical installations – then you know it's in a box. It may be that we should be able to make the kind of demands on things sold in Norway. We have the Product Liability Act, which ensures that you buy something from a company, it is the company that is responsible if something is wrong. If we say that things are produced in a crazy way, something that can be wrong – which can be considered wrong with the product – then suddenly you have a responsibility, this company that sells something to someone, to make sure that what you sell is actually in line with fundamental human rights. As I said, I think there's going to be certification schemes for it if only enough big players are starting to ask for it. Then it could be transferable to business without that means a lot of extra bureaucracy. Finally, I would like to thank the young people from the Eiksmarka School for their commitment and for the draft interpellation, and thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e886	Does the Minister for Industry want the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e889	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e895	If the Minister for Economic Affairs does not wish to speak, then there is no. 4 finished. We need the Council of State to do the next thing. The President sees no other way to do it than to stop the meeting, and then it may have to be called in again. The President is very sorry about this. It is the responsibility of the departments to ensure that their councils are here when they are going to. The President does not see that we can initiate an interview with the Minister of Justice, unless the Council of State Monica Meland will respond to it – and it shakes its head. Then we interrupt the meeting. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 12.12. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 12:18. President: Ms Nybakk
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e908	The President will again remind you that it is crucial for the flow of the big meetings that the state councils are here when they are going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e924	In the book «Dialogue – on Violence, Oppression and Extremism», which I published in 2010, I met one of the world's leading researchers on radical Islamism, Professor Gilles Kepel, in France. He spoke about the turning point in our time: «battle of hearts and minds of Muslims» – the fight for the hearts and minds of Muslims – and young Muslims. It is radicalisation and Islamism that are very much at stake in the European context. We win the fight against extremism only if we are as strong as those who foreshadow it. It is important to engage in the fights for 'hearts and minds', and it is primarily on social media, but also in schools, leisure clubs and other venues where young people meet. This commitment is important at two levels: both as a preventive factor in the spread of violent and militant Islamism, and to the big community and increasing scepticism and fear of Muslims due to terrorist attacks in Europe. The terrorists in the IS just want to create a polarization and stimulate hatred between the majority and Muslims, and this is something we need to be aware of. This is why it is particularly important that politicians and country leaders take the lead with a good example and use an inclusive and unifying rhetoric – we must recognise that there is an improvement potential for individual government councils in Norway. In recent years, we have seen Norwegian citizens move to, among others. Syria and Iraq to join terrorist groups such as the Islamic State and al-Nusra/al-Qaeda. Radicalisation and violent extremism, usually with a religious and ideological sign, are global problems that must be tackled both at home and through international cooperation. Most importantly, prevention. On April 4th this year, the Parliamentary Freedom Group, which I have the honour to lead, organized a hearing on the prevention of religious extremism. Representatives from 14 different departments with relevant competence in the field contributed, including the PST. Their input demonstrated that there is a great deal of work that needs to be done in order for us to succeed in the fight against extremism. The issue is complex, and extremism in general is not bounded either by borders, religion, ideology or culture. But it often comes into religious themes and is often directed at different believers. There are a very small number of residents in Norway who are considered extremists today, and you can imagine using violence in the name of religion. That being said, extreme Islamism has nevertheless been assessed by the PST as the greatest terrorist threat to Norwegian interests. The fight against terrorism and violent extremism is real, and must be taken in all parts of society. Radicalisation is the term used for a process in which a person increasingly accepts the use of violence to achieve his political objectives, but is not linked to a specific religion, political direction or ideology. In some cases radicalisation leads to violent extremism, that is, a person actually becomes willing to use violence to achieve his political goals. Worst case, this could end in terror. In order to avoid this whole chain that starts with radicalization, we have to get on the track early. Because we have to be clear about that: it doesn't start with terror. It starts with the girl who doesn't feel valued, who doesn't have a safe friend group, who doesn't trust the police or anyone around her. It starts with the boy who feels unfairly treated. And it can be just that – a feeling. Regardless of whether injustice is real or not, such feelings can grow and become destructive if you don't have anyone you can talk to and show the way out. The road is usually long before these young people potentially end up as extremists. But there is therefore a connection between the misguided individual, radicalisation, extremism and, in the worst case, terror. Let me illustrate this feeling, which is not necessarily real, in a eaten way. There are very many Muslims in Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe who sincerely believe that they are oppressed on the continent, that they are stigmatized and that they cannot practice their religion freely. If established as the Muslim narrative, it is very dangerous. It creates outside lockers – ‘we’ and ‘them’. But first of all, the whole description of reality is completely wrong. I would therefore like to ask my Muslim fellow citizens in Europe: is it more difficult to be a Muslim in Europe than it is to be a Christian, a Hindu, a Bahai or an Ahmediyya Muslim, for example. Iran, Saudi Arabia or Pakistan? In fact, it is much easier to be a minority religious Muslim in the West than to belong to a minority religion in a Muslim country. Here perhaps some Muslims will argue against and say that my comparison is not valid. To them I would point out the following cross of thought: it is actually easier to be Muslims in Europe than it is to be Muslims in most Muslim countries. So what are we complaining about? We need to change the Muslim narrative: Muslims are not oppressed as a group – on the contrary, we have all the opportunities to succeed and to integrate into the European community. There are also very many Muslims who are actually able to do so in Norway. The Ministry of Justice's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism largely overlooks, unfortunately, the perspective of faith and life. It must be seen as a major defect, since the lack of respect for human rights to freedom of belief and life, to have a belief of their own accord, to change faith and to exercise and practice their faith often plays a major role in the justification of violent extremism and terror. This is something the government should immediately address. Organisations which are also run by IS in the dissemination and teaching of their religiously justified dogmas. In any case, it does not just hold up action in Norway; we need to cooperate with international alliances, such as the United States and Japan. IPPFoRB, an international network of parliamentarians who are obliged to work to promote religious freedom. The launch conference was actually held in Stortinget almost two years ago, where the president who is now sitting here attended, and where not least the Norwegian government contributed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. To study the big picture, we know that human rights, especially freedom of belief and life, are being broken across large parts of the world, but especially in conflict areas. The statistics show that religious diversity in a country does not explain the level of religious conflict or persecution, but the regulation of religion and the way of life by governments and society. According to Pew forum, 77 pst lives. by the population of the world in countries where freedom of belief and freedom of life is severely restricted, either by authorities or by society in general. When authorities discriminate on the basis of faith and life's views and look through their fingers with a violation of rights, they also legitimise violence in society. Violent extremism and militarisation have increased sharply in the enlarged Middle East and South Asia only in recent years. According to the Global Terrorism Index, in 2013–2014 there was a larger increase in the number of people killed by terrorism than ever before. 80 pst. of the victims came from Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan or Syria. Among those who score high at Pew's forum on these measurements, freedom of religion is not present. To put it at the top: on the international map it is such that ‘the bad guys are winning’. There will be less freedom in the world year after year. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice on behalf of the government answer how we can make the world better out there, not just here at home in Norway. Support for organisations working to promote freedom of belief and life as a fundamental right for all is particularly important. Stefanusalliansen is such a Norwegian actor, who among both grassroots and leaders in a number of countries contributes to increased understanding and respect for this central right. Although most of the violent extremism we see in the world today is taking place outside our borders, we know that there is religiously justified radicalisation in some environments at home also here in Norway. In the hearing on 4 April at Stortinget, many pointed out critical thinking. We must enable young people to have moral reflection and to question totalitarian and violent ideologies. Some have highlighted the importance of the family and the role of growing conditions in recruitment to extremism. You have to look at this in more detail. The Oslo police used the word ‘working-day prevention’ in terms of extremism. We need to integrate, but not just to prevent radicalisation, we need to have a proper integration that makes our new countrymen feel like part of our society and share fundamental values with us. We need to integrate to create a good society, but good integration also means less radicalization. It was violent scientist Ragnhild Björnebeck who, during the seminar in April, pointed out that there was too little research into the family's importance for radicalisation: what does it do with children and young people to grow up in violent homes? Is it possible to increase the risk of contracting violence later? And with the degree of respect you have for your parents and imams, neither can the betrayal that your parents or others have subjected them to as a child be taken away from the parents or society from which they originate. This hatred is therefore directed outwardly to the great community. This requires much more research, because I am convinced that Bear Basin has something to do with it; the children who have not been met with love in childhood can easily become “food” for charming radicalists. We must dare to challenge the religious community. For example, it is totally unacceptable that a Norwegian imam participated in support of the killer of the Pakistani governor Salmaan Taseer. Similarly, the environment needs to be challenged when leading Muslim figures abroad speak extreme rhetoric, as was recently illustrated in the Evening Post by the fact that the Islamic Council in Pakistan will allow a husband to commit violence against his spouse if she does not obey him sexually or otherwise. If we are to succeed as a society, we must dare to challenge the established. Then everyone must dare to take a roof. We can't be afraid to be blacked and for our own position, and we can't let evil forces stand out undisputedly. We must fight this fight not only for ourselves, but also for our children and grandchildren. It's not time to keep quiet, it's time to fight. We cannot afford to lose this battle over the hearts and minds of young Muslims. That is why I look forward to the Minister of Justice's idea of how they intend to work, both nationally, internationally and cross-ministerially, to combat religious extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e966	Let me first start by complaining that I arrived late for Stortinget. It shall not happen – and it shall not repeat itself. The interpellation of the representative Raja was originally addressed to the Prime Minister. She has asked me to answer on behalf of the government, so I hope the interpellant will thank the Minister of Justice and Defence. Based on the post, I understand that he does, and I'm glad. I would like to thank you for the commitment that the representative shows both through the interpellation and not least through a very engaging and good speech from the Parliament's pulpit on a very, very important and central theme. The prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism is a topic on which the government is very concerned, and which we have high on our priority list in our work. The representative Raja's introduction to the theme is – as I understand him – the influence of different ideologies and the lack of understanding of freedom of belief and life. This constitutes, in so far as only two of several possible factors can initiate or influence a radicalisation process. I'll come back to it in a little bit. Initially, I would like to say a little bit about the framework and the status of the government's work in the field. The Government’s action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism was launched in June 2014 and targets all forms of violent extremism. The action plan originally had 30 measures. All measures have been initiated and several have been implemented. Some of the measures are now part of the ongoing work. The action plan is dynamic, i.e. new measures should be developed based on changes in the risk profile and societal developments elsewhere. Since the plan was launched, it has come to approx. 10 new measures. These are mainly within grant schemes, research and the establishment of different international networks. In order to support and secure resources for the important work on the development of new measures, I sent letters on 2 May this year to all the departments involved. In this letter, I stress the importance that all sectors continue to give priority to contributing new things to their work. It involves, inter alia: to follow developments in its own sector, identify needs and propose new measures that may meet them. As part of Action 11, strengthening national coordination, a cross-ministerial working group has been set up to follow-up action and further develop the plan. The development of new measures is anchored in this group. A working group at directorate level also contributes to professional input. The status of all actions in the plan is updated biannually. The last report so far is from March this year, and it will be published on the government's radicalisation.no website. There is also a description of new measures taken in the last two years. As I mentioned, there are many different factors that can trigger or influence a radicalization process. What Raja is doing is promoting the influence of different ideologies and how the inability or lack of understanding of freedom of belief and life affects radicalisation and radicalisation processes. It is difficult to disagree with the representative’s perspective and involvement in this regard. We have to fight extremist ideologies regardless of whether they are on the right side or on the left side, or whether they have religious anchoring. In the 2016 Annual National Threat Assessment, the PST assesses extreme Islamism to continue to pose the greatest threat to Norwegian interests, but they also point out that there are other threats that are increasing. In the face of an ever-increasing diversity of faith and life, contact and cooperation between the various religious and life-seekers is important. In addition to the Ministry of Culture budget, support is given to key actors in the process of civic and life-seeking dialogue. The Ministry of Culture has annual discussions with these three umbrella organisations. The prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism has been one of several themes in these discussions. The Ministry of Culture has informed me that their impression is that this is a topic that the organisations themselves are very concerned about, and that they want to put on the agenda. We know that the dialogue of faith and life itself is a preventive action against radicalisation and violent extremism. It is therefore also a separate measure in the Action Plan, Action 15, Strengthen the Faith and Life View Dialogue. Faith and life-seeking dialogue is important to develop understanding and tolerance between people with different beliefs and views of life and between religious and life-viewing societies and society in general. The dialogue stimulates knowledge and mutual respect between the individual beliefs and beliefs, between the different religious and life views and for the common values on which the Norwegian society is founded. On the basis of a proposal from the Left, where Raja was one of the proposers, the Government of the Minister for Culture has agreed to draw up a communication to the Stortinge on a comprehensive policy of belief and life. It would be natural for themes such as freedom of belief and life, dialogue and prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism to be addressed. The representative Raja calls for preventive action in the youth arenas, such as home and school. Actions are addressed to these arenas in the current action plan, including: actions 9, Develop learning resources for use in secondary and secondary education and actions 19, Guidance for parents and supervisors. I will in no way claim that the home and school as key prevention areas are 100 percent covered by these measures. On the contrary, we know that there are other measures that could also be effective. But the work shows, among other things: that we are aware that these are key prevention arenas. In particular, I would like to highlight the Parental Guidance Programme in Action 19, which facilitates parents to meet and face challenges, discuss different issues and share experiences with certified supervisors. Another important purpose of this action is to form sustainable parental networks that can help prevent and follow-up children and young people at risk of radicalisation. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family has had a pilot group for the scheme at work. The project is under evaluation and the experience will be presented during 2016. In parallel with the follow-up and further development of the Action Plan for the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism, the government is preparing an action plan against anti-semitism, which is due to be launched in autumn 2016. In addition, before Christmas we aim to launch a strategy against hateful expressions. Although these work is ongoing, they have much of the basic prevention work in common. Freedom of expression is central to Norway and protected by the Constitution. This includes, inter alia: that we have to tolerate sharply worded disagreements and opinions, which may be perceived as offensive by others. But we're not going to spread, or encourage, hate. The importance of understanding and acceptance of freedom of belief and life is a theme that affects all these areas. Radicalisation and violent extremism must also be prevented by our international cooperation. Several ministries participate in relevant international cooperation on this topic. The Ministry of Justice and Defence therefore prioritises international work and exchange of experience in this field in particular. I would particularly like to refer to the Nordic arena, the Nordic network against extremism, which is one of the permanent forums in which the ministry participates. The aim of the network is to strengthen the exchange of knowledge and experience between countries, thus ensuring closer Nordic cooperation on the prevention of extremism. Overall, the government has a wide range of actions and cooperation forums that help to counteract the impact of destructive ideologies. Finally, I want to sign that the commitment that the representative Raja also shows to be clear in the message of what is to be tolerated and not tolerated, that one should be clear norm-makers, that one should see this in an overall perspective and not just assess the state of Norway, is very important for the government as well. There is no doubt that there are many minorities in different forms of belief and life that live under very bad conditions in the world. It's a focus that it's important for the government to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1002	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. Initially, my interpellation was addressed to the Prime Minister, so some of the interpellation text is addressed to a different area than the Minister of Justice, but now the government chose to send the Minister of Justice to answer foreign policy questions as well. I didn't get the necessary answers to that, but I hope that the Minister of Justice will be able to take with him the things I raised that concern foreign policy issues, how we fight religious fanaticism, extremism, the lack of freedom of religion abroad through foreign policy tools, which we have, and which we can intensify, and how we support those organisations that work out there just on those questions. The parliamentary network to which I referred is among other things: such a network to support the politicians, parliamentarians, who are at the forefront of their own countries. Here, in a secure context, we can express what we want without having any major consequences for us other than a newspaper lookup. There they get striped straight for their citizenship, as Shwe Maung was – he's rowingya, from Myanmar. He was a parliamentarian when he was here at Stortinget two years ago, and he couldn't stand for re-election because he was stripped for his rights because of religion and ethnicity. It may not be a question that the Minister of Justice can answer. The same applies to other areas of the world where we know that religion contributes to the killing of politicians, as in Pakistan, where the Minister of Minorities, Clement Shahbaz Bhatti, was killed because he raised the issue of minorities, and not least this governor who was shot by his own bodyguard because he spoke against the death penalty for the woman Asia Bibi because she drank from the same well as Christians. So many NGOs in Norway work intensively in this area, both nationally and internationally. The Norwegian NGO Minority Policy Thinking Tank – Minotenk, which I also founded, is currently working actively to develop control strategies adapted to Norwegian conditions. They give both lectures and seminars for young people and the first line. We have chosen to call it one course for SELMA, which is Arabic and means peaceful, and the way to peace is the key words throughout the course. Selma is also the name of the city from which Martin Luther King Jr. started his nonviolence march. They attend excursions, attend monthly seminars and workshops, and young people learn about democratic challenges, conflict resolution, writing techniques, public debate, networking, media management, etc. I think that a little bit of the key in Norway is that we build up under these NGOs, which can do the huge amount of work that I'm sure the state can't do in the same way, but the state contribution here will be to support under these organizations. Then I understand that the Minister of Justice cannot answer all these foreign policy challenges, but they were embedded in the Erna Solberg interpellation. But now the Minister of Justice is here, so he may still be able to face the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1013	I fully agree that it is important to support NGOs working for dialogue and understanding, and not least to demand what we actually expect of a modern world – not because we are to be imperialists or push others at our point of view, but because there are some fundamental, fundamental, rights that should apply to us all. I would like to dwell on some of the challenges raised by the representative, including: The condition of freedom of expression in the world, which is under enormous pressure. We see some of the examples the representative Raja himself mentions, but we also see that the world has become a much more dangerous place for journalists – it is far more dangerous to be a critical journalist in the world now than it was before. Ensuring that we jointly stand up for the fundamental, fundamental, rights that should apply to everyone in the world also has an important impact on the issue of faith and life. There is a lot of good work done internationally. The challenge is that unfortunately we do not get the results we would like from that effort. This is why it is important for Norway to continue to support both NGOs and others working to ensure fundamental, fundamental, human rights, because this is the real issue. Then I want to get back to national conditions, because we can also help to ensure increased efforts by the Norwegian side, including in Norway. We recently launched a separate guide to the first line in the municipalities on what to look for to assess whether religious intolerance is developing, for example, if someone develops in a direction where one might suspect radicalisation is taking place – a very concrete overview and listing that will help to enable the first line to take action as early as possible. One of the challenges here is that often too late is to come in — often radicalisation has come too far when we, as authorities, are able to discover it. I think that might be one of the biggest challenges we're facing. There, we will receive — and have received — some help from research into how to improve the direction of efforts. We work well in the Nordic network to share experiences in this area, but we have too little success in getting in early enough to prevent radicalisation. I think the representative Raja is right that there can often be quite small things that help to push the individual in a radicalized direction. We're going to be conscious of that as decision-makers and as societies. At the same time, we need to ensure that, on the other hand, we have what is not about prevention, that we have sufficient methods for police and security services to deal with the situation if prevention is not successful. However, it underlines the importance of prevention, for what you prevent, you do not have to solve it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1026	I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the representative Raja for a good contribution and for drawing up an important perspective, namely that when we are going to fight and prevent violent extremism and terrorism, we cannot just focus on combating the Ummah of the Prophet and groups that are directly attached to terror, working in terrorist networks and working for direct recruitment to them. We need to see it in a broader perspective – who we are discussing with, and what attitudes we are criticising. We can’t just work within the ‘law track’ – that is, who should be imprisoned, and who we should tackle in that way – we need to work much wider in preventing attitudes. I want to say that we have significant environments here in Norway – as I also see in parts of Oslo, where within mosques there are directions that call themselves wahhabism, salafism or other – that have some of these attitudes in which they label Norway as an infidel society. Within Islam Net, a large youth organization that gathers hundreds of young people, we see many of these attitudes to freedom of religion that there is the death penalty for converting, which can apply in Islamic states. Clearly, having these attitudes toward freedom of religion can quickly be transferred to one’s own understanding of reality. The same applies to the view on other lay, on gay and lesbian, and the view on adultery, with the death penalty for adultery, stoning, strict clothing requirements, etc. Here one has attitudes that counteract integration in Norway and that we should live together, build on common values and live in a secular society. We also see problems in that someone has a background that makes them e.g. accepts that you can beat children as part of your child's education. It creates problems when you have to live under Norwegian law. We're going to take care of children's rights here in the country. I very much agree with the angle that we need to prevent wider attitudes. If you become a follower of this kind of direction, you'll be able to take the next step towards violent extremism. There are some measures that I think we should work better with, including here at Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: – in the extension of the post held by Abid Q. Raja on states and environments that do not agree on freedom of religion, and what its consequences for their view of the world, which can also have consequences for their actions – the funding of mosques and organisations in Norway from countries that do not have freedom of religion and belief and that do not accept human rights. They finance organisations in Norway that use the money again, among other things. to invite preachers as we repeatedly see must be called hate preachers. At Islam Net's insistence on Holmlia, you wouldn't publish your speakers. I went along and criticized a scheme that was on Furuset a few years ago, where a hat preacher was invited and there were posters with burning skyscrapers, which gave some association. That event was cancelled in the last minute – for personal reasons, it said. I believe that here in Norway we should put an end to organisations that are funded by rich individuals or companies in states that do not accept freedom of religion and belief and human rights, because that would make some of these environments less alburoma and less powerful. The same applies when we grant state support to organisations and mosques. I have previously asked here whether we can impose restrictions on the support from the state, without going in order for imams to speak Norwegian in the mosque, etc. I received a preliminary response from the government at the time that it was contrary to freedom of religion and belief. I believe that it really has nothing to do with freedom of religion and belief to make the skills of those whom you consider to be imams etc. I believe that some of the points we have discussed in order to prevent this kind of attitude and this kind of environment should become more concrete in time. I think Abid Q. Raja played well for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1047	Thanks to the interpellant, both for traveling the theme and for keeping a very good main post. I also want to add that I think the list of speakers in this interview does neither the theme nor interpellant justice. This affects us all. The government – as explained by the Council of State – works on very many fronts to meet this massive challenge. There are three strategies. It is prevention, it is responding — even with the sharp end — from society, and it is international cooperation. First prevention: the government action plan, mentioned above, has attracted international and positive attention. I believe it was last year that the then US Minister of Justice visited Norway, among others. with the main aim of learning more about Norwegian tolerance work and the fight against radicalisation. A large and valuable effort is being carried out in many communities throughout Norway to stop radicalisation processes, to talk about democratic values and to make Norway a country of tolerance visible. But tolerance, of course, also has limits when faced with violent extremism. The response of society is handled and taken care of by the police and the PST, within the framework of the Bill adopted by the Stortinget. I want to commend both the police and the PST for the extensive but extremely difficult work they have on this topic – meeting it on the part of society with responses that are in line with the threat it poses to society, with democratically adopted laws and regulations. Next week, the Stortinget gets a new and big case on the table about hidden coercive measures, new tools for the police, such as: has a part of its starting point on the very theme of this debate: the increased threat that society faces from extreme groups that have democracy as their main enemy and that are brought forward on a platform of religious messages to combat democracy and our values. There is a difficult situation to deal with. It makes special demands on the law, and we get the opportunity to debate it extensively as early as the next week, in the case of hidden coercive measures. I would also like to draw up an element in Mr Bøhler's speech, which I would like to say was very good. It's about funding, about getting a better overview of the cash flows into part of these environments and the context in which they spread a hateful message with a violent undertone – if we can do more to get an overview of and chart those cash flows. I fully agree with the previous speakers that there would probably be a significant contribution, both along the prevention track and the fact that society has to react and set frameworks and boundaries if necessary. But first we have to get an overview. So I think we should go into the matter and see if we can formulate a legal framework that deals with this with the cash flows and the financing of these environments. Finally, I would like to address an additional challenge in this topic. That's the polarization that happens in society by mobilizing the counterpowers of the action as well. PST has also pointed that out. It's a dimension we have to follow closely, so that no right-wing extreme nationalists get greater leeway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1066	The reason I'm a little late is committee work, and I'm sorry I haven't heard either the interpellation or the Council's response. It is an important matter, but there is also another work that needs to be done. So there's not just a lack of interest that makes you unable to show up in time. What is being addressed today, according to SV, is one of the three major challenges ahead in the world. One is the differences and poverty. The other is climate and environment. And the third is how we're going to manage to live in layers, people that are different in both faith, origin and culture, because there's a lot of where the base of the others, who are to be hated and taken, lies. It's a big challenge for all of us, and it's a big challenge for the religions. Religions are not fragile plants that need to be protected; they are people who are fragile and must be protected. Religions are the starting point for the exercise of power. The exercise of power that we should support and support must be democratic and equal to everyone. That must be our starting point. Much in the last posts I've heard here, I totally agree. But what I haven't heard been mentioned here is a starting point that is almost similar to everyone who is extreme political or religious, and that's the view of equality, which is seen as a threat to the power that someone wants to have over others, whether it's ideological or religious. I think we have to take that very seriously, and that is why this job, like other peacemaking work, must include the girls and the women to a greater extent. It's absolutely necessary to break the power structures you want to build up. Either you call it one thing or the other, you have power over women, the symbol that you rule. We have to know that, and we have to dry up addressing whether it's religions or traditions or political, extreme ideas that front this. Then the representative, Werp, was involved in the flow of money in the world related to extremism and terrorism. It is extremely important, and it is also linked to other serious crimes that are financed in this way, and that are hidden because they have structures such as: tax havens, where those who reduce taxes, and those who – to put it that way – wash money, are involved. All of this can be done because these structures exist. That's why we have to stop it. If we are to put an end to the real great threats of terrorism and extremism, the flow of money must be stopped. SV has been particularly concerned when we talk about what we do on the basic level in Norway, which is incredibly important, that we have a good integration policy that is respectful, and where we don't talk about people of different origins than ours, or those who come here as refugees, negatively initially – that's important – and that you don't establish systems where you talk about 'the others' all the time, as if they weren't part of the community. To be part of the community is important. In these youth settings and other settings, it is also very important to have access to prevention and exit measures. I've brought that up several times with the government. These measures must be permanent and must also be elsewhere than in the major cities. It's like some of the people who are developing these ideas now, not necessarily from big cities. They might as well be from the village. The skills needed to detect this and also to ensure that those who are being messed up into it must be permanent and present and be able to use all over the country – not so much as to have money to build up exit measures, then it goes for three years, and then it is the project over. You put it down and you have to start building up your skills again. Because this is going to be permanent in the future. At least in the foreseeable future, it is going to be that way that we need such measures. It's, I think, when you go after the individual cases, a little bit randomly if you're recruited into a purely criminal environment, or if you're recruited into an extreme environment of accident. The need for belonging is so strong that one chooses such belonging when one does not have a good community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1083	I would like to thank you for all the contributions that have been made in the debate. I agree with the representative, Mr Werp – I would prefer more people to participate. I would assume that all the representatives of big business agree that our most important task as politicians is the security of our citizens, and as far as the security of our citizens is concerned, what can be done here in Norway is not isolated, because the security of our citizens is also threatened by what is happening internationally, beyond our borders – not only what is happening on the continent, but also what is happening across the continents, far beyond what is a domestic policy debate. If we are to be able to prevent, we need not only to prevent in the areas and in the arenas that exist here in Norway – and not just Muslim environments, because right-wing radical environments are also emerging across Europe – we also need to look at this across borders. When it comes to integration, we also have to think more about new things. In Norway and on the large European continent, it is typical to assess integration in four ways: You look at languages – have you learned the language or not – education, lawfulness and work. And then you measure the integration based on it, done with it. In principle, only the entrance ticket to what is to constitute the community of values or disagreement on which Norway is founded. If we cannot address the major challenges posed by the concepts of ‘freedom of expression’, ‘ equality’ and ‘democracy’ and are unable to transfer the values to new citizens and citizens who come here, we have not come far at all. It's a big trip that very many people have to take, and we have to dry it out. It doesn't make you racist in any way, but it must be possible to say that when you come from another country, far away and have grown up, for example. in rural areas in Pakistan for 25 years – I can illustrate this by using Pakistan as an example, since my parents come from there – and for example. Married to Norway or come to Norway in another way, the physical journey takes only six to seven hours, and then you are here. But the mental journey, and that's the one we have to question: how long does the mental journey take – to move from a completely different reality to the Norwegian or Western reality? We differ significantly from other countries in Europe. We're different from France, England, and also parts of Sweden, as we see in the media, that don't get it. But if we are to succeed in our task – which is the most important task for us politicians – of ensuring the security of our citizens, we must do a great deal of work in Norway, both in right-wing radical groups and in growing radical Islamic groups. We need to cooperate with European countries and look at European integration policies as a whole, but we also need to work across continents and see how religious extremism grows and where freedom of religion is under pressure. Here, the government must do a great deal of work to implement the good values that we have fought in Norway and in Europe for a long time, even in distant distances than ours. We in the Left will contribute in the way we can, together with the Government and the Storing, so that we can get there that we guarantee our citizens the security they claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1094	I think this debate really shows a very strong strength in Norwegian democracy, because it has been a good debate. Although not many have spoken, everyone who has spoken and participated in the debate has shared the same basic view. Everyone has been concerned that this is one of the most important challenges we face, both nationally and internationally, and there has been a strong commitment from all the parties who have spoken in the matter. I also think it is good to have a good basis for the job that the government is going to do, both nationally and internationally. Having that support in the work that we get through the visibility of these views in the Storting today is very positive. It also says something about the value of freedom of expression, democracy and dialogue. I think it's kind of a summary of a very important, good and engaging debate. I would also like to say a few words about the outcome of Mr Raja's question of integration. There is no doubt that in Norway too, there are major challenges to integration. It's about a lot of different relationships. I am very pleased that it now appears that good and important steps are being taken in the right direction, both through the work that has taken place in government, and – not least – through the work that is now in progress in Stortinget. The fact that one has broad, good discussions about how to conduct an integration policy that helps prevent radicalisation is very important. But it's also about more, because it's not just Islamist extremism that is potentially threatening the stability of a society. I think it was the representative of Werp who was involved in it in his post. In PST’s threat assessment there is a trend towards growth in the far right environment in Norway. The challenge could be to help raise the level of conflict in society in general. It is a development that is very worrying and which we, as responsible politicians, must contribute to reducing as much as possible. That is why the action plan is also aimed at extremism as such, not just Islamist extremism, but extremism as such. I finally want to give some kind of encouragement. As I have been aware that this action plan is dynamic, it is also open to further improvements and input to strengthen this work together. The action plan is important because it coordinates the overall effort in this field. That is why I have taken initiatives towards the departments involved. But I also think it may be relevant to include input from this debate that one can also get other types of input into the further development of this action plan, which should be dynamic. Fortunately, progress is so good that we check out some of these measures along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1105	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1121	It is fundamental in our society that children and young people should have the right to safe conditions for growing up at school, at school and in their neighborhood, and that parents should know that when their children go to school, they have a safe environment. It is particularly important that schools are prevention venues, where we are just about to prevent drug problems, prevent crime and give children a good start to life. This is mainly the case in our schools, there is no doubt about it, but I have been getting up over the years, and especially in the last year, from parents expressing concern that it is being traded, long-term, drugs in the schoolyards targeting the students, and that, as we have seen before, it is not happening only at some of the secondary schools, but that it is also increasingly happening down the secondary school stage, in 9-10. class. I myself have visited the schools where this has been the most topical issue, and have confirmed the impression, and also that there is concern about this among school managers, advisers and teachers working on this. They want us to take it more seriously together. I have also seen myself in the neighbourhoods where I live, in the Grorud Valley, but also in people contacting me, that there is an increasing number of activities from drug networks in neighbourhoods, in areas around centres, T-Bahn stations – where children and young people travel – in parks, etc. I have also had a lot of contact with the police about this, and they have confirmed the same impression that the activity aimed at children and young people and at the schools of the drug networks is increasing. Last night on TV 2 yesterday, the police confirmed that, among other things, is responsible for the Groruddalen, Stovner Police Station, this. Only in the first three to four months of this year, the police in Oslo seized 1.1 tonnes of cannabis/haze, and they say that the market is now so big – it is so active and so much access to drugs – that they do not see any decrease in activity even if they make so much seizures. Of course, the strength of drug networks is uncertain when it does not seem that they are reducing their activity after so much seizures. There are also other substances: pills are sold in the same drug networks and also stronger drugs. So it's not just limited to cannabis and hassle that children and young people can be exposed to. In the four districts for which they are responsible, the police at Stovner also reported, for their part, an increase in violence among children and young people in 2015 and a special increase in December and January, which are the latest figures I have heard. Much of it may be related to the settlement of money, who is to sell drugs, where — various disputes among those involved in these drug networks. The consequence is that we have students who are engaged. Their parents have described to me that they get three units of drug users, sell two and get the last for their own use. In this way, among children and young people who are engaged in this activity, they are also at high risk of becoming addicted and developing addiction, linked to their participation and selling. We get reports, as the police also told us on TV 2 yesterday, that there is concern in the classes, and that there is less concentration on the teaching where this occurs. We see that in these areas there are large drop-outs from high school. The drop-out numbers are up to 40 pst. in the four parts of the valley of Grorud, which I mentioned, the south side of the north, and the east side of the east side of Oslo. Some dropouts hang around the school — tell the schools themselves and the police about — and act as a mixture of longer and more addicts. They do not go into school hours, but have the right to attend high school, stay in the school area and do that type of activity, which of course creates a major problem in the school environment. I mentioned that there has been more violence. Violence is also linked to students who tell teachers, school management and the police that it is being traded, longed, drugged, and that they are being pressured — as they also say — to buy, that they can be beaten up and subjected to threats. I don't want to say that this in any way characterises the schools that are most vulnerable, but it's a significant problem that parents, police and I – based on my own experiences and visits – have to say is clearly increasing. We can't sit and see that kind of growth conditions exist. I mean, of course, the most important thing is to focus on what we can do with this. I expect that there is a broad consensus that we cannot allow the situation to continue. I think we need a common campaign, a joint effort, a common blinketang maneuver – if we are to use such an expression – where five actors join forces. We are citizens – we who participate as active citizens of society in the areas where this is most relevant, in voluntary organisations, as individuals concerned with our environment and our future – in cooperation with the police, the schools, the urban areas, which are then part of the Municipality of Oslo, or also the municipalities in other areas of the country, and in interaction with the central authorities and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. If we're going to take a first point, it's important to develop interactions on: there's a striking difference between schools in how they cooperate with the police. It is obvious that if you operate within the limits and rules of the law, it is that if there is reasonable reason to investigate whether there is drug trafficking — according to the old penal code § 224 — if the school administration and the school owners consider that there is reasonable reason to study common areas, areas in the schoolyard, etc., without any personal search by anyone, the police will be able to bring a dog to their notice. Several schools say that you do not take what you sell of drugs into the classroom, but that it is hidden around inside and outside the school. The police tell of very different levels of activity from the schools involved in contacting and initiating this interaction, and some schools say that the police have not had the opportunity to come when they have asked for it and they have had that kind of suspicion and situation. When there is reason to suspect individuals — as it is obvious, from some of the descriptions that emerge — one is within the legal framework in terms of various grounds for suspicion, and can use the trail that can be used throughout society, including when it comes to studying students, and where there are various grounds for suspecting that drugs are being sold. So there's a room for action for greater interaction between schools and the police within the applicable laws and regulations, and I see some schools that do this in a good way, and where the problem is smaller, and other schools that have to a lesser extent activated in this. I expect it to be an expression of the school's reputation, that the school should appear to be safe and good, and that there should not be rumors that there are drug sales there, etc., but I think you do yourself a bear service if you don't pick up your gloves and solve the problems as they are. The second point I want to mention, and that is not at first, is that we also need an increased response to the drug networks behind it. Strong communities and criminal groups are responsible for the introduction of these substances. They are responsible for the organisation of the networks and are looking for new rivals and new places to sell and have now increasingly responded to children and young people, in school environments and the neighbourhoods around the schools. There I hope that the ministry will think in the same way as it did at the time in 2006, when a rendezvous project was launched when there was a special problem, provided input from what is now called the Co-ordination Council, and made a concentrated effort to resolve these drug networks. It's clear it'll only get more and more taller if you don't get to take the ones behind the big turnover as well. I will discuss several measures later in the debate, but that is what I got for the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1153	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing a topic that is very important. Unfortunately, the development to which the representative of Bohemia refers, among other things: in Oslo School, not only is a trend that you can see in Oslo School, but one also sees it in some other schools in other parts of the country. It's actually a little paradoxical, because we're in a situation where juvenile delinquency in general actually goes down, while you can see that this kind of activity is going up. What is particularly worrying is that one sees that this is increasingly falling into class steps. This is no longer something that a single person finds in high school, one finds it now down in high school, and it makes it very critical. There is some concern when you might say that we have a smoke-free school, if you can't say that we have a drug-free school. The challenges that the representative of Bohemia addresses are potentially dramatic for those who are exposed to this – in fact, they can be ‘life changers’ in a negative sense. You might get into an environment that's hard to get out of. We hear stories, including the representative of Bohemia, about the pressure, about 'dealing', about being subjected to other types of serious acts if one has not followed up in the environment of which one has suddenly become a part. The police are already doing very important prevention work today. One of the things that I think has a very great effect is information work for parents, combined with the possibility of talking about concerns with the person who might have been in such an environment, is on the way into such an environment, may have been under pressure, and may have been a user, but who gets a proper conversation with the police and parents, offering follow-up, where one can be asked to give urine samples voluntarily, to make sure he is out of it. It is an important measure at individual level, but in many ways it does not solve what is the basic, fundamental problem if the school becomes a trading venue for different drugs. The school must be a safe arena. It shall be an arena to which the parents know that it is safe to send the children to, and there shall be an arena where the children thrive, where the children know that they are not exposed to serious conditions, threats, etc. Then there are many measures that can be assessed and used in such a type of setting. It's designed its own strategies for how the police can interact with the schools. Then it's true that School-Norway is a multiplicity. There are many different attitudes to these issues in schools, particularly in relation to methods of cooperation with the police. It is important that cooperation between school and police is as close and as close as possible. In the past, we had the opportunity, as the representative of Bohemia, to go to schools with a drug dog and search through areas. It was a practice that was stopped, after it was concluded that it could be contrary to human rights. It is in many ways demanding to understand, because the purpose of such a work is, of course, so incredibly good. On the other hand, data protection considerations are also involved, where it is dependent on the existence of a suspicion of that type of search. However, in schools where the school itself considers that there is a serious problem and it is necessary to want the police to come in and search, it must be possible to find a framework for this activity that can be carried out even within the framework of human rights. We've started a work in the department to further explore what space of action is actually available. There are now guidelines from the National Advocate General on how this should be done, based on the framework set up today. We further explore whether there are additional opportunities to contribute and assist, to ensure that an effective use of what I would call a prevention activity that, in my opinion, will have a very significant impact. Schools cannot be a haven for drug trafficking. We cannot, as responsible politicians, sit and look at this. It cannot be seen by the schools, nor will the police, of course, be able to sit and watch. Then there is always a balance between prevention without criminal prosecution and prevention through criminal prosecution. For many of these children, of course, it would not be a good first meeting with the police to get involved in a criminal case where drugs are part of it, which will eventually be inflicted on the same person – I had almost said – history. But on the other hand, there are many other measures that can help one not to put oneself in such a situation. It is therefore necessary to involve many parties in this cooperation, in order to prevent drug trafficking in schools. I myself was at a school in Sandnes last year — quite a short time after school — together with the Norwegian Narcotics Association, which really has a very good information system for young people. They make themselves available, they have well-available information material, it's easy to ask questions, and they have a follow-up of those young people who are at school, who are very rewarding. I talked to many of the students after this marking was completed, and it was just positive reactions. There were no negative reactions to the police being present, both uniformed and not uniformed, to help inform and follow up. We also got a lot of good feedback on how youth environments can evolve, from something that is negative to something that is positive, and the opposite. It is in the situation it evolves from a good school environment to a poor — and perhaps dangerous — school environment, through drug trafficking and what it leads to in schools. So I think it's necessary to look closely at what opportunities we're going to have together. I also agree with the inter-pellant that as citizens, regardless of our position and whether we have children in school or not, we have an important responsibility to contribute to schools being drug-free. It may be through awareness-raising work, it may be through non-governmental organisations, but it may be primarily through being good fellow citizens, caring for each other and contributing to those who need help — as young people, who, of course, do not want to talk to their parents about this. Having other adults to go to and that these take responsibility is important. The police, of course, are a very fundamental partner. Police are doing a lot of good work to prevent, and there is a lot of good work done by the police, too, after drug crime has been committed. But the key here is enough, I think, in the school-parent axis. We have to be clear in our expectations for parents in terms of mind-creating work for their own children. We must also be clear to the school in anticipation of zero tolerance for any form of drug use and, of course, turnover at school, and that the school has procedures for contacting the police in situations where they feel that crime is being committed within the school framework. As a school owner, you have a lot of opportunities to ask for police assistance, which I think is being used too little today. So the municipalities have a special responsibility as the school owner to facilitate that the dialogue and the prevention activities that we rely on can actually happen. Then I fully agree that, as far as it evolves in the direction we have now seen – to a greater extent than what we have witnessed now – we can also assess whether we need to launch further national measures, so that an even stronger supporter from a national team can also be. The main contribution there may be, first, that the framework currently available for the use of, among other things. prevention dogs in schools, are actually used and exploited in the police districts, in cooperation with the schools, but it is also possible to assess whether there are additional areas of action that can help to further develop these guidelines. So I think that the commitment to this that is expressed in very many circles will be an important contribution, but we also have to remember that here's the strong counterpower. There is a strong liberalisation movement in Norway. It is a strong, criminal environment that wants to exploit schools and school students to secure a future customer base. There are counterpowers that can be tough to fight, but of course it should not help to make the fight less intense, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1183	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good article. The Council of States must take care of that! I agree with all the Council of State said, and I am pleased that he sees the perspective that selling drugs in the schoolyard cannot be risk-free. I am told that in the schoolyard it is safer to sell than on the street, because there is less risk of being taken. We can't look at that. I've seen that schools have taken initiatives. Rector of Bjørnholt School in Søndre Nordstrand, Oslo, told me yesterday that the teachers are now out there in the area around the school in every recreation area. They are present in the outdoor environment to follow up on this. But then they also need a good interaction with the police when they get into situations, which they also do. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he will consider further national measures. I would like to stress, when the Council of State referred to liberalisation as a perspective here, that I have seen surveys that have shown that 10-13 pst. Norway has been in favour of liberalisation, but there are none of the parties. I should like to see the person who thinks it is all right to sell drugs to children and young people in high school, and that it has something to do with legalization. Those who mix up these debates, I think, to put it mildly – unparliamentaryly – are all on the ground. What I want to follow up on is how to respond when children and young people are recruited to longer and how to follow them up by the police. In the area that I know best, the Groruddalen, the police are now using the new Youth Penalty in 50 p.m. of matters relating to children and young people. Agreements are then concluded on, inter alia, urine sampling, which is in place in different parts of the city, so that it is difficult for the police to practice it. They need it to be put in place by city councils and municipalities. I would also like to ask the Council of State to be aware that when police districts are to practise the juvenile sentence in a good way, it requires follow-up throughout the criminal course – a lot of work. It is not considered in respect of resource allocation. You have to look at the resources to work with the juvenile punishment. Much of the contact that sends out signals about where it is sold and establishes the networks is done through various online chat programs. The Stovner police have applied for grants to establish a online patrol on drug trafficking, in order to get that work started. I must say thank you so much, but, as I said, I am very pleased with the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1203	Let me first thank the interpellant for good words. I think the engagement shown by the interpellant in this question is very commendable. I think it's an important commitment that's taken up both in the interpellant and not least in the interpellant's posts. It is not acceptable that we can be in a situation where some schools are seen as a kind of sedentary for drug trafficking, because the police do not go into and implement the measures they would otherwise take, in an area where there is a known drug trafficking. If you compare with the police work in e.g. The open-ended drug setting offers a significantly greater opportunity to carry out studies where the impression is given of the possibility of preventing school placing on the market. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that those who combine the liberalisation debate with sales in schools are all on the ground. The challenge is that the liberalisation debate often goes on Facebook and the Internet and affects attitudes. This is where we often face a challenge of counterpower if we are not good enough to disseminate information that shows something about the consequences of drug use and drug abuse. If you can't get to the youth with what I feel is right, you can quickly get into a situation where attitudes towards youth are also negatively influenced, which in a way helps to legitimize such activity in schools. It is totally unacceptable, and it is absolutely essential that we put in what is possible from efforts to reach our young people, so that we can make it possible for them to make their own independent choices and to distance themselves from drugs. I am also concerned that youth punishment and youth follow-up are very good instruments, but it is too late. The main prevention takes place in many ways before it becomes a criminal offence. Once it has become a criminal case, you have it on your scroll forever and can affect life in a lot of areas. It is necessary and important to focus as much effort as possible to prevent and help people before they have become a criminal offence. Of course, in cases where criminal proceedings have taken place, it is important to exploit the space for action and the opportunities offered by youth follow-up and juvenile punishment. In that case, the necessary resources must be set aside for it to have the necessary effect. If we don't really risk it works the other way around, you're going to feel like you haven't got anything left for the effort that's being put down to help your youth back and up to speed. There is, to a large extent, a resource issue, primarily for the municipalities, which have to make the necessary resources available to ensure that follow-up to juvenile sentences and follow-up is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1214	I would also like to commend the interpellant on this issue we are discussing here. Also in this interpellation, we have an interpellant that actually shows an commitment that is very pricey. The right starting point is that drugs — including drugs, of course — are totally unacceptable in the school environment. It poisons the school environment, it undermines the school as the learning arena, and for some it could be the first step into a criminal racetrack. Some of the conversations that have made the deepest impression on me as a politician are related to this very topic, also the time I was a rapporteur and got school students in my office who told me about exactly what the interpellant is talking about, a school environment that experienced both the sale and use of drugs at school. The same conversations, but with new students, I feel more strongly now, as a staging representative. Of course, I'm concerned that there's at all as a topic, but when I say let's go out together, you and I, I as a politician, you as a student, we go to the press or the police or those who actually have the opportunity to put this on the agenda in a larger context, they don't dare, for fear of what consequences it will have for them if they stand up and describe this problem as they experience. It is just an illustration that this is more than drug abuse. This is a situation that creates fear and makes it even more difficult to learn at school. There is no one in this room, I suppose, who has any illusions about what drugs are about. Drug use in schools is the ultimate part of a criminal industry of enormous proportions, with countless and bottomless human tragedies as a result. By experiencing drug sales, drug turnover and use in schools, it also contributes to generalising drugs as such in society for the generations that come after us. It's part of making it harmless, it's part of camouflaging the cynical crime that's behind the fern of cool youth culture. That's why we have to be better at finding out what action rooms we have to meet this problem in schools to a greater extent than today. There are many measures that we can use and that are used, prevention measures – that is good and good, but do more! But back to the same students that I referred to. All of them – without exception – point to one measure that they are fully convinced of is the most effective, which would deliver results as quickly as possible and which would also provide the most long-term results. It's that the police come back to the schools for random sampling. It's continuous. These are conversations I've had over the years with different students all the time, and everyone has the common conclusion. So I'm happy with what the council says, just to figure out: is there a room for action? And if it doesn't exist, can we do something about it anyway? Thank you again for the inter-pellant. I am following with joy – I hope at least I can – a development in this matter on the basis of a common objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1231	I don't think there's any problem finding a common goal in this case. I think everyone is quite a few that the school should not be a crime scene in general, and the school should not be an arena for the use of legal or illegal drugs. We can have a long debate on how to prevent it. I mean, of course, it's about parents. It is about health sisters, and it is about good teachers who are present. I still take the word to remind the Storting of what was the background that what all previous speakers are asking for and wanting, simply random police raids on the schools, were stopped. In the interpolation, the interpellant writes: ‘The police had previously good experience with preventive school visits with drug dogs, but this has fallen due to this. new rules.’» That's not correct. It is not lost because of new rules. It fell away because someone was pretty enough to ask questions about whether the principle of legality was actually present here. The clear conclusion was that it was not. It is not the case in Norway that one can carry out random checks, either by elephants or by other citizens, with drug dogs or other, without separation of grounds for suspicion. It is an incredibly important limitation that is not only human law, as the Minister of Justice pointed out, but also in our own criminal law. If representatives from Bøhler, Werp or others would like to remove that restriction, they would like to suggest it in Stortinget. I think that would be a very bad idea. Then I want the Minister of Justice, when he has the floor again, to cancel what he said in his speech. What the Minister of Justice said was that it is difficult to understand that human rights should set limits here, because their purpose is good. That the intention is good can be said of much, which, however, will not be covered by criminal law or by the European Convention on Human Rights. When one chose to quit with random investigations without suspicion, there was no legal doubt that it was wise to do so. If the Minister of Justice found it hard to understand that an end to it, I would like to have the basis for it. So, the representative, Werp, that he's talking to a lot of elephants who think this makes sense, and that we need to have more random controls without suspicion. Then I want to remind you of who told you that this is not correct. It was the Student Organization. The student organization provided an alert on lawsuits because they reacted to an invasion of the private sphere by the elephants with a purely preventive aim. The fact that the public didn't immediately take a fight about it, but said ok, we end, tell me one thing, and that's that here a very good one knew that one didn't have the right place for that practice. If anyone wants to introduce such permits, they have to suggest it and take the discussion, but I think there's a good reason why a shouldn't. It's not just a principle. I also mean purely practical, for those students who are tired of rushing, and we will take this very seriously, also often with the school and with the attendance at the school. I don't think what those students need is a reason not to show up at school in fear of random checks in the classroom without suspicion. I think it'll do a lot more harm than it'll do well. When you're going to fight serious crime, you often get very excited. It's good that one should be, but one should not forget the basic principles of law that underlie the rule of law that we all build on and are happy with. Then I believe that the Minister of Justice and others are concerned about so-called liberalisation movements in Norway. There aren't so many characters to it in the big room anyway, but I see that unfortunately one goes beyond new human rights barriers just because of that concern. For example, the municipality of Elverum has just decided that it should not be lawful to wear effects or clothes that express support for the liberalisation of the drug law system – i.e. a pure opinion – guaranteed in violation of Grundlova § 100. Once again, we need room for debate, and human rights must be grounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1253	For the last article, I would like to say that I think it is a pity that every time we discuss how to stop the increased length of drug use against children and young people in schools and create safe arenas in schools, you run the same debate without listening to what is said. What I said was that within the current laws and regulations and within what Stortinget has decided, schools that are active in this can develop an interaction with the police where you get a lot, while others don't do it to the same extent. What I was quoting from was the Oslo Police Guidelines, which they have had since October 2011, where it is called, and this is the basis for today too, that when there is reasonable reason to investigate — not a cause for suspicion — that drugs are being hidden in the common areas of school outside the school, the police can come and do so with dogs without the need to investigate individuals. In the same guidelines for the Oslo Police – as the Stortinget clarified in the 2012 treatment, to which Rotevatern refers – it is already stated in 2011 that in case of individual student search, either consent must be given by each student, and consent must be free and informed, that is, the same as the Stortinget specified in decisions that I myself took at that time. Then, of course, in addition to what is true of society as a whole, when there are various grounds for suspicion and the school has reported a lack of reason for suspecting students about the sale of drugs, you can also search individuals who can be found in the whole community and in school. What I'm looking for is that there really shouldn't be any difference between the practice you have in the schoolyard and the practice you have in, for example. open drug settings in Oslo, around Greenland and Akerselva, to which the Council of State referred. There's a lot to go on, and then I would have hoped that the Left could also join in looking at the possibilities to combat this in a safe, safe and good way within human rights and students' privacy rather than trying to create a rhetoric and add arguments that we don't use. I hope that this will not affect the impression of this debate that has now begun, because now I wish that we could take this seriously on a common basis, and that is why I am very pleased with the input from the representative, Mr Werp, and for the input from the Council of State. Wasp also told of his experience as rapporteur, where he had been visited by school leaders and students who told about the same thing. I also hope for a positive development in this case, that we can go beyond the narrow discussion that was brought up here in the last round, that we can get more done together to give students a safe school day and to implement measures that can work better than they have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1264	Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant for drawing up a very important theme that engages the Storting very much, and where there is also very broad support for the interpellant's vision. I'm very happy about that. A few words related to Rotevatten's articles and questions. I guess what I'm saying was that you can ask questions about understanding that human rights set limits on this as well. Of course you do. We're dealing with human rights on this issue as in all other questions, and that's why I was very clear in my post that what we have to do is find the space of action that is actually within the legal framework that exists. And then, in many contexts, the purpose of a measure is very good, but the constraints still lead to a failure to implement it. It can sometimes be hard to understand, but it's not hard to relate to -- there's two different things. So I think very intensely that our children deserve a drug-free school, and I mean it so intensely that we have to do what we can, both as school owners, as politicians and as adults, to contribute to it. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has been present during much of the debate and has received several of the contributions that have been made in this area. It is useful in the work and cooperation that both the Minister of Knowledge and me and the government and the municipality, as school owners, have to be involved in to help our kids get a safe everyday life in school, and it has to be drug-free. It provides a special strength when the representative, Mr Werp, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Justice and the former rapporteur, tells of meetings with young people who say themselves, on their own initiative, that the only thing that works is random control. It has to kind of give us a balast, also, that makes us have to take those concerns seriously. Then there are many measures that can be implemented. Many of those measures have been discussed by the pulpit of the Grand Duchy today. It's very good, it has to be systematized and done in a proper way. Of course, the police must also give priority to these issues, so that when schools contact and say that there is a traffic of drugs taking place, the police must also have the resources and capacity to come and help and help to ensure that the school is free of drugs. No matter what the type of school it is, the school should be drug-free, but I have to say that it does extra harm when you hear that drugs are being transferred to high school children. What kind of assumptions do we, as a society, have to make it easier for the kids to move on in life – it's a heavy responsibility for this hall as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1275	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1289	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1296	Thanks to the proposers, who have made sure that the Stortinget discusses the sign language's position in society, and not least in school. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The very first sentence of the Committee's comments is not to be mistaken, where it is underlined that: ‘that everyone is entitled to a language and that no one is to be discriminated against because of the language’. It is estimated that there are about 16 500 sign language users in Norway. These are deaf and hearing-impaired, family members and friends of sign-language and sign-language professionals. For many of these, sign language is the most important form of communication you have. Being able to use a language and communicate is about being able to participate, making yourself understood, and that is a condition for being able to evolve. Through the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Norway has undertaken to recognise and promote the use of sign language. The Committee stresses that the sign language is a fully-fledged language and that the overall public responsibility for the sign language is anchored in several places in the law. The starting point of the Committee is that the sign language has a basic value in itself, as a necessary form of communication and as an identity mark and cultural expression for a linguistic minority in Norway. Although the responsibility for the overall language policy lies with the Ministry of Culture, it is essential for the remit of the Education Committee as well. There is an overall committee dedicated to the care, security and strengthening of Norwegian sign language both in school and in other areas of society. Primary and secondary education is a municipal and county responsibility, and the vast majority of deaf and deaf people attend local schools. As the Education Committee, we are particularly concerned with all those who are entitled to sign language training, by providing them with a quality training offer that is appropriate to the individual’s needs. I would like to draw up here the letter of reply from the Council of State, which gives a thorough account of the various parts of the proposal for a representative. In particular, the Committee notes that the Council of State announces a review of Section 2-6 of the Training Act in order to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the needs of deaf and hearing impaired people today. In this context, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to consider the introduction of a right to sign language training for related children who have a particular need for it. It is also a joint committee that considers it positive that the Education Directorate looks at different models of offering sign language training for related pupils in primary and secondary schools. For example, this can be done by offering elective courses. In the light of these ongoing processes, it is worth mentioning that the proposers have chosen not to present proposals 4 to 6 of the draft representative. Statped plays an important role as a competence centre and service provider for sign language training in Norway. That's where the competence lies, and it's Statped that's in many ways naved in the organisation and guidance work for sign language users. The Committee is well aware that Statped has been through a comprehensive reorganisation. This has had consequences for the sign language area and also for the State sign language school offering. The reorganization of Statped has been aimed at ensuring that all students with special needs receive an equivalent level of quality training, regardless of where they live. It is important for the Committee that this objective be kept high, that it be evaluated and that these objectives be achieved and that the services provided by Statped ensure that the social mandate of Statped is respected, including in the case of sign language users. The Committee follows closely and will follow closely the processes of the reorganisation and, at the same time, asks the government to come back to the Storting when the final outcome of work on a plan to strengthen national tasks in the sign language field is available. It is a joint committee on the main intentions of the draft representative. Then there is some disagreement about process and progress on how best to fulfill the intentions. But there is a clear expectation from all parties that the government will follow up St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008, Objective and meaning, St.meld. No 23 for 2007-2008, Language build bridges, and Meld. St. 18 for 2010–2011, Education and Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1323	The case rapporteur had a good review of the case. It is important to stress from this pulpit that everyone has the right to a language, and no one should be discriminated against because of the language. Through the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Norway has undertaken to recognise and promote the use of sign language. Sign language has a basic value in itself, as a necessary form of communication, and as an identity mark and cultural expression for a linguistic minority in Norway. The Norwegian Federation of Deaf Persons estimates that it is about the same. 16 500 people using sign language in Norway today. These are deaf and hearing-impaired, but also family members and friends of sign-language and sign-language professionals. The right is concerned with the care, security and strengthening of Norwegian sign languages, both at school and in other areas of society. I would therefore like to highlight in particular the growing communication on a comprehensive Norwegian language policy. Language builds bridges, but it is especially important to promote the development of sign language. The right is concerned that all those entitled to sign language training are provided with a quality training offer and adapted to the individual’s needs. Most hearing - impaired and deaf students attend municipal and county schools. It is therefore important that municipalities properly respect the rights of sign-language users. In particular, Statped's role as a competence centre and not least as a sign language training service provider is very central. Statped has in this way, through its extensive reorganization, led to some changes in the way in which services are provided in the sign language field. In particular, there have been such changes in the national sign language school offer. It is therefore very important to note that the Directorate of Education has been commissioned to follow up and assess this reorganisation and to see if it has had the desired effect, and not least the most important thing: whether the primary target groups have been well cared for. This work is looking forward to getting good feedback on. The right has also looked forward to the government’s review of the Training Act §2-6, which aims to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the needs of deaf and hearing impaired people today. Letters of allocation from the Ministry of Knowledge to the Directorate of Education have asked for the development of a plan of initiatives to strengthen nationwide tasks in the field of sign language. And Statped has submitted proposals with various measures that are being discussed in the ministry. Statped’s social mandate is to help children, young people and adults with specific training needs to be active in education, work and social life, in line with other citizens. The reorganisation of Statped has been aimed at ensuring that all students with special needs receive an equivalent level of quality training, regardless of where they live in the country. It is important to carry out a thorough evaluation after reorganisation to assess whether it has had the desired effect, and then it is important that the user perspective is properly taken into account in such an assessment. The sign language is a full language and the overall public responsibility for the sign language is anchored in several places in the law. On the right, the role of the school in the development of sign language in society will be highlighted in particular. The need for the recruitment of sign language interpreters is also important, and the Right considers that training in sign language based on interests, and not just on needs, will help to ensure such recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1340	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation in the matter and for a thorough presentation of the matter. This proposal by the Left contains a number of good proposals, and we in the Progress Party are pleased that there is a cross-political agreement to strengthen the position of the sign language. In 2012, the Progress Party itself promoted a proposal to introduce sign language as an electoral profession in school, as proposed by the Left now. I also register and am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has asked for an assessment of the right to receive sign language education for related students in both primary and secondary schools. The language is the most important thing we have to be complete fellow citizens. Culture, communication, school and participation — all this depends on our mastering the language. We have approx. 400,000 hearing impaired and about 5,000 deaf in Norway today. The Norwegian Federation of Deaf Persons estimates that it is about the same. 16 500 people using sign language today. These are deaf and hearing-impaired, family members and friends of sign-language and sign-language professionals. Unfortunately, the number of people able to communicate through sign language is very close enough. This creates difficulties for the deaf and hearing impaired in their everyday lives. It is therefore very important to strengthen the efforts in the field of sign language. The Progress Party is concerned that we should have a good policy in this area. We are also pleased that the government is committed to implementing practical policies and has launched a number of measures to strengthen hearing-impaired and deaf people. Among other things, the communication of languages has been followed by the Ministry of Culture through the Language Council, and there is the Statute that they should take into account the overall language situation in the country. The language situation also includes Norwegian sign language. The 2015 and 2016 allocation letters state that the Language Council will work to strengthen and make Norwegian Sign Language visible. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge has also asked the Directorate of Education to draw up a plan aimed at strengthening cross-border tasks in sign language. Statped has been reorganised and has been given the objective that all students with special needs should receive an equivalent level of quality training, regardless of where they live. Statped’s social mandate is: ‘helping children, young people and adults with specific training needs to be active participants in education, work and social life in the same way as others’. Furthermore, it has been decided to require all primary school teachers who teach Norwegian sign language to be immersed in the subject. This shows that there's a lot of positive happening in this area, but there's a need for it to be done more. The left, in its proposal, shows that the Storting has decided to draw up a big message. The letter from the Minister of Knowledge to the Committee on this matter explains that no plan is to be drawn up, but priority is to be given to practical measures to remedy the situation of sign-language users in society. Furthermore, the proposal refers to the fact that government parties do not follow up previous proposals from 2011, to ‘for the time being avoid the closure of state primary schools in the hearing area’. The reality is that the schools were closed down by the red-greens, and today there are only two state schools left in the field, for which Statped is responsible. The most important thing for the Advancement Party in the future is to ensure and maintain a good training offer for children and young people, regardless of where you live in the country. I have previously shown in my article that this is being followed up by the government. We also look forward to the announced review of the Training Act §2-6, and how this can respond to today's needs and rights for sign language students in a good way. The Advance Party is also pleased that the Education Directorate looks at different models of providing training in sign language for related pupils in primary and secondary schools, and we hope that even more good action will be taken in this area. The Progress Party believes that this is an important area that deserves more attention from politicians in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1373	A good sign language environment is important for maintaining good training and interpretation services for hearing impaired people. In the setting, the representative of the Left says that a main purpose of the proposal is, inter alia, to: has been focusing on the interpretative services and rights attached to them, so that society will facilitate this service at more events than at present. We agree that this is important for the participation of hearing impaired people in everyday life in line with others without this type of disability. However, as the proposer himself writes, this type of organisation is also – or so much – a matter for committees other than the church, education and research committee, for example. in the case of organisation for hearing impaired persons in construction, including taking into account sound, light and acoustics. The proposers also refer to the government parties Right and the Progress Party their proposals together with the Left and Christian People's Party in the previous magnificence period, when this committee considered the Announcement. Art. No. 18 for 2010–2011, Learning and Community, where measures were proposed to amend Statped. The majority of today’s parties then suggested that the state primary schools in the hearing area should not be closed down. This decision was not given a majority at the time, and today Statped has two schools — A.C. Møller in Trondheim and Skådalen school for deaf blind-born in Oslo. Signo school in Andebu and Briskeby secondary school in Lier is approved under the Private School Act. The Council of State, Røe Isaksen, in its reply to the Committee, has explained the follow-up to the decisions taken in the previous period, and we have been informed that there is a work being done, among others. with Trondheim municipality to ensure a good sign language environment in a time with descending pupils there. As a representative, I have not received any enquiries with concerns from users of sign language until a few days ago. I have therefore had no reason to doubt that the Minister of Knowledge has followed up the decisions previously adopted. Nevertheless, I have seen that the Deaf League wants a communication on the sign language position in Norway, and we will therefore support this proposal. If we are concerned about inclusion and not alienation, we still have a lot to pick up on trying to accommodate so well that the vast majority of students with hearing impairments can go to their own primary schools. At the same time, we see that it may be useful to gather a few more students with the same needs in the same school, but are sceptical about establishing a fixed focal point school, as SV suggests. We also record that there are built-up intercommunal schools with sign language skills, and in some places also own municipal schools. It may make sense to pool skills, but it is also important that all students who want to do so are given the opportunity to attend their own secondary school. Statped's task is to support well under the various local offers. So we're aware that in high school there are already a number of node schools, but we think this is a little bit different because many students would like to go a little further to go to college. Students who need sign language education also require that we have teachers with a good sign language background. As the Council of State refers to in its letter of reply, it appears to be a satisfactory search for a Bachelor's degree and an annual study in sign language. This is good, but there is no need to rest. It is important that unskilled teachers applying for training are given the opportunity to do so. We see that there has been a desire to do so, but that it has not been possible for the institutions to meet these desires properly yet. We had therefore appreciated whether the Council of State could properly explain developments on a later occasion. Work is ongoing on a review of the Training Act §2-6, on which the case rapporteur was involved, and it deals with a number of offers and purposes. Training is also considered for children with hearing-impaired parents, electives for those who want training to communicate with hearing-impaired friends, family, etc., and we look forward to obtaining the results of this work. The centre party would also like to see the final outcome of the decisions taken in connection with the reorganisation of Statped. This organisation is in its last year of transition, and it will be interesting to see whether the organisation has achieved the objective in a good way, or whether there are measures or changes that we need to make the offer better. It would be interesting here to hear what users think — what they are satisfied with, and what changes they may think they need to make. Finally, I would like to remind you that hearing impaired people include more than those who use sign language. I therefore believe it is important, when it comes to reporting back to Stortinget, that we are concerned with all hearing impaired people. It's also about universal organization, which I've been up to in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1401	Bente Thorsen says in his post that this is a topic that deserves more political attention. I fully agree with that, and that is also why we have promoted this Amendment 8. The language message addressed some years ago made it clear that sign language should be an official language of Norway. At the same time we now see after a few years that we haven't taken it completely into consideration. Drawing language is not just communication. Sign language is not just about expressing what you think. Sign language is also about culture and understanding. Reducing sign language to just communication is going to be completely wrong for us. We also have to look at sign language as a cultural bearer. I feel that many people today think that we are politically dealing with sign language too instrumental and too little as a whole about both communication, understanding and culture. That is why I am also disappointed that no more people want to support the proposals we have tabled, but we are taking what we are getting, so I am very happy that the Central Party signals that they will support the proposal for a big message. I expect that there are several people who have received enquiries about this topic in the last few days and who have therefore also received a different insight into it. Because it's not like most of us know this topic in depth and well. This is something we are far too rare, as the representative Bente Thorsen said. Several have mentioned the 16,500 using sign language today. Obviously, for some it's a necessity because sign language is the only thing they have. Some people use it as support. But as politicians, we also need to pay a little extra attention to the sign language professionals, because it is our responsibility to facilitate and ensure that we always have a recruitment of, among other things. Deaf interpreter. For a while ago, at least I experienced that in the sign language environment there was a lot of anxiety about the closure of the state schools. I felt that many were unsure about what happened, because they felt that they had lost a good and important offer. They felt that they no longer had that choice. They were afraid that quality would be reduced, and that they would not get the focus they received through state schools. I hope that the Council of State can address in its article what this process has been like, and what the quality is now, compared to the past. The left has been clear that we did not want such a closure. We have also hoped that the Council of State would follow up on what we agreed in the previous period. There may be reasons why someone has not done so, but I hope at least that he can address that issue. We believe, as said, that it is necessary – and would have been good if we had received – a message about the position of the sign language. It had given us the opportunity to discuss this on a broader basis. We also believe that it is important to look at the status of sign language. We understand that this is a topic that is not just about the minister of knowledge's responsibilities, but this is where this matter is, because it was sent to the church, education and research committee, and then of course we have dealt with it. I am addressing the proposals we have made in the committee, and I hope we can agree with some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1418	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1421	Norwegian Sign Language has the status of official language in Norway, and it obliges us on Stortinget. As with all other minority languages, specific measures by the Governing Body are required in order to maintain, develop and strengthen the language. We are also obliged to do that through the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We must recognise and promote the use of sign language. That is why it is good, I think, that the Left has put forward a proposal that puts the sign language on our agenda. In addition to the fact that the Governing Boards have such an attitude, it is particularly important that training in and in sign language is well maintained in kindergartens, schools, universities and colleges. The Norwegian education system is at all a very central player and an important arena for the preservation and development of the Norwegian sign language. It is important that sign language training is not perceived as or reduced to a special educational measure, but is defined as an individual right, where the child, the student, the student — with the help of their superiors — can choose the kind of language they want to have trained in and in. In addition, sign language training at school must be a State priority language policy instrument. The vast majority of hearing - impaired students attend their home school today. There they may be the only hearing-impaired student. We know that in such a situation, a person can feel isolated and lonely. Language challenges – the failure of other school students and adults to communicate in sign language – poses major challenges for us as a society to succeed with an inclusive school and a good learning environment for everyone. It must be an objective that all schools are more able to meet the educational needs of the hearing-impaired student and the possibility of being included in a bilingual learning environment. Therefore, SV believes that there are some things the government should do — firstly to strengthen the ability of municipalities to develop a bilingual training offer in schools where they have hearing-impaired students who want and need sign language. The schools that need to strengthen sign language competence need to receive state support in addition to being able to offer all pupils, parents and school staff a basic sign language course. Secondly, we need to ensure that hearing-impaired students are given the opportunity to participate in the course or part-time training in the direction of Statped, regardless of the municipality's economy. At such courses, in such training, they may participate in a professional and social community with other hearing-impaired and sign-language pupils. Today the municipalities must, among other things: cover travel expenses for pupils and parents if they are to participate in such courses and part-time offers. If the state takes this bill, we get a greater similarity in the offer to the students. Then we get an equivalent and real offer for everyone. Thirdly, we believe that the government should facilitate a nationwide provision of sign language training for primary school students. This can be done by setting up a separate technical language discipline in Statped and by setting up a network of nodes-base schools where Statped has a coordinating role for the network. Through focal points primary schools, we can also strengthen municipal primary school provision and ensure that we have engines for developing skills in this area. All the tribute to the Left for promoting the proposal for a representative. SV has announced in the vote that we support two of the three proposals that the Left has promoted, and we will vote in favour of them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1440	‘In a language policy perspective, we need to establish that sign language has a fundamental value in itself, inter alia, as an identity mark and genuine cultural expression for a linguistic minority in the Norwegian community. Norwegian Sign Language is also a genuine Norwegian language, part of the Norwegian Cultural Heritage and not least part of the linguistic diversity of the country in which we all have a special duty to preserve.’ What I now read was a quote from the website of the Language Council. As the majority of the Committee also notes, a number of measures have been followed up by the Ministry of Culture in the communication of languages. It is primarily through the Language Council that the measures are followed up in practice, and it will be a priority task for the Language Council in the future. In the field of education, Norwegian Sign Language has been systematically promoted since the mid-1990s, with the first regulation on the right and duty of training for hearing-impaired children, their own curricula, training in sign language for teachers and the launch of comprehensive training programmes for parents of hearing-impaired children. It has created new opportunities and positive developments. Today, we also see that municipalities, either alone or together, create local sign language environments, but these environments may be vulnerable. Statped, who was previously responsible for several schools for hearing impaired persons, now has only two schools left, with very few students. This requires new and clear efforts to contribute to better sustainability in the sign language environments. The State shall increase support and guidance for municipalities and county councils in the hearing area. It is a clear expectation of Statped by the Department, and I trust that Statped will do its utmost to meet the needs of local authorities for support and follow-up – it will be through guidance to larger environments of competence such as focal schools or professional support for a small nursery or school with one or few hearing-impaired children. Most hearing-impaired and deaf people go to local schools, and I am pleased that an overall committee is committed to ensuring the rights of sign language users in a good way. Then it's my job to make sure that Statped's nationwide tasks in the sign language field are designed so that they support this. As a knowledge minister, I cannot close my eyes to the fact that most of the state funds today go to full-time schooling for a very small number of students in two state schools, and that the majority of hearing-impaired children, in local kindergartens and schools, get a smaller part of the community's money. Our starting point must be the best of the children, and then we have to look at all the children. I also believe that we need to assume that the obligation to support and promote Norwegian sign language, including facilitating rich sign language environments, and to see whether belonging children can also learn Norwegian sign language in school, is important. In 2002, there were 140 students at the State Deaf Schools. In 2011, it was 69. Today there are more than 20 students, divided into two schools. One is A. C. Møller School, located in Trondheim, and most of the ten-twelve students at Statped School are based in Trondheim. The same situation exists at the State School of the deaf-blinded in Oslo, with eleven students living in the majority of Oslo. So today, the state's funds in the hearing area are mainly going to run schools for two of our largest municipalities. I believe that we are obliged to assess how the state's funds should be used professionally and most effectively, with the children's best in mind. That is why, as other representatives have also mentioned, we have a dialogue with Trondheim Municipality in spring 2016 about a possible offer under local authority. I also bring up dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo about the way forward. But I would like to stress that the decision as to whether it is the State or the municipalities that are going to have these schools is not taken – so it is not decided that they should be left to the municipalities. It was pointed out in my letter of 11 April that a plan for the State sign language offer alone was not sufficient when most hearing-impaired students go to local schools and it is a municipal and county responsibility to provide training. But I can assure you that Statped, the state support system, will in the future have a significant responsibility in the sign language field, both to support local levels, to create development and to facilitate sign language joint arenas. This is important to further develop. The Norwegian Dive Association estimates that there are 16,500 people using sign language today. It is important for me to consider what further should and can be done to promote Norwegian sign language. I have said that the department will review the Training Act § 2-6. The Office has already met with the Language Council on this matter. I have also said that we should assess the possibility of training in Norwegian sign language for hearing children, for example. children who have hearing-impaired parents. There is a lot of investigative work that needs to be done, both on the content side and on the organisation side, and for Statped it will mean other or more tasks – and with the need for more stringent priorities. Finally, I would just like to take the opportunity to thank the Left for the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1474	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1478	Thanks to the Council of State for the article. Evolution is fast. Today, most children are offered the option of operating in a so-called CI, which allows you to have both the ability to hear and the ability to speak. It means a whole new world and a whole new everyday life for a lot of children, but it also requires a good follow-up and organisation to make it work as well as possible. For example, the Landsförbund (Landsförbund) of the Hörselshalsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehörsbehör. gave us the impression that adaptations to the law are necessary for students who have operated in the CI. My question to the Council of State will then be: How will the Council of State facilitate this student group in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1487	That's a very good and interesting question. CI, i.e. cochlea implants, has been a medical revolution. This means that many people who previously could not hear anything, or in practice could not hear anything, today can hear partly and thus also have a completely different opportunity to develop language and communicate. So that's, I have to admit, some difficult issues related to these students' use of sign language, and what rights you should have to use sign language. I have had dialogue with the Norwegian Federation of Deaf on this, but I have not yet come to the conclusion that legislative changes are needed. I do not want to close the door for that either, but we have not yet seen any reason to propose legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1494	When the state schools were laid down, and there was unrest in the deaf environment, it was because they felt that they had a good offer, with good professional competence. They felt that they had an offer where the children could go and be with others who did not hear and who used sign language. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State can say anything about how he perceives that the offer is now, qualitatively. Is the environment just as happy with the offer they're getting now, as they were when they had the state schools? Are we able to hold on to the professional environments that were, so that competence is the same now as it was under the previous regime when we had more state schools? And what does that mean that we actually have two left, which are still state owned, and who possess that competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1501	This reform started under the previous government, and it is not to hide that the present opposition, the current cooperation parties, was skeptical to a part of it. Nevertheless, after I became the Council of State, I have seen that the big decisions were basically right – you may have had something right in the process criticism and the like – and the reason is quite simply that we are moving over where we want to make more provision for the many pupils who go to municipal schools, that we avoid them moving, and in that way we also have to assess the state schools. We are also very concerned about the processes we are about to enter with Trondheim Municipality and Oslo Municipality, that, first of all, we should ensure the further operation of a good offer for the students – that is a prerequisite, and it has also been for the other schools to be closed – and, furthermore, that we from political leadership in the department are kept up-to-date on the dialogue, which should be close, close and good, with the users, i.e. the parents and the students in the schools. And as I said, no decision has yet been made. I do not know that we have any reason to believe that there has been any significant deterioration in the environments of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1510	I also want to challenge the Council of State a little on a general basis, because sign language is about much more than what the Council of State is responsible for. However, the Council of State has all the responsibility for one of the most important things — the training and the activities of the schools for those who use sign language in their training, but also for recruiting professionals. What I could imagine challenging the Council of States is, in what area are we facing the greatest challenges? What do we have to do with first -- if we take as a starting point that we can always get better? We can do that very often. Although it doesn't necessarily mean that we're bad today, it's usually something we can get better at. I could imagine hearing where the Council of State thinks that efforts should be put in this area now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1517	I believe that the most important thing is that the conversion of Statped is successful. This is not just about having a successful organisational transformation, but actually reaching the ambition, namely that Statped should be given much greater support among school students, that municipalities, regardless of their size, can have students such as students. are deaf, will receive the necessary professional support from Statped. I have to say that there is nothing to suggest today that we are not going to get to it, but it is clear that it will carry very wrong place if we end up in a situation where we have stepped down the state direct school ownership, and at the same time not got to the spread out into the municipalities that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1522	I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will consider a few of the proposals that I mentioned in my article, for example. ensuring that all hearing-impaired students are given the opportunity to participate in training or part-time training regardless of the municipality's economy. Here, for example, it can be done. be significant travel expenses for some. We know that the local economy varies. Not least, this will be the case with the government's new scheme for local economy. We would like to challenge the Council of State to assess whether this is not a bill the State can take to ensure the equivalence of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1527	Normally I tend to be very tired of considering suggestions. I understand the very good intention of the representative, Lysbakken, that we should ensure equal treatment. At the same time, I think that another principle is also important, and it is that we want to make it very clear to the municipalities that they are responsible for these children. They are supported by the State through, for example: The Statped system, as well as through the municipal economy — for some heavy users, at least. But I think it is an important point here that the municipalities also have to be held responsible and that local politicians have to be held accountable. So even though I would normally say that in budgetary matters and things like that you can always think about things you mean, I don't know anything today that suggests that we shouldn't continue with today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1534	What says we shouldn't continue with today's arrangement is that we hear from them, that there is an inequality in who gets this offer, and not. That's got to worry the Council of State. Then, of course, you can choose principles or hope that the municipalities will gradually realize 100 pst. that they are responsible. But the most important thing is what kind of consequences it has for the everyday lives of these children and young people now. Let me then try another input, which we think is important, and it's about measures to enhance the sign language competence in schools where there are hearing-impaired students who want it. If you can create an environment where more, not least adults, and very much like other students, get an opportunity to express themselves in sign language, you will create a more inclusive school environment. But then you have to have support for it. Is there anything the Council of State will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1541	I am a little uncertain as to whether I can completely capture what the representative Lightbaking asks. We have today, for example. combined schools, focal schools, schools paying extra resources under the municipal regime for, inter alia, students who are required to have sign language training. That's very good. I heard the representative Lysbakken also mention an idea that you should have a kind of node school network. It could also be worth considering. An additional support scheme for schools in general to stimulate more sign language I have simply not assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1546	Then is my last question: Will the Council of State assess it – because there is exactly a state support for this we are out to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1552	I must admit that I have not thought very well through that question. That's a good intention: you can teach sign language students in schools where not only do students use sign language. To put it this way: schools already have the opportunity to offer, for example: sign language as a foreign language – or instead of foreign language. It's going to be wrong to call it a foreign language, because it's one of our approved languages in Norway. I will not close the door of the representative Lysbakken's proposal, but I will not promise any support for it either. I don't think I can go any further than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1561	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1579	The competence of teachers is often discussed in the debate on quality in school. My intention with this interpellation is therefore to give the Storting the opportunity to give its input and expectations to the Council of State before the Ministry of Knowledge concludes in terms of new teacher training. I also think it is important that we have the opportunity to air some thoughts before we deal with Report. St. 28 for 2015–2016, Facts – Depression – Understanding about how we view the future school. It is of course important that the teacher training of the future and the school of the future are linked. That is why I also hope that the Council of State appreciates what the Stortinget believes about the proposal for a framework plan for the new primary school teacher training. The centre party believes that basic training for general teachers should initially have been four years old. But let me underline: the Center Party also believes that teachers should have the opportunity to take masters. But we believe that the quality and the benefits would improve if they had first been practiced in the profession. It will certainly raise the question of the right and duty of continuing education, but it is a question I believe is essential in any case for teachers in the future, and a promise for teachers in the long term. Anyway, new teachers should get a mentor the first year after they get out of school. Assistance from an experienced teacher is often the most important measure to provide an inexperienced learner with security in everyday life and courage to meet the so-called practical joke. A person cannot pass on a subject well without good expertise. This is why it is important to provide students with good professional experience. But you can't impart expertise without a good knowledge and understanding of pedagogics and didactics. That's what's at the heart of the teacher's profession: learning to learn from themselves, motivate, activate, vary and inspire belongs to the subject. Phagdidactics is part of the subjects, but also part of the pedagogy that is about how children learn. This is close together. The center part will therefore have to have a greater place in the subjects. The field of education is the main source of research-based knowledge on school and learning. The other subjects cannot be detached from the pedagogy. It is this subject that provides knowledge of psychosocial conditions, and it is this subject that conveys that the need for safety, care and a good learning environment is crucial for learning. It is this subject that is the very core, upon which the other expertise is to be based in the pursuit of the profession. That's what defines teacher training as a professional training. It is therefore essential that the subject is not weakened in future teacher training. To change the name «pedagogics and pupil knowledge» to a new profession I think is nonsense. Such a change of name weakens the position of the subject, it is only wrong and has no intention. I owe it to you to note that I have been unpresisive in the interviewing text, because I know that learning is part of today's pedagogical subject. What I am concerned about is that the pedagogical subject is not weakened as a result of the fact that RLE is also proposed included in the 60 study points. If we do that, we're further weakening today's pedagogical science. Rather, RLE should be a compulsory part of teacher training as a key knowledge for the school in a multicultural future. I have recorded that 50 hearings say, on the contrary, no to the government's consultation proposal on RLE as part of the pedagogical subject, and only five think it's a good idea. I hope there's something the Council of State has noticed and might want to change. In the proposal for a framework plan, it is only in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English that students can take masters. I wonder, like several of the hearing bodies, that it is only these subjects that the government believes it is important to write master's thesis. A master will give the student the opportunity to deepen on a subject. In my opinion, it would be quite natural to open the door to immersion in several subjects if one believes that the future school should be able to make the students knowledge-rich, creative and innovative. In particular, it will be important to be able to write masters in relation to the field of education or special education. With the strong focus that has been on the teacher's role in the classroom as a leader, it would be quite strange if this were not possible. Many fresh teachers end after a short time because of what they perceive as a practical shock. It's not just coming to class, being enthusiastic with good and solid expertise in your back and believing that you should meet motivated and educational students and parents. In the elementary school, teachers meet all kinds of students, both motivated and unmotivated. The students' background and the kind of follow-up they get are also very different. That's why the pedagogics and didactics are so important. Therefore, it is also so important that masters can be written on the basis of related themes. The proposal opens up to expand the field of practice – I think it is about. 15 days more practice. I think this is too small, all the time it is unusually important to know the field of practice well and to be safe in the classroom, in meeting with students, parents and other institutions the school cooperates with. So to the practical-esthetic subjects. Both the Ludvigsen Committee's report The future school and the report The potential art focuses on the role of the practical-esthetic subjects in the future school. We need creative, creative and innovative students who also get to participate in entrepreneurship to meet future challenges. We're not going to train students who only have knowledge of repeating what we already know. We need students who have good basic knowledge but who have the ability to think critically and creatively to find new answers to future challenges. As the Ludvigsen Committee writes, it also requires competence in the creative disciplines. The creative subjects challenge other senses and skills than the so-called core subjects. However, in order for the practical and aesthetic subjects to have the effect we want, teachers must also have good competence in this subject. I believe that, in the long term, it is necessary to require teachers to teach these subjects at a higher level, but I also believe that it is important that all students receive a practical-esthetic course as part of their basic education, acquire knowledge from the very first stage, and then as compulsory. We have previously called for primary school teachers to have a practical-esthetic subject as part of their mandatory competence. This is also due to the development we have seen in recent years and our justified fears that we are in the process of developing too narrow primary school teacher education. We know that in 2014 had almost 70 pst. by teachers under the age of 30 who teach in this subject at primary school, not a single point of study in the subject. In 2005, the figure was 50 pst. After the introduction of the promise of knowledge, very few are choosing these subjects in primary school teacher training. It is no longer a compulsory subject in teacher training. About the same time last year we had an interpellation debate here in Stortinget where I expressed my concern about what we are doing with the practical-esthetic subjects ahead. I can't say that there are any measures in place to improve the situation. This will in the long term lead to a deterioration in education in the field of education, food and health and body training. Regular teaching in other subjects will also suffer from this when students are not trained in how to use the creative subjects to make teaching in other subjects more interesting and exciting. This does not mean that I am not concerned with the specific nature of the practical-esthetic subjects as my own subject. I therefore urge the Council of State to enter a practical-esthetic subject as compulsory in the new teacher training. Some study points should all be brought with them. If we do not make it mandatory, we are also at risk of losing the good environments of competence we have today at many teacher training institutions. I'm worried that the school's knowledge view has become too narrow. That is why I am also concerned that the new primary school teacher training should reinforce this. We're moving on a path where we're going towards a more skilled system, and that the subjects are seen more independently of each other. This will be contrary to what the Ludvigsen Committee has defined as a need in the future school. I believe that a fragmentation of subjects will be devastating for the Norwegian school and for the values that we have managed to develop, that have made the Norwegian community what it is today. I want creative teacher training, where all students are challenged to creative knowledge in the same way that they are challenged to more academic and cognitive knowledge. We have to challenge future teachers to use more senses than we do today. We don't get more creative just by betting in Norwegian, math and English. We need a strong pedagogical profession, and we need the practical-esthetic subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1619	First, I would like to thank the representative of the interpellation. I think it's very good that it's taken up, and that there's commitment around new master's education. I look forward to hearing the various posts as well. The representative asks if I want to strengthen the pedagogy and practical training in the new elementary school teacher education, and if there is a possibility of master degradation in the creative subjects. We will establish new framework plans for five-year primary school teachers as soon as possible. It is absolutely necessary for the sector and institutions to have sufficient time to prepare for an important change. One is directed towards steps 1 to 7 in school, the other is directed towards steps 5 to 10. The design of the new training courses means strengthening and raising the level of subjects, vocational education, pedagogics and practices. The framework plan gives you the full opportunity to choose depression in all the school’s educational disciplines, including practical-esthetic or creative subjects, if you like. The first subject of pedagogical education will extend throughout education. In fact, half of the subject of pedagogics and student knowledge is elevated to the master level in the model that the department sent out at the hearing. It's a strengthening in itself. I have been busy also making the place of education visible by preserving the name pedagogics and learning skills. That's a little bit of news, so what the representative called nonsense is changing. This compulsory subject that everyone is going through, that is, the PEL subject that it will still be called, will be a full year's study of education. In today's primary school teacher education, the bachelor's degree project of 15 credits has been added to this subject. In the new five-year primary school teacher education, the bachelor's degree project has been replaced by a R & D task, i.e. research and development, which is to be written in combination between a subject of education and pedagogics and student knowledge. The scope and organisation of the task shall be determined by the institutions. So it gives the institutions a room to also strengthen education in pedagogics. This is where teacher training has freedom. It is also worth mentioning that in the new master's programme you will also be able to take school-related subjects. In addition to the schools, additional immersion in pedagogics or special pedagogics or related subjects can then be chosen. Then it is important to stress that all the schools of education should include professional education, what the representative so well called for the subjects' own pedagogics. And it's important to be very clear that when we talk about immersion in the field of teacher training, it's based on the fact that teacher training is a professional education. In other words, you should not become an expert in Norwegian or Nordic, you should become an expert in teaching Norwegian children and young people. That means that professional education, alongside expertise, is a very central part of the subjects. It is then in addition to the pedagogics that are part of pedagogics and learning skills. In all subjects, the student is also required to learn how to adapt the training to the student's assumptions and needs. It has also been important that the master’s duties written in primary school teacher training are linked to the task of working as a teacher. In other words, the master's assignments have to be moved into school everyday and into the classroom, and this has meant that in the proposal we sent out, we had a barrier both to the purely professional tasks – which are not about the everyday life of teachers, but only about subjects – and to the purely pedagogical tasks. At the same time, it is important to stress that even if master's degree is to be based on a subject of education and vocational training, it will in very many cases be essential to be able to draw on professional pedagogics or special pedagogics. Take an example: you want to write, for example. on the mathematics of children – it is both a subject and a heavy part of special education. You can rewrite gender role patterns related to, for example: The social sciences, that could say something about the teacher's role in the classroom and something about the social sciences. There are really no limits here. Or there are limits, but there are great possibilities. It is also important to stress that in the arrangement we sent out to the hearing, students who choose master's degree in initial training for stages 1 to 7 will have a requirement. So they have to have pedagogics or special pedagogics in their master's programmes in combination with disciplines and disciplines, i.e. distinguish between 1–7 and 5–10. That being said, we also send out hearings for recording. We've noticed the recordings that come to the hearing, and we'll see if any of them should be taken more into account than in the model we've sent out. There are several relevant points there. Both framework plans allow students to choose a six-month study in pedagogy or school education as a so-called school-relevant subject, as I mentioned. A school-related subject differs from an ordinary subject in that it is relevant to working as a teacher at school, but that it is not a subject the students should teach. With this option, students will receive a pedagogical immersion. The representative also asks whether practical training is enhanced in the new teacher training. It shall be practical and interacting with the profession field and the number of days of practice has increased, from 100 to 110 days. In addition, 5 days of observation practice, i.e. an increase in practice of 15 days. Most of the practical study takes place at the school stages of education, but those who teach the youngest children should also have five days of practice in kindergarten to improve the understanding between kindergarten and school. The practical nature of the master’s task requires further cooperation with the school. So I would say that rather than discussing how long you're going to have, I think the most important thing in the future is to discuss the content of the practice, which unfortunately is too different for different municipalities and for different teacher students. So ask the representative if I want to give the institutions the opportunity to offer immersion in the creative subjects. Then I repeat that the framework plan opens up for students to choose depression in all compulsory education courses in the school. It also applies to music, art and crafts, which are important teaching subjects and in which teachers can choose to deepen themselves. This in itself will mean that you get a strengthening of the practical-esthetic subjects, simply because they now become master's degree and deeper education. It is also based on the situation today, all the reason to believe that more institutions will also provide a large, wide range of schools. So to imagine that you get institutions that only offer e.g. Norwegian, math and English, are unlikely. The vast majority of institutions will also be able to offer immersion in creative subjects. I am concerned that we should ensure that master's gradation is offered in all the school's teaching subjects as well, of course. Some subjects have a larger number of hours in primary school than others, and the need for competence is high in these subjects. This applies in particular to Norwegian, mathematics and English. I have therefore asked teacher training that the master's education in these subjects be given priority before the other subjects, but that does not mean that it is limited to that, and as I said, we are going to have a big offer. Then it is also to be expected that teacher training will work together to offer courses. Finally, I'd like to say two words about RLE. Of course, this is unnecessary to repeat in this room, which is fully aware of it, but of course it's not that RLE, which we're talking about in the PEL field, has something to do directly with the KRLE, or the old subject. What we're talking about is RLE-relevant competence, which is already present in the PEL subject today, but which we want to make more visible in a new module. It has two important reasons. Firstly, we know that classrooms almost everywhere in Norway today are becoming more varied, and that problems based on just ethics, life views, different beliefs and different cultures become more relevant. Then it's important that we put an extra pressure on it. Secondly, although the PEL subject is a major educational subject, the Stortinget has said in all crossroads that it is not such that the pedagogic environment ‘own’ the PEL subject alone. We want both the PEL and the other subjects to attract a wide range of professional environments. This also means that, for example: where RLE-related competence objectives are made visible, it may allow, for example: fruitful cooperation between educational environments and RLE environments at different universities and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1667	First, thank you to the Council of State for what I thought was a good answer. I also think it was nice to hear that the Council of State has chosen to retain what he called the PEL subject, which I call pedagogics and pupil knowledge. I think that's very, very good. The council also attaches great importance to strengthening didactics, and I think that is very good. And then we're going to get to what we're a little bit more disagreeable about. To it with the master tasks: I understand the intention of the government, and what the council also said was that there should in some way be no boundaries. There's kind of some boundaries, but at the same time there were no borders, said the Council of State. Then I think it's going to be my job to say here it's for the institutions to be creative. I think it might be good if they manage to be creative in this approach. I also think it is very good that special education should be an important part of especially 1-7. I think that's incredibly important. If we mean something with early effort, everyone needs to know about it. So to the practical-esthetic subjects, where the Council of State says that everyone should have the opportunity of immersion. It was not depression I wanted, I simply demanded something mandatory, a requirement for the students that they must enter a practical-esthetic profession. We have these offers today, and it has also been possible today to take these forming subjects or the practical-esthetic subjects as depression. The problem is that there are too few students who do it today, and what I'm afraid of then, is that good professional environments out in the different institutions can risk losing the expertise they have. I'm so afraid that we're now kind of going to throw out the baby with the bath water, I would almost say, and I hope some students will choose this. At the same time, we know that the municipalities are sitting outside and want newly qualified teachers who have the study credits they need in Norwegian, math and English, so everyone wants to choose that, I think. At least in the first few years it's going to be focused on it, and then I'm afraid that maybe some of these practical-esthetic subjects have suffered from it, and that the departments are gone when we realize that now we have to start betting on it. At least I'm asking the Council of State to keep up with the various departments around the new teacher training institutions now, so that we don't lose these good professional environments, because I think that would be very, very critical for Norwegian school if they do. At least if we think that we're going to have a school that makes the students creative, creative and innovative in the future, we need to keep those professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1680	I said "no borders," but corrected myself. My point was that it is quite obvious that there are issues. Although, as we have said, master's degree is to be anchored in one of the schools, it's quite obvious that there are a lot of problems there that will have to go on pedagogics or special pedagogics. This is one of the things that came up in the consultation rounds, and what we're going to see is whether we can bring forward that expectation more clearly to the institutions, too, so that it becomes clear to the institutions that even if we say that it should have a lashing in a school subject, you can write, for example. combination tasks. If you write a problem about first-stage dyscalculi for children, it's quite obvious that pedagogics also have to be involved. Another very important general point is that we also want a new master’s programme — and I believe that the Stortinget is also behind it — even closer cooperation between the different disciplines in the institutions. We want, for example: that, if you can call it what you often have and the educational environments, you have to cooperate even more closely. But then there is no doubt that there are some major environments either. For example, the disciplined environments are particularly important in the process of professional degradation. The educational environments are extra important, of course, in education and the learning skills and the depression disciplines of pedagogics and special pedagogics. When it comes to the practical-esthetic subjects, I'm not going to oblige the students to choose them. These are both principal and practical reasons, but an additional argument may be that I'm not sure if it would work either. Well, you'd get more teachers who had depression in practical-esthetic subjects, but I think the issue here is really about demand and not offers. I think it is much more important that Stortinget looks a little at the proposals we made in the Report. Art. No. 28, on the subject of trade renewal, partial follow-up to the Ludvigsen Committee, and must say that in the practical-esthetic subjects too, for new jobs, we should have conditions of immersion and competence, because one of the problems today is that there is simply no incentive, or encouragement, for the municipalities to search for teachers who have depression in the practical-esthetic subjects. In fact, having a diving requirement also in these subjects was one of the advices that «Art of the Possibility», this report that looked at both art and school, gave us. I think it'll be a more important contribution to strengthening the practical-esthetic disciplines in schools than going in and asking teachers to deepen themselves in certain types of subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1691	First, I would like to thank the interpellant, who is making sure that we have the opportunity to discuss these issues in Stortinget. Some time ago, I asked the Minister of Knowledge how he felt that teaching was improved by cutting down on the pedagogical subject while expanding his education. I also asked why the teachers would not be allowed to write a master's degree in pedagogical subjects. The council replied that he felt that pedagogics did not get weakened out of the new teacher training. It is possible that there is something I do not understand. Is it not suggested that the new five-year teacher training should include 60 educational credits, which in today’s four-year period ran, but that 15 of these credits are devoted to the theme of religion, life and ethics? Does that not mean that the result is that there will be a smaller proportion of compulsory education in the new five-year term? As I said, it's an opportunity for me to misunderstand, but that means in case school owners, school managers, teachers, teacher students and students have also misunderstood. They have been quite unambiguous in their criticism of the pedagogics of the new teacher training courses. Rather, it is tempting to suggest that it may be the minister of knowledge who has misunderstood. Being a good teacher is being a good educator. It goes without saying that teacher education is essential for the success of our future teachers in the classroom. It's about equipping them to become good leaders and inspirations for a complex student group with different learning prerequisites. It's like in a student group there are maybe four students who have read and write problems, three who experience being bullied, one who gets abused at home, six who have divorced parents, and two who have only one parent, one who has eating disorders, and maybe two who experience drug abuse in a close family. It imposes enormous demands on teachers' skills. Teachers do not have to solve all these problems, but they have to deal with them in a learning situation. Knowledge of algebra, photosynthesis and the four great ones is not enough to handle this. Knowledge of pedagogics and learning skills is needed for all teachers at all stages. Therefore, it also surprises me that it is suggested that the students should not be able to deepen their teaching skills in the master's degree project and for example. address key issues such as bullying, learning environment, school-home cooperation and general learning and behavioural difficulties. It's also a fun move to take 15 points of study from the pedagogical profession and apply it to religion, life vision and ethics. Then I agree with the government that some of the themes of religion, life's vision and ethics are important in view of the learning skills that teachers need. But it should also speak for an extension of the pedagogical subject and not a narrowing, as is now proposed. Newly educated teachers often say that they experience a practical shock when they start their teaching job – how do I dispose of my time, how do I help children who have challenges both at home and at school, what do I do with a student who has behavioral difficulties, and how do I hold a parent’s meeting? Norway's second-largest school owner and teacher employer, the Municipality of Oslo, arranges a 50-hour course each year for all newly-trained teachers, including: class management, school-home cooperation, adapted training, assessment, etc. is theme. They have stated that they arrange these courses, among other things. to mitigate the practice and to ensure that the newly trained teachers avoid the errors of beginners. So there are several examples showing that there is a need for better education in teacher training. The Labour Party therefore believes that the government is going wrong when it extends teacher training from four to five years and is not able to invest more in the teaching profession. The Labour Party also agrees with the inter-pellant that the practical-esthetic subjects need a job in school and in teacher training. It's about making sure that the school has a broad learning vision, in line with the Ludvigsen Committee. In the past, I have put an interpellation to the Minister of Knowledge in this Chamber on the follow-up to the possible art, the report of the Committee of Experts which the Red-Green Government put down. I still miss this report being followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1717	I just have some comments on the posts that have been made. In the right we are well pleased that the new five-year primary school teacher training is now being implemented. There has been an important part of the Teacher Lift together with a strong commitment to continuing training and clear skills requirements. We believe that the students have earned that, and we believe that the teaching class that is earned by the profession. There is no doubt in the Right that good knowledge of teachers is an important prerequisite for good school education and for the students to have the best learning opportunities. That is why I am pleased with the signal today that the subject and the specialist didactics have a strong place in the future framework plans for primary school teacher training. The clear rise in vocational education and a clear prioritisation will benefit many students. I myself was in one of the first coals at the University of Bergen that could choose professional education as an optional subject when I took my first major. It was a requested offer among the students and was felt as useful. Many years later, when I took responsibility for a textbook publisher, I quickly discovered that the specialist didactic was poorly represented in the literature, and that probably reflected the somewhat unclear role of the specialist didactic in some disciplines. It's gotten better every now and then. The representative of Tingelstad Wøien asked questions in the interpellation about the position and content of the subject of pedagogy in future teacher training. The subject of pedagogy has an academic-scientific variant at universities, and it has had a basic strong position in the more professional teacher education. I am also pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Knowledge about keeping the name ‘pedagogics and pupil knowledge’. There is a lot of professional identity attached to it, and I believe there is no doubt that future teachers and teachers need a safe pedagogical anchoring. A highly professional teacher needs to be equally secure on his educational background and identity, and therefore a strong teaching profession in teacher training is important. I believe that the combination of the mandatory study credits and options it is now being added to will provide future students with the professional anchoring they need both in the basic pedagogical subjects that are important also as a foundation for the subject matter of vocational education, and in the special educational subjects. When the new five-year teacher training is started, it is a major milestone that has been reached in one of the government's most important efforts. I look forward to that with great anticipation. Now the government is following up a targeted effort on knowledge and quality in school and in the education system, as we have seen through the Teachers' League, in continuing education, in the skills requirements, in the real-time vocational training, and not least in higher education with structural reform and the ongoing work on the quality notification, as well as the strong commitment we have had to the research front under government. That's good, not only for students and teachers and the Norwegian school, but also to ensure the future value creation in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1734	There are interesting questions raised in this interpellation. The practical training of teachers and pedagogics, the ability to learn away, is important. But at the same time, the Progress Party will highlight the importance of prioritising. And the most important thing for both students and teachers is to master the basics. Reading, writing and billing are the basis of all other subjects. We must realise that the need for competence is particularly great in these subjects. It is therefore only fair and just that the government and the council have asked the teacher training to prioritize master degradation in Norwegian, mathematics and English before the other subjects. We have to look at reality a little bit. Unfortunately, it is a fact that Norwegian students make it weak in PISA measurements. Norwegian students are roughly on the OECD average in science and mathematics, and scores lower in mathematics now than before. These results are not proportionate to the use of resources. As the Evening Post wrote on one of its cover pages for some time ago: ‘After ten years, 66 per cent more expensive school and 43 interventions, the PISA results are still medium-sized.’ If you don't master base, you can't move on. And how are we going to get the students to master the basics? Well, by prioritizing and introducing measures that we know will work. Teachers are the school's main resource, and the strengthening of teacher training with requirements for immersion in basic subjects and the introduction of master's degree are important measures for getting good teachers. This is a quality enhancement of teacher education supported by the Progress Party. We will also draw attention to the need for competence in religion and outlook. The school is both an education and learning arena. The purpose of the KRLE subject is inter alia: to give students the insight that Norway has both a Christian and a humanistic cultural heritage. It's important, because it's this very value base and this cultural heritage that makes us freedom of belief and life in Norway. At the same time, the subject should reflect that we live in a society that is more pluralistic than ever, and knowledge of the culture and religion of others is an essential part of the subject. We must be able to say that good knowledge of religions and views of life is more important than ever before. This places great demands on teachers in today's school. Teachers must be able to provide students with basic and good knowledge of different ways of life. They must also have the skills to do this in their teacher training. Good knowledge of each other's outlook on life and culture will also improve inclusion, cultural understanding and counter anti-semitic and other racist attitudes among students. This is why we support an increase in the emphasis on competence in religion and in life's vision in the new teacher training. I am a teacher myself and know well that a teacher must be able to both master and have the ability to learn away. This is well taken care of in the new teacher training. As some people put it, one would think that the pedagogical subject was almost removed, but of course it is not. All courses of education shall include vocational education. This is the subject's own pedagogics and is in addition to the pedagogics which are part of the subject of pedagogics and the teaching profession. What the child should be called is not the important thing here – it is the substance that is important. In all subjects, the student is also required to learn how to adapt to the needs and prerequisites of the students. Finally, the Progress Party will recall that the Framework Plan provides room for institutions to offer deepening in the creative disciplines as well. It is important that we ensure that national masters are offered in all the school’s educational disciplines, but not everyone can offer all the subjects. Here we are confident that the institutions themselves will find good solutions to the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1753	What skills do teachers need in the future school? What knowledge and experience do the teachers have in their luggage when they leave the teacher’s study and go out into the real world and into classrooms and do important work among children and young people? To answer that, we should first perhaps say something about what the school should be – about the content of the school and about the competence of the students in the future school. Then we have to look at the school's purpose paragraph and at the other part of the curriculum for which the Stortinget is now to lead through the treatment of the big business message that aims at renewing the knowledge promise. Then it might have made sense to land that process first and say something about the content of the future school, before we say something about the content and structure of the new teacher training. But the government has chosen a different order and process, and the proposal for new teacher training has already been consulted. The proposal sent at the hearing has met with some resistance, not least from the educational disciplines. The criticism, as many have already mentioned, is that the place of education in teacher training is weakened. Although the training is extended by one additional year, there is little more education in education than there is today, and there is little doubt that the relative position of the pedagogical subject in the study is being weakened. Professional immersion has become the government's mantra for the new teacher training. Teachers shall have more expertise, and they shall spend more time deepening in the subjects in which they will teach. There is research to show that there is a clear link between the skills of teachers and the learning outcomes of students. But that's not all that matters. And there is also a lot of research that shows that teachers' educational skills and competences, the ability to meet students as whole people, understand students' thinking patterns, meet them at the personal and emotional level, and manage to create a safe and good learning environment where students feel seen, understood and respected, are also vital for students to learn as much as possible. Then it's important to find a proper and good balance, and that's where many people now think it's going to fail a little bit. All students are different. All meetings to the first day of school with different starting points, and it is not only the professional level that is different, but in a society that becomes more multicultural and more multireligious than before, many students also have different cultural and religious affiliations. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that RLE should have been a compulsory subject for all teacher students. Knowledge of faith and view of life is essential to understanding the students you're going to work with, and to meet them with understanding and respect. However, although there is no political majority to reinstate RLE as a compulsory subject in teacher training, knowledge of religion, outlook and ethics has nevertheless been part of education as part of the subject of pedagogy and learning since this subject was established. The old pedagogical subject was expanded both in scope and in content and was to become a broader value and education than the old pedagogical subject. The proposal sent to the hearing states that the RLE component in the subject is clarified by the creation of a separate RLE module in the subject, and I think that is positive. When the representative, Mr. Thinning Bjørnø, says that you are now taking fifteen points of study from pedagogics and using them at RLE, he may in fact have misunderstood, which he also opened in his own post. I would recommend the representative of Thinning Bjørnø to look at what was the red-green government and then the state council of Solhjell's reason for the grip that was done with the subject of pedagogics and pupil knowledge. However, when we extend the teacher’s study with an additional year, there should also be room to increase the scope of the teaching profession somewhat, and it must be obvious that both pedagogics and the specialist didactics are also connected in the teaching subjects. I am glad that the Council of State was also very clear on that today, because a teacher is not a person who has only solid expertise, but a person who has access to the tools needed to learn the subject away from others. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that there is a political majority in the Storting to introduce a five-year teacher education, but I hardly think there are many, when they send their six-year-olds of farms to the first day of school, who are primarily concerned about whether the teacher has a master's degree in math or not. There are completely different things that matter, and I hope that the Council of State will listen to the recordings that have come from the educational disciplines, and that we will see more pedagogy in teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1772	The representative Norunn Benestad reminded us of something good, something positive and important, that is, that now learning becomes five years old. That's really what's the big thing here. It's unnatural to have another four-year education, once we've completed our other educations as Bachelor's and Master's degrees as three-year-olds or five-year-olds. It is good that we now receive a five-year teacher training. That's something left has wanted for a long time. I think it's good because having teachers with a master at school is good for the students. It's good for the learning outcomes of the students, but it's also good for the teaching profession, and I think it's an important part of strengthening the teacher's status that we're now doing the five-year-old and running the same race as for most of the other educations. I would like to say thank you to the interpellant, Tingelstad Wøien, for it is not every day that we have such a good hour interpellation as this. It is good for Stortinget, who has a very topical matter for debate, but it is also good for the Council of State, who hears what Stortinget thinks about what he has put out for consultation. Then the Council of State can choose whether he wants to take some of what he gets as signals today, with him in the further work. That's why it's very good that we get this debate right now. First of all, we have a unique opportunity now, because now we're going to make a four-year education a five-year education. Then it's not like it's always in school: what's going to go away? That's always the discussion when we discuss school policy. Everyone wants something to go away, but no one wants their things to go away. Now we have the exact opposite situation. Now we have an extra year that we can fill. There's a lot of commitment in this case. That's great. We get e-mails, and we get phones, we get invited to meetings, and we get involved in debates. The involvement of new teacher training in the sector, not least in educational institutions, is a major concern. It's very funny that we see this kind of commitment. In the left we have focused on two things: pedagogics and practice. As others have also said, we get a lot of feedback. Many are concerned about the state of pedagogics in the new education because it is perceived that there is a total impairment of pedagogics, but also the ability to take masters in special pedagogics and pedagogics. These are concerns that I think we need to take seriously, because there are heavy institutions that are behind these concerns. The intention is the best. The intention is that we don't get a school where we move the teacher further down the steps. We're going to have a school that can meet the students where they are, who can meet a first-grader at his level, who can meet a fifth-grader at his level, and then the pedagogy is essentially up in everything. We can't just think about science. We have to think about the combination that it is with science, pedagogics and – what I rarely use to say, because I find it quite difficult to express – didactics. This is related, and that is the concern we are hearing. I hope that the Council of State will take care of that, because I guess the Council of State will also hear it. I want to attach a few words to masters. Of course, even if you write a master's degree in math, in Norwegian or in English, you can very much relate pedagogy to it. It will be quite natural when you are going to learn that you also connect pedagogics to it. At the same time, we can take special pedagogues as an example. It's a function of its own. I understand that they are concerned about special pedagogy when it disappears into the proposal put on the table by the Council of State. You can probably take a master's in on top of the normal master, but is it reasonable that you should suddenly have a six-year education instead of being able to take it as part of your normal master? As far as practice is concerned, I think Anders Tyvand was concerned about something important, practical shock. There is something wrong with the education when you meet the principals and inspectors who say that they have received newly trained teachers who do not feel able to attend the class, who do not feel able to do the job they have been trained to do. One thing is the amount of practice, but how we work in practice is probably so important to discuss. I think the Council of State took that up in a good way. So we look forward to the final proposal from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1788	Let me also thank the representative Tingelstad Wøien for having taken up this interpellation. It is well-timed and well-founded, and we share the intentions behind it and the criticism that has emerged from several parties linked to the consultation round that has been, and what seems to be the direction in the planning of the new teacher training. Let me quickly add, as there is also a broad consensus here, that a five-year master-level teacher education is sensible, it is desirable, and it is an important step forward for teacher training. We've seen five-year-old master-level teacher training, and have been, requested by the profession itself. The integrated teacher training was at the time our government directed the sector, including the teacher training in which the candidate numbers for first-year students increased the most. So master-level teacher training is a popular study, and therefore there are so many expectations related to the work to be done now when establishing a master-level framework for the five-year primary school teacher training. That is exactly why I share the concern expressed by several others in connection with the highly critical reports that have come to the proposal that has been put to the hearing. It's not often we're told that the UH sector is tying up signature campaigns, but it's happened in this case. There is a great deal of concern in the sector about what the government is doing in the field of education and understanding the place of educational competence in school. SV shares the concerns raised by professionals at teacher training institutions, students and teacher organisations. I believe that what we see here is another example of this government having too narrow a view of what kind of knowledge the school should convey, and therefore also of what a teacher must be and what a teacher should be able to do. The school is about distributing a subject, but in order to disseminate a subject, there is a lot else you need to be able to do. You have to be able to do what's about creating security and well-being, the emotional competence, and then you have to be able to manage. Not least this spring, when the Storting and our committee have discussed the various new measures against bullying, it is important to remind us how crucial classroom management is in the work, as in all other work at school, to ensure that we have an inclusive school where there is room for everyone, and where all children learn. You don't just need subjects to teach, and therefore the one-sided attention to more subjects, and there's also just a few subjects, a dangerous direction to go, even if you want a school that gives better learning, and that's what our goal is. There are in particular two objections that have emerged, which we are concerned about. One relates to the design and scope of the pedagogical subject, that it must be given a place in the new master's course that reflects the importance of that type of competence, and the other is that it is not possible to take the subjects of pedagogical and special pedagogical subjects. We think it should be. I also share the Central Party's concern about the practical-esthetic subjects at school in general. It has to be – it shows the Ludvigsen Committee very clearly – a reason we put higher on our agenda, and we have to take political responsibility for repatriating respect for practical learning in Norwegian school. Finally, I would recommend the Council of State – and that is a general recommendation, because we see that there are many issues now: Listen more to the sector itself and to the professionals and make sure that it is not now that the content and quality of a professional training course is determined by a horse trade between the Right and the Christian People's Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1805	At first I want to thank you for what I think has been a very good debate; it is almost so I am tempted to have a little more interpellation debates, I think they are good. So I'll take some history. We're saying that we need to strengthen the pedagogical profession. There were 60 study points in the 1990s, and then it was reduced to 30 study points, and then it went back to 60 study points, so the pedagogical subject has been moving a little over the years. What's the question about RLE, as I see it, is that it's 10 pst. by the pedagogical subject today, and we're going to increase it by 5 pst., if I haven't completely misunderstood, and then it's talking about whether it's going to be a module or not, and it's about what the council said about it with the visualization of RLE as part of the pedagogical subject today. That's where we disagree a little bit. There I agree with what the Christian People's Party also said, that we might put it on the side and make it a compulsory subject. The Council of State was involved in the practical-esthetic subjects and this with demand and offers. There is no incentive to choose these subjects today, said the Council of State. Then we can set skills requirements, as we have done in Norwegian, math and English, but in addition to that, we have chosen to make Norwegian, math and English compulsory in teacher training. And why? After all, there is only a focus on the cognitive skills of the students, and if we as the authorities say that it is only the cognitive that is considered important, why should teachers or students believe in us when we say that creativity, creativity and innovation are important? What, then, is in the new teacher training that points to and highlights just this? That's why I have a concern and a prediction that we can risk getting teacher training smaller than it is today. If we have a teacher training that's narrower than today, which just focuses on the cognitive, or where the signal kind of goes that way, we also get a narrower school. That's why we have to see this in context. I also want to say that as a little heart attack eventually compared to those who are in the PISA and that we've measured ourselves for many, many years and found out that we're average and, like, haven't come any further than that: so we don't train our students to PISA, but we're educating them for the future of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1816	Thank you very much for a very good discussion. Let me just repeat again that it's absolutely right that it's very good timing to take up this interpolation now. Just a few things that have come up – there is no mandatory subject today. This means that if you want to take a dip in e.g. art and crafts with physical training, science and food and health – if you have four subjects – it is fully possible. It is not mandatory today to take mathematics, Norwegian and English – it will not be in master's education. Then it is also worth stressing to more people who have taken it up, including. Christian People's Party, that we have, as I said, a slightly different device of 1-7 and 5-10, among other things. because a crucial part of 1 to 7 training is to become a specialist in initial training, so to speak. An important step was to share the education, as the previous government did, but also that there is a slightly different approach, with a heavier ped. and spes.ped focus in 1-7. Then I'll warn you a little bit. Since we've put a lot of emphasis on professional understanding and on the teacher, and refurbishment and repatriation at school is an important project for this government, I understand the concern that comes with other parts of the school. But at the same time, I want to warn you that you think it's just a ped. and pedagogics – or pedagogics and student skills – which make you fit for school, and again emphasise that professional degradation in teacher training is not a mere formal degradation, but also, to the most extent, professional immersion, i.e. the subject's own pedagogics. And it's important, if it doesn't sound like, as the representative of the Christian People's Party said, that you kind of get a master in mathematics, and that it's crucial. No, that's when you have to train a lecturer. And then you have to take pedagogics on top. Then it is worth stressing again: the representative Lightbaking said that the school is about the subject, but also about more than a subject and more than a few subjects. I fully agree with that, and I believe that it is well taken care of. I would like to stress again that the pedagogical subject is not weakened. Yes, a module of 15 study credits with RLE-relevant competence is identified, largely extracted today, but it is related to the pedagogics and the student knowledge subject, and has nothing to do with this subject, i.e. the KRLE subject as such. In addition, there's a bachelor's problem that's today in there, and it's moving out. In summary, there have been disagreements and divided opinions about whether you should have a five-year master's education for teachers. It's coming now. So I'm concerned that there's going to be a reform that's going to last over time. That means it's also important to find the right balances in it. And when we're going to do a full job interview on the latest framework plans for this teacher training, I'm going to include the recordings both from the consultation round and from here, and at least listen to some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1831	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1845	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Gunnar Gundersen, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1854	In the absence of Frank Bakke-Jensen, I will try to explain the matter. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important topic. It is gratifying that there is full agreement that it is very important to maintain the basis for ecologically sustainable reprocessing. We all know the challenges that have been with the reindeer numbers of the Finnmark range. But after that consensus has been declared, SV lag separates, and I expect that, if the committee's delegation meeting is completed, they will make their own views known. The Committee agrees that there has been a time-consuming and conflict-filled process of developing rules of use for individual districts after their adoption by the 2007 Act on Reinforcement. The content of the proposition is a change in the Act of Purity so that, in exceptional cases, the County can enter and set an upper ceiling for the purity per siida fraction. At the same time, the proposition opens up that two or more sidings may agree on another scale distribution within the framework of the State. We are pleased to record that many districts have succeeded in bringing the reindeer down to the agreed ecologically sustainable level. At the same time, the majority agree with the government that it is now very important to be able to maintain this basis. We are committed to implementing measures to prevent a new undesirable increase in the purgatory and to allow the State to intervene if necessary. At the same time, there is the necessary opening even after such intervention so that the individual side shares can agree on a different scale. This respects the principle of self-determination in the Law on Repurchase Operations. Objections have been raised by Sametinget and the Norwegian Reinbrytssamers Landsförbund on both process and law enforcement. These are allegations of low participation and involvement. However, the majority record that there have been five consultations and a hearing in the context of the case, in addition to the proceedings of the Stortingen, which also involve consultation and meetings with the NRL. The majority believe that this is good within the framework of the consultation rules, UN human rights and the United Nations Convention on Native Peoples. In order to be able to govern according to the three internationally recognised sustainability concepts — ecological, economic and cultural sustainability — the majority of the opinion is that there is a need to have sanctions. The proposed amendment provides the administration with a good tool to intervene in specific cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1867	I have previously stated from this pulpit – and I will do it again – that I believe that the work that has been done over many years to limit the reindeer has been absolutely necessary. I'm not saying that because I have some sort of horn in the side of the Sami people or the reindeer as such – rather on the contrary. If we're going to be able to maintain the ecological and not least the cultural sustainability associated with this kind of Sami activity, that is, reindeer, then the development we saw just a short time ago was at all unsustainable. I find reason to stress it very clearly, because it challenges us in many ways how to tackle this. But I am somewhat surprised at the anti-conceptions of this type of legislation – I want to say that – especially from two points of view. If you really want to take care of the culture of Sami life and business, we definitely depend on being able to get tools that work. I also note that SV at this round chooses to propose to send the case back for new evaluations. I would like to express, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that what I think is a bold strategy, because we have no more time at our disposal on this issue. Firstly, in my opinion, we have not fully achieved our objectives. The second is that there is a risk that you can get adjustments and increase in the reindeer number again that will destroy a lot of the savings you already have. This is not just a cultural challenge, but it is, to the most extent, an ecological challenge, and that is why I am very impressed that SV has chosen to put itself on the line that they have done. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important to give the county office the opportunity to intervene not only from an ecological and cultural point of view but also from a justice perspective. There is little doubt that some of the downgrading of the reindeer has not only hit fair, and that there are some who actually use the chance to try to build up at the expense of those who are small. So I believe that this proposal is good, that it has been so badly hit – it is only in exceptional cases that this should be recovered – but that one of the reasons which may be a justification for ‘special reasons’, in my view and in the view of the Workers' Party, is to consider it on the basis of justice within the sidebar. That is why I think it is particularly constructive that we can now adopt such an approach, where not only do we look at the page as a whole, but we go in and see and evaluate the page shares in specific cases. This is why the Labour Party has chosen to fully support this proposal. I would also like to say that on the part of the Workers' Party, it would always be nice to be able to reach an agreement in terms of consultations and interaction with the Sami population, but at the same time I would say that it is not such that the consultation obligation implies agreement – then it would be an impossibility to practice. But that doesn't mean that there isn't, because it certainly does, both in the Storting and especially towards the government when you consult, methods and ways to do it that make us always want to have an improvement potential. In this case I have registered that there have been five consultations and a hearing, and in this way it seems to be far on the way enough. That is why the Labour Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1880	Purgatory is a cultural industry. It's not a particular industry. It is a nuclear industry for the indigenous peoples of Norway. That means that all the changes we make to the law that protect and set the framework for this industry need some extra rounds of politics. A consultation was initiated following the agreements between the Federation and the government. That consultation round ended before one came to an agreement, and he ended up in a hurry. The back carpet here is important to bring. Last year a forced slaughter was carried out due to an excessive increase in the number of reindeer. There's no one here that disagrees that one can't have a situation where there's too many pure pastures. It's bad for everyone. It's bad for the nutritionists themselves, it's bad for the ecology, and it's bad for the prices in the market, etc. The criticism of the coercion was that she was blind. A starting point was only last year, not based on historical numbers, etc. As a result, some small practitioners had to cut large portions of their flock, so that it reached a level that is not viable. In that connection, Jovsset Ante Sara raised a case in Inner Finnmark District Court. According to the judgment he won over the state. It was not possible to kill him in his flock. There's a substantial new information in this case, and all the time there's unexplained justice, it's essential that Stortinget remembers it. It's important that the government also notices it. So we don't know if that line of government has led, actually keeps going to the right. So far, the district court has been clear that the state didn't have the opportunity to do that. That means that the line that we're going to continue today and take a stand for, we don't know how we're going to deal with the justice system. When both the Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamer Landsförbund, which are the only ones who have been listening to this matter, are critical of these measures, it should also weigh heavily. They also believe that the measures that were implemented last year should be allowed to take effect before a step is taken to make changes to § 60 of the Law on Reinforcement, in order to give the County State the right to intervene. I'm actually asking myself that it's only SV that takes this position. We'll wait and see the development of justice. We take seriously Sametinget and the Landsförbunder of Norske Rein driftssamer and concern in this matter. When it comes to the problem, this is about the international obligations that Norway has. This is, as I said, not a normal diet. One should tempt to come to agreement. The government doesn't seem to have tried that. We have too much focus on the treatment of agriculture, where there is talk of how important it is to come to an agreement. I mean the status of the agreement that the state of Norway has with the Sameting, the obligations that lie within the entire consultation system, should also weigh heavily. There's not something we just have to cut through and determine just as we ourselves would wish. I take this into account the proposal we have in this matter, and thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1901	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1904	I'm just taking the word short to let you know what's in the box: the central party joins in what's in the majority position. The main reason why we can do this is that Section 60, fifth paragraph, has now included that the County can put a ceiling. The centre party has also underlined, in the form of a note, that it is important that a person be restrained from using this access in situations where it is likely that a person may come up with a voluntary solution. The centre party has also pointed out in the comments that one would wish, even though there has been a lot of consultation in the case, that one had gone an extra round to see if it was possible to reach an agreement on this matter, because I think it is important in the long run that consultations end up reaching a common agreement, that it is important to ensure the legitimacy of that administration a driver.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1911	Let me start by saying something for the first time: I think the representative Knut Storberget has kept a front line from post, where he actually draws the core of what is the real challenge we're facing, close to the reindeer in parts of the reindeer industry. For a long time, there has been work on changing the rules of use in the reindeer pastures, and there has been an upper reindeer for the individual siida. Where the number is too high, this has been reduced by reducing each side of a district by an equal percentage. In certain cases, it has also been necessary to take a decision on periodic penalty payments against those who have not complied with a reduction order. It's been a very demanding process, but it's essentially a goal, and the number of clean in Finnmark is down to what's set, even though we still have some challenges in some reindeer districts. It's now absolutely crucial to ensure the strength of the industry in the future that one doesn't get a new increase in the pure number. That's the answer to why this case, which could certainly be consulted one more round or two – but I'm relatively sure it would have given the same outcome – actually come to the Stortinget now. It is because there are serious reindeer operators who have done the job of getting the reindeer down to a reindeer level, which provides the basis for an ecologically viable reindeer industry, which provides the basis for an economically viable reindeer industry, and which provides the basis for a culturally viable reindeer industry. Without us taking it sufficiently seriously, and making sure that we have adequate legal secrets to deal with what is necessary, if someone is now starting to reposition, we could have a significant challenge within a short time. Therefore, it is important that the size does what they add up to in this setting, and make sure that we have the powers you need. One explains, both from our side and from the committee, that it is when there are particular reasons why the County should use this space. The best thing is when the silks themselves, when reindeer themselves, find good, appropriate solutions. But in the reindeer they also have to expect that if they keep this thing going over time, in an eternal dialogue and in-house work, while some are positioning themselves, the County Council has sanction authority. Without that, choose a party with those who have not failed to do the job in the last few years, and I feel that is what SV does. The consequences of this will be – over time – that if we do not have sufficient permissions, we will be able to see a new positioning. SV is usually occupied with organic farming power, but it is the one that is primarily threatened, because the practice of the reindeer is about the seventh and the last about the management of biological resources that are scarce for periods of time. When we lack such resources, we also have no basis for people to live without food. The fact that we do not have sufficient sanction authority can help to weaken the entire biological deficiency, the whole foundation of an ecologically viable reindeer industry, in parts of the country. It would be a pity for the potential we have to engage in an industry that has long and proud traditions. So I'm surprised that SV does it, based on a verdict that's anchored, and therefore not legitimate. It would have been alarming if it had been agreed, and we had seen the consequences of repositioning. Therefore, I am pleased that the Storting is conscious of its responsibility, that one has found common solutions, that one emphasizes that the five consultations and the one hearing, in addition to what the Storting itself has done, must be sufficient, and that we remain within international law when we now establish the new section 60. This will help us to have a sensible, ecologically viable reindeer feed across the country over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1926	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1929	A topic on this issue, and also now in the debate, has been the question of the quality of the consultations and the quality of the consultations, and it is most likely to count the number of consultation rounds. Since some of us ten years ago were allowed to really try consultations with the Sami people when we established the Finnmark property – we also consulted in the Stortinget, a very special arrangement in fact, in addition to consultation – it would be interesting to hear whether the Council of State considers it so that the consultations in this round were not only in number, but in quality and weight enough to achieve the best possible consensus. By that I mean the extent to which political leadership, the top of the department, participated in these consultations in order to try to create such consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1934	I have a good position in the Ministry of Agriculture, which has conducted these consultations on the basis of the mandates it has had from political leaders. I feel that if there was an option to come into a situation where we had not made any restrictions, it would be possible for me to go through new rounds and get an agreement with the Sameting and NRL. But I mean, the situation we've had in the reindeer business, it's necessary to have some privacy to deal with. I think that taking another round, which one can never exclude has a value in itself, would hardly have brought in the consultations something new that had brought us closer to unity, based on the fact that I think, as I'm glad that the Storting is also now agreeing, that it is entirely decisive with sufficient discretion that one in particular situations where the reindeer is unable to fix itself, can determine an upper reintal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1940	There have been criticisms from various actors about how the consultation system and the consultation institute, as we might call it, have developed over time. From Sametinget and from the reindeer companies, it turned out that there was a good dialogue here, but then they were cancelled early. Does the Minister think it has been a successful consultation round?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1945	The answer to that is yes, based on the fact that we get a law shelter that now ensures us the legislation we need to have control, so that we secure an ecologically viable reindeer industry for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1950	In what way has the consultation round affected the outcome of this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1955	Through the consultation rounds, both the Sametinget and the NRL have produced different views that the Ministry has assessed. We still have a proposal that gets broad support from the Storting today, and that is based on a desire to find solutions from the state side, but which still had to be a solution that provided an adequate basis for dealing with a possible build-up of new integers, so that those who have actually been willing to do the job will not be the losers by the reduction we have had in the last few years. I am pleased with the outcome of the treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1960	The reason why I ask these questions is that if a consultation round is to be a success, it must have affected the outcome of a case in one way or another. It must mean that one has come to a better solution than one did initially, one has come to a unity, and one has at least come a step on the way. What I'm really asking is whether the consultation round led to the meanings and recordings of Sametinget in any way being influenced by what we're dealing with today. Did it have any bearing on the outcome we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1967	Yes. My and the department's assessments are influenced by the consultation rounds we've actually been through. If it hadn't, we wouldn't have used five different consultations and a hearing to try to come to an agreement. If we weren't interested in the positions that Sametinget and NRL actually presented, we would never have gone all these rounds. It is a genuine and sincere wish from the state to actually carry out consultations that are still with a solution that all the parties thought is best. But I couldn't spend more time because more time would give new actors the opportunity to build up their reindeer at the expense of those who have built up and take responsibility for having an ecologically viable reindeer industry, and I'm very happy that such a large majority in the Stortinget joins in those assessments today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1974	Then, based on the answer, we can see that the consultation rounds you have had do not really affect the outcome of the matter we are dealing with today, and that the consultation system is only a façade for discussions between the government and the whole thing. When we also hear from the actors that had only taken a little bit more time, one just had to let it affect the calendar a little bit more, one could be able to come to an agreement in a complicated matter. So my last question to the government council is: was it simply because one didn't have enough time, that one didn't let this be affected, or had one actually decided ahead of what the outcome would be -- the same what?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1981	I am responding to this. We have conducted five consultations and had a hearing, and if the signal had been that by taking another meeting we had landed in goal, which made us have a common understanding of the Sameting and NRL, then of course I would have done so. But through the consultations that have been, there has not been a single such signal that by taking another meeting we end up in a situation where we got this possibility that this law secret now gives us, and that we think we're totally dependent on, and that the Storting is going to determine today that we're totally dependent on. The claim that this is a game for the gallery, and that the consultations are not real, I'm responding to it, because at least I'm not trying to deal with the responsibility we have to conduct real consultations with both the whole thing and the NRL.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1988	One last line to Torgeira Knag County, but then it has to be a new theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1991	No, I can do that in an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e1996	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2000	The maximum figures for siidae are fixed by the authorities. Reductions in reindeer numbers have mainly occurred through proportionate reduction. However, once the siida shares have completed a proportionate reduction, the maximum ratio does not apply to the individual siida share, but only to the siida combined. The Greens therefore support the fact that the State is now allowed to set an upper rate per page share where specific reasons exist, but with access for two or more page units to agree on a different scale distribution within the framework resulting from the decision of the State. Rejecting this change in law will, in our opinion, lead to a situation in which the reindeer can increase, thus threatening the basis for ecologically sustainable reindeer management, at least in certain areas. The consultation shows that the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund and Sametinget want a more comprehensive review of the reindeer management law. When the Environmental Party of the Greens took up the management of reindeer management and considered the problem, a revision of the reindeer management law was just one of the measures we advocated. We believe that for the sake of both ecology, animal welfare and a safer future for reindeer workers. We believe that an up-to-date law is needed that gives both the reindeer and the administration the power to regulate reindeer in line with what nature tolerates, even when one cannot achieve a common agreement in reindeer grazing districts. This is essential for reindustry to remain both a way of life and one of the important cultural carriers of the Sami people. Norway has committed itself, inter alia: to allow the Sami people as far as possible ‘to exercise control over their own economic, social and cultural development’. There can be no doubt that reindeer management is a crucial cultural and economic factor for a part of the Sami people, and an up-to-date law must therefore look at the possibility of transferring more power to reindeer management itself, if this can happen without conflict of interest with groups outside reindeer management and within ecological tolerance limits. The overgrazing problem has been addressed in recent years through the regulatory framework for proportionate reduction. This is a collective sanction in a reindeer grazing district, and the slaughter of reindeer is imposed which is not proportionate to the individual reindeer’s contribution to the problem. It has led to conflict, to legal proceedings and to despair. Some of those affected have not even contributed to the problem, while some of those who have increased their flocks before the reduction process have had more to take off. The Greens believe that the proposed Appendix to the Breeding Act will reduce the risk of future unfair sanctions in the form of proportionate reductions in order to reduce the number. We clearly need more tools against overcrowding than such sanctions, which strike everyone regardless of to what extent they have been loyal or not against the overall tolerance limits. These tools must be found in an open process that creates trust and respect for the law. The purification itself must of course be part of the process. In line with our obligations under international law, some measures should move towards the transfer of more power and responsibility to the reindeer industry itself, but the State has a basis and a duty to regulate in order to take care of culture and the environment. It is necessary to provide both management and reintroduction tools now. The proposal provided by SV is understandable in its intention, but one postpons to our terms this process, and we will therefore not support it. In addressing the industry’s challenges through the grant regulation, the Greens do not agree that they can be solved through the market mechanism in isolation. Therefore, instead, we call for more active sustainability measures in the reindustry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2019	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2022	I have to say it was a good post from the representative Rasmus Hansson – surprisingly thorough – not to the representative Hansson to be, but when it comes to the theme. I thought it was good to see MDG engaging both for the environmental – we know – and for the indigenous people of Norway. That's what makes this thing a little bit different than other types of things, this is that we need to have a little bit more thoughts in our head at the same time when we make a decision. We know that some actors are taking care of it, and one has to do something about it. But it's the collective effect of the slaughter that's been the main criticism from the reindeer's side, i.e. one can take on other types of numbers, historical data, when it comes to calculating how to reduce flocks. It hasn't been willing to do it, so it has one more in a relatively blind 50 pst. forced slaughter in individual reindeer areas. It has triggered these lawsuits, which I think have been very unfortunate. I just mean that the government is taking too easy on this complexity. There is a bit of a background that SV doesn't readily agree with these changes, when there's such a clear signal from Sámi that one here has progressed quickly, and where one has decided on the outcome of the processes in advance. We need to take the consulting institute more seriously. What I mean is the starting point for a larger discussion in this room: What is the status of the consultation arrangement with the Sameting? That consultation system is the basis for the establishment of the Sameting. It has changed, changing rating. There are now fewer and fewer possibilities for consultation in cases where the Sameting wishes to consult. It would be interesting to know why it would be difficult to implement a consultation arrangement. Had a worker worked a little faster, had a little less light on it, had a good use of time on this, one could have come up with a solution that could reduce the ecological damage this has caused, which could be a good solution together, and not least could have taken care of the important right of self-determination that we are obliged by international law to have. But I think it's sad that we're just running on and overrideing a recording from all those who are actors in this industry. It's not very often that we do it in Stortinget, at least not with a cultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2033	The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, has not spoken earlier in the debate and therefore has a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2036	I have to say, as true is, that I didn't intend to take the floor, but the Socialist Left Party's attitude and argument in this matter is enormously provocative in view of the challenges we see, which relate to both ecology, sustainability and culture, and which the Great Mountain was in a very good way. But it's a problem that no one, not SV Engang, has addressed – it was named by Rasmus Hansson – and it's about animal welfare. We've had this problem for a long time, and we've seen that it's been challenging animal welfare. Also on that basis, one had to start doing something about it and simply stopped introducing these people who chose not to take their responsibility. Premiering those who did not take responsibility, and harming those who took responsibility, one could no longer live with. What we're seeing now is that SV wants dialogue. After you try and see that you can't make it, you have to continue with a dialog that doesn't work. Despite all the challenges that have been mentioned, SV will now leave it scouring and walking. I am glad that such a large number of people, with the exception of SV, join that home and the law decision that was absolutely necessary to remove this problem that has been allowed to develop over too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2045	The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, says from the spokesperson in his second post today that ‘actors are at ease, and one must do something about it’. It is a proposal to be able to do something about what the Storting has to do today, and as SV then argues against it. That's what's paradoxical to me during the treatment of this case. And after the round of consultations, which Knag County repeats the criticism, the message from the state of the Samet and the NRL was that if this isn't one way we should solve the problem, how do they want us to solve it? Make an alternative suggestion. It never got the state. We have had several rounds of consultations, and Sametinget has dealt with the matter and concluded that there is no need for changes to the promise now, but still my SV that we had solved the problem of taking a new round of consultations. There are no suggestions when you are asked for alternative solutions, and the conclusion is that you do not need to change the laws. Then it's as simple for me as I mean that the basis for getting other solutions through new processes was actually not there, and so we went on and put forward the proposal for Stortinget. When now the Storting joins it with as wide a plural as a do, it lays the foundation for organic farming in the reindeer industry, still the basis for optimism, still the possibility to take out market potential on the reindeer meat, still the possibility for a reindeer industry, and I'm going to deliver a message about new opportunities at a later stage. It is decisive and will be the outcome of the Storting's decision here today. For this reason, I am pleased that SV acts alone, on the outside of this, and that the other parties show that they take seriously the ecological strength of the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2054	The hint of change of words that has been here may make it seem that those who now support the government's proposals do not see the need of the Sami people. I believe that there is a potential for improvement in terms of consultations, regardless of the colour of the government. There's something to go on, really, I want to say it. But at the same time, I think this is a bad thing to use as an example of this. So it's like that for those of us who are eager to strengthen the Sami reindeer, we see that it's a great potential, both for how much meat you get out, and for processing and getting the food out to people, just like that. But I would like to stress that I agree with the representative of Knag Fylkesnes when he says that the representative Rasmus Hansson from the Green Party made a glittering contribution, and that he could do it himself. The problem for SV must be that they have a completely different conclusion to the Green Party on how to tackle this. I think it's strange the argument that's now coming, that the proportionate slaughter has involved great injustice for someone, because you're not now grasping the possibility of getting tools that can actually repair unfair results. I think that's weird. I think it's also strange that parties that traditionally argue very strongly for both sustainability and ecology, actually don't believe that the occasion to do that is now. And finally, I think it's weird when you're in a situation with strong emotions. There have been recordings by the Sami people searing and from the reindeer that in this rather tough process that has been over many years, with loud discussion, there are some who have done as the state has asked, and that in future positioning and adjustment actually suffer and have to take the burden of other careers to their advantage. I see the bill there that you now have an opportunity to intervene in such situations. That is why I think it is particularly important in the interests of fairness, which is at least central to my party, and also in the field of business, to ensure that this type of business regulation is actually implemented fairly. That is why we believe that the time has come for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2061	Mr Knag Fylkesnes has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2064	I thought there was a slightly distorted post that came from the representative Storberget, which represents a party that supported and still does not vote for SV's proposals in environmental policy. This is a matter that we simply land differently from the other parties on the Stortinget, because we see that here there is a lot of consideration to consider. And that is the respect for the indigenous peoples of Norway we are calling for, and we see a lack in this matter. That's our starting point. Already when this started, when the ecological disaster appeared, we were in SV on the track that something had to be done. But one has to make sure that this is not any industry, here one has to go. And then the ultimate decision about slaughter comes, with the assumption that it's going to be made flat, and one doesn't start with, for example. historical conditions. That is what we are responding to, and that is what I believe the representative of Storberget is not doing well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2071	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2087	The development plan 2014–2016 for the Hospital Telemark health care establishment and the decision of the Board of Directors of the Hospital Telemark to terminate emergency and daily functions at Rjukan and Kragerø hospital were confirmed in the Executive Meeting in Health South-East on 5 June 2014. The development plan established a reconversion of the treatment provision in the Hospital Telemark, where one was to concentrate the resource use of ‘two daily hospitals with acute function, diurnal treatment and surgery’. Further: ‘This will provide enhanced sustainability and basis for meeting ever-increasing demands on the quality of treatment, patient safety, competence in the first meeting with the patient and robust preparedness. Concentration in fewer units will also enhance professional robustness, recruiting power and reduce the need for temporary hire.» The recommended future functional distribution of somatic treatment was outlined in the plan as follows: The emergency room shall be a local hospital ‘with internal medical and surgical emergency function for Notodden, Sauherad, Hjartdal, Bø, Witteseid, Seljord, Tinn, Tokke and Vinje’. The plan says that the hospital should increase the bed capacity to 48 beds. In Rjukan, there shall be a local hospital ‘with a wide outpatient daily supply for both surgery, orthopaedics and medical treatment areas including radiology and labs. Dialysis and cancer treatment. Cooperation with private contract specialists and municipal/external health professionals». Kragerø should be a local hospital “with a wide outpatient daily offer for both surgery, gynecology and medical treatment areas including radiology and lab. Dialysis and cancer treatment. Cooperation with private contract specialists and municipal/external health professionals». The ski shall be ‘Central Hospital’ with a versatile acute and trauma function for the whole of Telemark. Local hospital for Skien, Porsgrund, Kragerø, Drangedal, Siljan, Bamble and Nome. [[...]] Wide range of surgical and medical treatment services. Strengthening medical competence in emergency reception with qualified medical and emergency doctors with special emergency medical competence’. If Skien continues: ‘Construction of new cots linked to gangways west of current building mass. To be planned and built between 2015 and 2017. Two years of construction time shall be calculated in addition to planning and application processes.’;» And... ‘The conversion of Nordflöjen in Skien will be carried out to meet the need for outpatient clinics and other day care for the patient’s treatment currently taking place in Porsground.’ The development plan further states that for Kragerø and Rjukan there is an ambition ‘to decentralise as many treatment services as possible. It is therefore planned” — according to the development plan — ‘to continue a wide range of day-time hospital services; dialysis, cell toxicity treatment and specialist outpatient clinics, X-rays and laboratory services. It will be assessed on an ongoing basis on the basis of patient needs and technical possibilities for the establishment of further decentralised services.’» For Rjukan, it is clarified in the development plan for outpatient services that, in the case of orthopaedics and outpatients, the scope and range of services must be further explored in cooperation with the community's medical services. Pulmonary outpatient clinics shall continue as at present; the same shall be the outpatient heart and the outpatient diabetes. Gastro outpatient clinics shall be planned and operated in cooperation with Notodden/Skien. The development plan also states that there should be ear, nose and neck outpatient clinics and eye outpatient clinics, and it should be considered whether to re-establish a gynecological/natal outpatient clinic. Medical support services shall be continued as necessary. The development plan thus stated that there should be local hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø – I will note that the use of words is taken from the development plan – without emergency and daily supply, but with daily treatment and a large outpatient supply. This interpellation is not a refuting of the decision to close the daily and emergency services in Rjukan and Kragerø. This interpellation is necessary because we are concerned about whether the development plan is being followed, and because we should learn from the failures that were made in the conversion process. The development plan stressed that there should be clean and orderly processes in connection with the transition to take place. In the big debate on 17 June 2014, the Minister for Health himself stated: ‘I also hope that this decision will start a renewed and strengthened cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn.’ Things indicate that this has not happened, and copies have been many. When the Hospital Telemark HF announced on 1 October 2014 a lease for vacant hospital facilities in Kragerø and at Rjukan on Doffin, the municipalities were not informed. They got to know this through the newspapers. In May 2015, the municipality of Tinn sent a letter of concern to the health agency that the closure of the hospital business went beyond standby, and that there was a lack of information about important changes in hospital functions. Finally, the county doctor came on the track and created a custody case. He found deviations from law or regulation. The health service had not carried out ‘adequate risk and vulnerability assessments prior to the migration of hospital operations in Rjukan as a result of the 2014–2016 Development Plan and has not followed up assessments of the need for risk mitigation measures during the transition’. In May 2015, County Council received a statement of concern from the Association of Young Doctors that spelled out the activities of the Surgical Clinic and Medical Clinic in Skien. In that light, the County Medical Officer has opened proceedings for supervision and findings were made on the basis of which three non-conformities were identified: ‘1. The hospital Telemark HF has for a long time had, and still has, a periodically irresponsiblely high patient covering in relation to the crew at several bed posts in Medical Clinic and Surgery Clinic in Skien. The entity does not ensure safe manning at bedside beds in these clinics during periods of over-coating and/or heavy workload. Gastro-medical and gastro-surgical bedposts are particularly stressed. It should be noted, in particular, that the health undertaking does not have arrangements to ensure that doctors, nurses and other health professionals in somatic departments receive adequate/necessary assistance in the event of high labour pressure in afternoon, evening, night and weekend shifts. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Hospital Telemark HF does not ensure the proper follow-up of patients placed in bed posts other than where they should be based on the picture of the disease for reasons of capacity [[‘satelite patients’]] The monitoring report is currently under way and will soon be in its final version. However, this surveillance report and the other reports of concern coming from municipalities and from trustees, as well as the currently reported concerns, both in the Skies and on the Notodden, raise questions about the development plan and the premise that one made these changes in order to ensure the quality of the patient supply. There is reason to ask questions about whether the willingness to decentralise the specialist healthcare provision of Rjukan and Kragerø is being followed up, and whether the decision that one running should assess whether more services can be decentralised to Rjukan and Kragerø. There is reason to ask critical questions about whether the provision on the Notodden and the Ski is defenceworthy and whether enough has been done to secure the capacity in the supply. Is the bed built in Skien on the way? Are there enough beds in the Notodden? How can a person defend the amount of coating that is? Is there any concern that there have been reports of trustees, and that the county doctor has delivered his report, which then links capacity problems and death-related coatings? Was the prehospital supply built up before the conversion, which was a premise when one adopted the development plan? How will cooperation between municipalities and enterprises be ensured in the future? There has been a recent debate on the provision of specialist health services in Rjukan and Kragerø to be defined as hospital or not. It's interesting to see if the sales of these hospitals on the open market were legal or not. I notice that the wording of the plan is different from what the council says now, but is one on Rjukan, one at least sees that the hospital sign is on the ground, and the hospital sign is still hanging over the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2161	Health South-East states that through 2015 and so far in 2016, the Hospital Telemark has improved the results in a number of areas that are important for patients. The waiting time for somatic patients has decreased, the proportion of patients experiencing temporary interruptions has decreased, and the proportion of Corridor Asian patients has decreased. At the same time, the economic situation was kept under control in 2015. Until 2016, the economic situation has been somewhat more challenging, and the waiting time for plastic surgery, where the Hospital Telemark has an extended responsibility in Health South-East, is still high. The hospital Telemark informs that they have followed up the development plan 2014–2016. They state that in the former Rjukan hospital today there is an outpatient and day-care offer for the patient groups listed in the development plan of the Hospital Telemark. The Hospital Telemark informs that the medical outpatient clinics and the surgical outpatient clinics, including orthopaedic and ear-nose neck with audiography, provide services in line with the plan. A dialysis facility has been established that, according to the opinion of the Hospital Telemark, works well. At the same time, the hospital Telemark informs us that fewer cellular poison treatments have been carried out than planned. According to the hospital, this is due to the fact that cancer cures have become more complicated than local competence has been able to handle. Gynaecology services have not been established due to recruitment problems. In the case of internal medicine, this service is currently provided by staff from the Notodden due to illness. The Hospital Telemark states that the overall activity is as expected from the number of inhabitants covered by the activity of Rjukan. Emergency and daily services to the population are provided mainly at the Notodden Hospital and in Skien if necessary. Ambulance capacity has been expanded in line with the development plan. In tin, capacity has been expanded from one to two daily ambulances. The same applies to Vinje, which has also received two daily ambulances. The Hospital Telemark believes that the conversions that have taken place as a result of the development plan are sound. Nevertheless, there must be no doubt that the Hospital Telemark takes the oversight case very seriously and will use the report for both learning and improvement. The hospital acknowledges that they have had challenges with overcoating in some items, especially where the main emphasis of patients is placed as immediate help patients. In parallel with the supervision of the County of Telemark, the Labour Inspectorate carried out supervision of gastro-surgical sections. They consider giving the hospital two orders, according to a preliminary report. These requirements concern manning, workload, training and follow-up, risk assessment and satellite patient-related measures. The hospital has increased the number of beds and crews at the most heavily charged beds during the last year. Implemented and planned measures at the hospital are expected to close the notified deviations and instructions of the County and Labour Inspectorate. As can also be seen from the National Health and Hospital Plan, the specialist health service will be subject to a great deal of pressure in the future. It is therefore important to look at how to improve the use of capacity in hospitals and how to improve cooperation with municipalities. In the case of further decentralisation of offers to Rjukan, the Hospital Telemark informed that in the spring of 2016 they have established outpatient clinics for occupational rehabilitation at Rjukan. They state that the establishment of other outpatient services will be assessed on an ongoing basis, in line with the needs of the population. The Hospital Telemark is now updating the development plan by 2030. It is important to clarify that the old development plan does not contain any phase for which specialist health service provision is appropriate to provide on Rjukan for all future purposes. However, I have noticed that the administration of the Hospital Telemark assumes that there will be a day- and outpatient offer at Rjukan throughout the planning period. The Telemark Hospital is responsible for providing specialist health services to the population of the whole of Telemark – that is, around 170,000 people. In total, the hospital has about 4,000 employees. In this case, the attention of the size is concentrated around a very limited part of this offer, which it was appropriate to collect elsewhere in the enterprise. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, the responsibility of health businesses is to make the best use of the funding – for the benefit of the population. I assume that the Hospital Telemark carries out the transformations in the healthcare company in such a way that the entire population of Telemark still receives a good and proper offer, and in a way that does not impose unreasonable burdens on employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2189	First, I would like to request a comment from the Council of State on something I mentioned in my post, which was not commented on. It is due to the development of a new bed building in Skien, which was explicitly not stated in the development plan to be built out, precisely in order to have the capacity to do so as the closure of emergency and daily functions in Kragerø and Skien would result. The same applies to what is stated in the development plan to increase the capacity of the Notodden hospital. I also have a question about the gynecology supply, because I record that the council says he has recruitment difficulties. I have been made aware that there is a gynecologist who wants to establish himself on Rjukan, but that there is no interest in it from the enterprise. At least that's the information I've been given, and I think that's serious. Governments describe a development that should be very good. But then there is a paradox that one has a report from both the county doctor and the Labour Inspectorate, that the doctors have sent a message of concern, that the nurses have sent a message of concern, and that the conversion process itself has also been supervised, which showed that the conversion itself was not done in a good enough way either. The occupancy rate at Skien and Notodden is very worrying. It was said in the debate, at least from the Hospital Telemark’s side, that this was also known before the adoption of the development plan. But when I read the development plan, it says that the problem and one reason for the decision was that there was too much capacity, one had to scale down the supply, one spent too much money. I would like to have a comment on this from the Council of State: Did the government know that hospitals had problems with a high occupancy rate when an approved decision in the Business Meeting on the Development Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2200	As I said in my post, the Hospital Telemark has also worked to improve the capacity of the hospitals in Skien and Notodden. They work continuously to follow up the development plan. The hospital Telemark has had major challenges for a long time. One of the reasons for this is that the Hospital Telemark has had a very costly structure to deal with, while they also needed to spend a lot of their human resources on it. Now the Hospital Telemark, which I also informed in my answer, is within a different development. This is precisely what is also necessary to provide a prospective hospital offer to all Telemark residents. Much of that was also the basis for the development plan. I have also explained the offers that are established at Rjukan as a follow-up to the plan. Then I have to ask for an understanding that as Minister of Health and Care I do not go in and assess whether or not the individual gynecologist who may have reported his interest in a hospital has been cared for. There is a board at the Hospital Telemark that is responsible for the operation at the hospital and for following up the development plan. Then there is a government in Health South-East that has a total responsibility for the whole region, which is also following up on this. I perceive that in general we see that the development plan has been followed up by the Hospital Telemark. In the areas they have not done so, I have explained the challenges they face. With regard to the development of the specialist healthcare system, the challenges facing you are well explained in your national health and hospital plan. That means there is no hospital, neither large nor small, where the contents of the hospitals are high in stone. If a patient had that approach to hospitals, it would have one consequence — that the offer to patients had become worse over time. There must also be developments in hospital content if patients are to receive a better offer. The drug is developing, and it also leads to the need to organise offers differently. One example of that is what I suggested about cell toxin treatment. When it becomes more complicated, it must also be done in fewer places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2217	The development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF was economically motivated. En-route change in status to target quality. That's good. In order to improve the quality of hospital services for the population in Telemark, it became necessary to phase out important functions at the local hospitals in Kragerø and Rjukan. I have listened with interest to the presentation by the Council of State, but do I nevertheless find reason to ask the following simple questions: Is it such that the necessary structural intervention has now been taken so that we can achieve the qualitative objectives as suggested in the development plan? Or is it such that further centralisation will be necessary, for example: by discharging important functions also at the hospital in Notodden?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2224	I have attended this discussion that has been going on, and this is not the first round we have of Rjukan hospitals and patients. I think it's important to make sure that the development plan of the Hospital Telemark is actually followed up, because there's structural grip that makes many concerned about what's going on. However, I would like to say that the supervisory report received at the Hospital Telemark is a preliminary supervisory report. It's important to bring it with you. In terms of some of the things that lie there, you have to see what comes in the final report. There is no doubt that it is important to have supervisory bodies that take care of patients, and find out if something is not doing well, and do something about it. I would like to say that the hospital has taken this very seriously and has taken many steps to get to grips with what has come up with the supervisory report. However, I would like to point out that this is not a supervisory report that has come in the light of what has happened to the structural changes and the closure of Kragerø and Rjukan. This is a matter that has been going on for a long time. There have been challenges in some bedposts, but there are other bedposts that do not necessarily have the same challenges. It is also important to include, that you are very aware of it, and that you do something at the Hospital Telemark to fix this. So it's a little special -- I think that as far as it's okay what the Council of State says -- when individual representatives go to the pulpit here and say that someone said they might be interested in a position in a hospital. I think it's hard for the Council of States to confirm or cancel or deal with it. He has to deal with what comes from the different hospitals. But it is important, and I want to stress that it is important, that the management of the Hospital Telemark, which is responsible for ensuring that all residents of Telemark have a good and qualitative offer, follow up the development plan that is there. I also know that it is important to follow up the Notodden Hospital that is now there, and I know that the Council of State is also following up. It is part of the national health and hospital plan that the hospital at the Notodden should have good activity and activities that they now have and that are part of the hospital plan. I think it is good to have discussions about this, but I think maybe the representative Toppe chooses to be out a little early when she takes part of the discussion that has gone on, especially around the oversight case. But I also know that the Council of State follows closely and is committed to ensuring that all patients receive good patient treatment – throughout the country and in all the municipalities of Telemark. I think the Council of State has explained well and well in the hall today around the interpellant. Then I think it's good to have a discussion about this matter, as the interpellant has wanted, but I also think, as I said, that you have received a good answer. And then you have to continue to follow closely – at least as a representative from the county – that the development plans are being followed up and that patients are being cared for in a good way. If not, like other politicians, I must follow closely and tell you if we experience that patients no longer get the offer you are entitled to and that you get in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2239	The centre party is very concerned that a wide outpatient offer in Rjukan and Kragerø, a daily offer in line with what the development plan provided, ensures a real political will and a real will in the health institution to decentralise further supply if one can. My example of gynecology is that I get other feedback, and it's also part of the concern I have for the whole process and that there's a real willingness to follow up the measure of decentralised services in the development plan. I note that the representative Hoksrud thinks I am too early and should have waited until the inspection report was completed. This is not an interaction that only affects the supervisory report. It's been two years since a decision was taken. A lot has happened in the conversion process, and there has been a lot now that gives cause for concern, and that should make Stortingen more honest and see if there is anything here that we should have taken responsibility for. I am sure that the hospital will do what they can now, but there is, after all, a decision in a business meeting that underpins the current changes. I mean, the council doesn't answer my questions. I've asked you in concrete terms, what's going on in the ski? Is the new bed built before 2017, as stated in the development plan? Has Notodden had an extra bedside cavities, something that was at stake? Did the Council of State know about the high cover, which has also been addressed in this debate? I find it incomprehensible that one could stand and say that the high coating had nothing to do with this conversion process, because one says that one has held back information that there was a major capacity problem in the main hospitals in the healthcare establishment. That one has retained that information in the development plan, I thought it was serious. Finally, I have also not received feedback from the Council of State on whether he thought the conversion process itself was good, or whether he, like me, thinks this is a conversion process that we should not be proud of, and that we should prevent in other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2254	This interpellation concerns the development of the Rjukan offer, which is in line with the development plan, and I have responded to that. I have also responded to the challenges in those areas where development has not been in line with this, but I have also shown that there has been further decentralisation, for which there were also indications in the development plan. I understand that the Hospital Telemark is working on following up the development plan, but they are also looking at the possibility of developing the Hospital Telemark in the future. On the issue of the Notodden Hospital: in the work currently done with the 2030 development plan, there is no discussion that there should be a hospital in the Notodden. It is part of the plan that is also available for a discussion on the development plan by 2030. In addition, I perceive that the Hospital Telemark also feels very positive about establishing the radiation unit for that part of the country, which has been an important matter and a positive news for the county and for the hospital. I am not saying that all the changes that have occurred in this case have been made perfectly. There are major challenges, and there are certainly things that could have been done differently. There's always something to learn. There are challenges to this hospital as in other hospitals. But like saying that anything that's negative is because of this one relationship, it's not evidence for. The basis for my agreement that a reduction in the emergency hospital offer at Rjukan and Kragerø was just to help one in the Hospital Telemark get a development that is best for the quality and for the patients throughout Telemark, and that the option, overall over time, had given a lower offer to the residents of Telemark. Then it is important that the hospital works well with the follow-up to the development plan and with the decentralisation of the offers that can be decentralised. It is also in line with Stortinget’s National Health and Hospital Plan leadership, which hospitals are now tasked with following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2267	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2284	There is broad consensus that the health industry is one of the new industries with the potential to ensure future employment, value creation and the ability to strengthen competitive business. The NHO has recently published the report ‘Verdiskaping in the health sector’. It's the first time we've had such an overall value creation analysis of the health industry in Norway. The report is based on the most central private and public actors in the value chain. In 2014, the health industry accounted for 48 billion turnover. kr, and a growth of 11 pst is expected. in 2015. Health is clearly the most research intensive industry in Norway. It was invested 9 billion. SEK in R & D in 2013, more than a total of maritime, food and marine industries. University hospitals account for the largest share, and business only accounts for 1.5 billion. kr, according to figures from the Research Barometer. The report has made estimates based on the TaxFUNN refund and the allocation of research council projects and has come to the conclusion that private accounts for 2.5 billion. kr. It is more than the total R & D effort in all Norwegian industries with the exception of petroleum. The report also describes the capital needs of entrepreneurs and the bottlenecks of the health industry. The health industry is also key to reducing the need for healthcare through the prevention and development of welfare services that can transfer treatment from hospitals and care institutions to patients themselves. In addition, new medicines, better diagnostic tools and medical technologies will provide better and more effective treatment. Social benefits are also high, with reduced mortality, reduced sick leave and increased quality of life for many. Norway has a competitive advantage that should be exploited better. In addition to strong research environments, we have unique health records, biobanks, birth numbers that enable us to follow trends, great willingness among the population to participate in trials and trials, and not least a strong public health service that enables us to share knowledge effectively. But what we lack are strong industrial locomotives as we have in other industries where we have succeeded – Statoil, Hydro, Telenor, Kongsberg Gruppe, Marine Harvest and Lerøy Seafood. While our neighbouring countries have historically had a relatively large and well-functioning pharmaceutical industry, this type of industry has been almost absent in Norway until now. We have Oslo Cancer Cluster that has the potential to become such a locomotive in Norway. In March, they became partners in a prestigious EU project, but they need framework conditions to develop further. Trond Giske, Minister of Industry, took the initiative to establish a new level in the GCE cluster programme, Global Centres for Expertise. It is a 10-year programme designed for our world-leading clusters with the potential for growth and international markets. The current government supports this and allocated three environments such status last year. Oslo Cancer Cluster wasn't one of them, but it's just such framework conditions they need. We therefore hope that the government will announce a new round. It will give impetus to the transformation and development of new industries. The Minister of Industry replied yesterday that funds for new GCE were in the process of being revised, but what we have found, at least so far, is new risk-relief projects for the Enterprise Networking Scheme aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises that want to establish strategic and commercial cooperation with other enterprises. Short-term project support is good access to – the challenge is a long-term framework that compensates for the absence of market forces and can reverse developments in the desired direction. Another challenge is to capitalise more on research, because it is only when research is used that we create health benefits, jobs and value creation. We need a culture of health for innovation and the status of shifting research to industrial and industrial development. The health sector must be given a clear innovation mandate. This applies to both primary and specialist health services. Health care21 is a good start, but needs to be followed up with clear action and targeted action. For example, not a single grant from the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been set up in such a way as to attract business and trigger private research investment. We also record that regional health companies do not have the means to match major innovation projects, such as: approved OFU projects that can be launched through Innovation Norway. Testing units with study nurses and pathology facilities lack of capacity and resources. There are no innovation funds for these. Norway thus loses many studies due to just a lack of framework conditions. The Cancer Association finances about 25 p.m. of all cancer research in Norway. The private gifts have undoubtedly contributed to Norway’s ability to make a far greater research contribution to international cancer research than would initially be assumed from Norway’s ranking in other research fields. The development of new medicinal products is expensive and the risk of loss is very high. It is estimated that only one in 10000 new potential medicinal products manufactured in the laboratory will ever reach the patient. On average, the development of a new medicinal product takes 12 to 13 years. A prerequisite for the translation of research results into new medicinal products and treatments is that some are willing to take the risk of developing new medicinal products and therapies based on research results. But we have successes in Norway: Algeta, who was sold to Bayer for 20 billion. NOK, and Nycomed, who have previously been sold. Both continue to be active in Norway and are among our main actors in the field. There are two good examples showing the enormous potential of Norwegian basic medical research. There is a need for better organisation of clinical studies and demonstration platforms for nutrition growth and for increased investment in research by industry. It will attract more clinical studies to Norway and help Norwegian patients access the latest and most innovative treatment. The representative of Sveinung Stensland announced yesterday that the government will produce a programme of 130 million. For clinical studies. That's good. Norway already has several high international class biomedical research environments. The Life science initiative of the University of Oslo, together with Oslo University Hospital, is one of the largest competence bases for life science in the Nordic countries and Europe. In addition, we have strong biomedical environments in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. This base of competence must be used strategically to attract private investment and business as well as human capital from abroad. But there is a remarkably low profile in marketing the attractiveness we have in clinical research. For example, the Danish authorities are adding: the importance of this, even though they already have strong industries. Active profiling is necessary to achieve global competition for research investments. There is a need for different departments to move in the same direction. Research policy must be geared towards promoting the capitalisation of research, cooperation between public and private activities and, in particular, towards an industrial environment capable of further developing products. Health must be given a clear innovation mandate. Enterprise policy that will lead to transformation and new knowledge-based businesses must, through up-to-date tools and conscious capital management, ensure that we have a comprehensive research and innovation system that creates values for society as a whole, individuals and a thriving business. In the case of capital, the State has an instrument in Argentina that could contribute to the setting up of a Norwegian pharmaceutical venture fund, but they have shown little interest. Investinor is hungry for pharmaceuticals and medtech and has little competence in this field. So what about establishing a state health venture fund of the size of Investinor, which had a mandate to invest in health-related industries? It would make it easier to attract also Nordic and European capital to Norwegian future ‘Algeta’. The scope for increased health value creation in Norway has never been greater. All actors in this value chain must be conscious of their responsibilities and unite on concrete actions that will provide increased knowledge, better public health and national economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2339	Health and care are an industrial policy area for the government, as the long-term research and higher education plan also indicates. There has been a lot of good progress in the development of business health and care in recent years, and there is potential for more. Before Pentecost, there was an interesting report on value creation in the health industry. The report was prepared by Menon Economics on behalf of a group of business actors. I want to commend the actors for the initiative – this is the first time we see a report describing the health industry in figures. The figures presented in the report show an industry with increased turnover and significant exports and research and development efforts. We gradually have several examples of companies that have made great progress. Photocure, Algeta, Nordic Nanovector and Ultimovacs are some examples. The development of these companies contributes to well-being and health while creating values and profitable jobs, i.e. double profits. The government has high ambitions to exploit the potential for economic development even better. In the context of the Government’s action plan for the follow-up to the Health Care2l strategy, the status and needs of instruments across the value chain – from basic research to innovation and industrial development – were being bypassed by the ministries. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries coordinates government policies to facilitate innovation and industrial development. My approach to the questions in the interpellation involves, first, facilitating industrial development in the sector and, second, facilitating increased clinical research in Norway. Let me start with business development. The government will strengthen a broad and diverse business life and rates of high-impact innovation policy action. We see it as the public role to facilitate research and innovation that can provide the basis for new and better health services and for business development and new, profitable jobs. Departments finance both basic research and applied research that can contribute to this. For example, my department finances health and care research both through the Research Council and the Health Regions. We must have an effective and powerful instrument that hits, especially now in the transition period we are in. It is gratifying to see that health and care projects are high in competition for the funds of the various schemes. The user-driven innovation arena, BIA, Norway's research council's largest programme for business. This programme shall contribute to maximising value creation through research-driven innovation in enterprises. The BIA supports research projects based on the enterprise’s own strategies and challenges, regardless of area or theme. Health is now the sector with the greatest impact in the BIA – when biomedicine, medical technology and welfare technologies are merged. In 2015, 25 pst. by the innovation projects funded by the BIA, and approximately 23 pst. of the appropriations were in the field of health and care. It tells us that there are strong and competitive environments in the sector. The government strengthened the BIA scheme by 90 million. SEK in 2014, 63 million. SEK in 2015 and 120 million. SEK in 2016, of which 50 million. NOK of these were part of the conversion package. Other instruments in the Research Council and Innovation Norway have also been strengthened, including: TAX FUNN and the establishment of the grant scheme. An industry needs a market, both at home and outside. About 85 pst. of the health and care market in Norway is public, making the health and care sector – the public sector – a major buyer. By means of innovative acquisitions, hospitals and municipalities can promote industrial development. Promoting innovation through public acquisitions means finding better solutions to business tasks by using known goods and services in new areas or by developing new products in cooperation with industry. The Government has drawn up a new government acquisition legislation. The aim is to provide better services to citizens, more business development and more and better innovation through public acquisitions. Innovation in public acquisitions is included in the long-term focus on innovation in the health and care sector – from 2007 to 2017 – between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. In recent years, the Ministry of Health and Health has given health regions more innovative acquisitions. This occurred by 2015 at the latest when health regions were commissioned to implement so-called pre-commercial projects. This is a method that encourages the development of products and services in cooperation with industry that will respond better to the needs of contracting entities than current solutions. In response to the mission, Health South-East has committed itself as a partner in the National Supply Development Programme. The region participates in the Team of Innovative Public Acquisitions – under this programme. Initiatives have also been taken towards the project management for a new hospital in Drammen and the management of the Tønsberg project. Needs and dialogue with potential suppliers are under way. In addition, the region has organised an inspirational seminar for the Department of Purchasing in the Hospital Partner. Health South-East has also participated as a partner in a Nordic project on innovative acquisitions, funded by Nordic Innovation. This year, a national purchasing function is established for hospitals which will lead to better, more reasonable and more efficient procurement at hospitals. The development of innovative procurement in health enterprises can be reinforced by the establishment of this purchasing function. The notification of medicinal products has also provided us with a national pharmaceutical policy, one of which is the organisation of research and innovation. The notification of the medicinal product contains several measures to increase the number and extent of clinical studies in all treatment methods. The increase could allow more patients access to trial treatment and provide a basis for nutrient development in Norway. The representative asks whether it would be appropriate to designate funds for clinical studies in health establishments. For more than 10 years, the Ministry has earmarked funds for clinical research in health enterprises through a partial results-based grant for research. A key measure in the notification of medicinal products was the establishment of a new clinical treatment research programme in the specialist healthcare service. The programme shall contribute to the predictable financing of major national clinical studies that respond to the needs identified by the patient, the service, decision-makers and the researcher himself. The programme is in place and now plans to release 130 million. kr for the autumn. The programme will open up industrial cooperation, provided that the study meets the needs of the patient and the service, and that the study is anchored in health firms. The result-based grant for research in health enterprises rewards different aspects of research, such as: quality, cross-regional cooperation, allocations from national and international competitive venues such as the EU, publications and doctoral degrees. In order to stimulate multiple clinical studies, it will be assessed whether these factors should be supplemented by a factor for the number of patients participating in clinical studies. In that case, it will give rise to a redistribution of the result-based grant. The assumption is that good data are available on ongoing clinical studies and participating patients. Such a database for clinical intervention studies is being established. It shall be carried out by regional health undertakings and in cooperation with the research information system CRIStin and the Regional Ethical Committees for Health and Medical Research. We have established a national infrastructure to facilitate the faster and more professional conduct of clinical studies, known as NorCRIN. The VIRIL Advisory Office of the National Medicines Agency also contributes to this purpose. This is in line with the needs of the service and industry. Technology transfer offices, which are linked to university hospitals and universities, are key players in building bridges between research and the future industry. Offices shall include, inter alia: manage and follow up clinical studies and manage research funds. The government has arranged for foreign investors wishing to establish their business in Norway to receive guidance and information through Invest in Norway, which was established in 2013 under Innovation Norway. There are several strong business clusters in health and care, and it is well suited to attracting foreign research environments and investment, among others. in clinical studies. The report on value creation in the health industry questions whether we see a change in pace in the health industry. Much in the report suggests this, and the government wants to contribute to such a shift in pace by facilitating research, clinical studies and growth in an industry that will play an important role both in addressing future health and care challenges and, not least, in contributing to new, profitable jobs in Norway – contributing to government budget revenue, not only jobs that contribute to government expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2385	Thank you to the Council of State for a very positive response. It is quite right that purchasing power can be better used – we agree on this – but it is also about a cultural change in enterprises, in health industries and not least in primary health. When I've been to a health company, the feedback is that when they choose that profession, they're like going to dedicate themselves to saving people. It is not entirely compatible to interact with the private sector and make money on it. How can we break that culture and say that it's actually a plus? In fact, you are helping to further develop the provision of health care to provide better services to citizens by taking your knowledge further and industrialising it. It is a cultural change and a stronger incitement linked to the research funds towards introducing those who set that path. I also brought up the Global Centres of Expertise. Will there be new calls there, because that's exactly the framework conditions that Oslo Cancer Cluster needs? Their period under the NCE programme is running out. The other clusters were given the opportunity — three of them at least — to further develop for ten years through the Global Centres of Expertise. So marketing and attractiveness of clinical research: how can we learn from the Danes, who have a much stronger pharmaceutical industry? When we are in such rapid development and rapid growth, how can we help raise this field so that we become even more attractive? Health is international, and we need that interaction both to attract capital and to attract the good minds. So Argentum and Investinor: once we have chosen and we know that other industries need venture capital, but that both of these two aren't designed today to capture new industries, how can we turn it that way? The last question concerns antibiotic resistance. It's an area where we don't have so far international, big industrial players in health that sees it's right to bet, and it's money to earn from it. How can we in Norway, which, after all, has so much capital, be able to attract our heads to bet on developing new antibiotics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2402	I fully agree with the representative that there is a need for a cultural change in public health in terms of the willingness and ability to cooperate with private individuals. There is a cultural change that this government has introduced in many areas, not least in what is the main area of health, namely service development, where there is now a completely different policy in that area, where there is a clear mission for the health region that cooperation with private people is part of the solution and not a problem, which was communicated during the previous government. We also gave a very clear mission in 2015 to the health regions to use the opportunities for public procurement to participate in development work. In the case of Oslo Cancer Cluster, it is possible to apply to become a Global Centre of Excellence, as they have done in the past. They will also have the opportunity to do so in the future, and the Minister of Industry Ruth Grung replied to yesterday's questioning. But it's not the government that sits and chooses who will get that kind of status. It's a purely professional question where one competes with others. There will also be the situation in future calls. The Centre will depend on its compliance with the professional requirements and on their winning in that competition. The availability of capital is what is also highlighted in the review of the industry to which I referred in my answer as one of the most challenging areas. I don't think this industry is different from other industries. I would also like to highlight the availability of competent private capital, because what we see from all the business clusters that have grown up in Norway – whether oil, fish or other industries – is that one also depends on the existence of competent private capital, if this is to be something that builds up over time to become sustainable, profitable jobs. By that I mean private capital that knows the area in which you invest. It is good when it is supplemented by public capital. This is why the Seed Fund established in Bergen will, among other things: have health as one of their areas of competence. Then it is an advantage for private individuals to keep their capital so that they can invest in new, profitable jobs. It's a very bad strategy to take from them the capital and then distribute the tenth afterwards, because then there'll be fewer investments, no more investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2413	Thanks to the interpellant for the interpellant on the health industry. As the Council of State also pointed out in its answer, we now have quite good figures to show us what the known sizes are in Norway, but which also provide good indications of what the perspective might be for Norwegian possibilities. There is a little more atmosphere to raise new industries with a low oil price and a clear need to build new industries in this country. After hearing the interpellant and the Council of State, I was a little worried that this would just become a touching consensus about who is most likely to build this new industry. It was not when the Council of State got the floor for the second time. I have to say that I expect the government to be able to lift a global industry that Norway has obvious advantages in being able to participate in, without referring to the privatisation of our common health service as what is kind of the main concern, because Norway has good conditions to succeed in creating a stronger health industry, taking market shares and getting growing businesses. It's about having a high level of education, we have a high quality of research, we have unique health records and biobanks, as the interpellant pointed out, and we have the undergrowth of companies that show great potential. We also have an increasing international entrepreneurial competence in Norway, and we have increased efforts at innovation in health businesses. In addition, we have natural advantages within e.g. bio-prospecting. Building on that basis, I believe, is essential for future growth and well-being. With the health challenges we see in the world today, biomedicine is a global growth industry, and Norway has the advantage of allowing us to share in this growth. We have e.g. the diversity of species at sea, which has been explored to a lesser extent, despite the fact that the sea covers almost 70 pst. of the surface of the earth. Norway manages large seas, and there are likely to be tens of thousands of species that have not been tested and that may be important sources of new substances for the future development of medicinal products. We don't know this today, but we know that previous research has given us drugs, and that will happen again. Norway has a large-scale international biobank and health data base and will be an attractive partner for the international pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, we need to stimulate and assume that both national and international cooperation must take place in order to achieve optimum use of these data and this biological material. Competence and resources across regions and institutions are becoming important, and it is important to also have clear governance signals from the current government on where to go. Today, our health care material is not used well enough, because it is not available enough. Now, good decisions are at the root of speeding up that work. We want from the Workers' Party that biomedicine is part of a strategic area in Norway when we talk about transforming for the future with a less oil-induced economy. Then we need to invest in structures and instruments so that we can reap from these Norwegian health studies, biobanks and health records. We need to strengthen the clusters and the TTOs of the country's universities, in particular the medical faculties, and we need to redeem a better exploitation and increased commercialisation of medical research. Then tap on the shoulder of the interpellant. Here, we believe that Norway needs to invest, both for future value creation and jobs and for better medical treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2428	In the contributions of the Minister of Health, we received a broad review of various incentive schemes for research and the importance of innovative public procurement. We also received confirmation of the important response of the drug notification to this area we are discussing today, and the industry itself is also facing an incredibly exciting time. If we are able to take the important and proper measures, health can become a major and important industry for Norway in the future. I think we're well on our way to achieving that goal. There is a great deal of consensus in this debate on the Norwegian potential for development and growth in the health sector, but we cannot ignore the fact that there are also political dividing lines. Interestingly, the Workers' Party is very much talking about the need for greater commercialisation in research and development in health, while when we are discussing service production in the health sector, we often meet a completely different Labour Party, a Workers' Party that believes that care is not suitable for outsourcing, which does not see the need to benchmark important services, and which does not see that in order to address the needs of the care sector in the years to come, we need more, not less innovation in services as well. We know from experience that the private sector has good results in this area. Innovation Norway's smoking fresh report, Dreamlift 2016, says it very clearly: ‘Successful innovation in the health sector has triple winning effects. For each patient, better treatment, medicine and care will provide a much better and longer life. Society benefits from better and more resource-efficient health services Business wins when it is able to create and sell the world's best solutions to key health needs. [[...]] Health as an industry differs from many other industries by the fact that the public makes up the major part of the market. Population ageing and new, large patient groups generate growth in public health tasks. Extensive needs are a potentially powerful driver of innovation in the health industry. When major export revenues from the petroleum sector are reduced or absent, the public sector needs to rethink how we finance and organise the comprehensive Norwegian welfare society.» In the Right, we share this outlook on the challenges we face, and therefore believe that the Labour Party should be more strongly challenged as to why the service provision itself in the care sector should be fully protected from competition for quality, for competition for innovation and for the satisfaction of patients. Nor do we fully understand that in a discussion about new Norwegian health industry, the tax framework conditions in Norway are also important. Taxes on wealth are a challenge. The property tax differs between foreign and Norwegian enterprises, it is a tax on Norwegian ownership which is unfortunate in the construction of industries, such as the new Norwegian industrial venture. I want Norwegian entrepreneurs to be able to go all the way from start-up to delivery of important products and services in the market, without having to sell the company out of the country for tax reasons. A recent report from BI and Oslo Economics confirms that although the multinational pharmaceutical sector in Norway is smaller than in other European countries, the impact of the sector is significant. Multinational pharmaceutical companies are one of the main actors in pharmaceutical research and innovation in Norway and contribute to the creation of highly specialised jobs of good quality. In the Right, we are pleased that the Workers' Party has a great commitment to this area, and I would like to thank the representative Grung for having chosen to address the topic so that we can discuss this in the Storting today. I hope that we can reach a cross-political agreement on the importance of facilitating a large source of income for the health sector and create important jobs in Norway in the years to come, and I hope that we can also agree that the private sector must become equivalent actors with the public sector in several areas. There are positive notes, I think, from the representative Grung also when it comes to this today. We need a consensus that all good forces must be the goal of a healthy nutrition in growth, and I hope that this debate is a good start for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2448	When I heard the debate, I thought that it was a cross of thought that we have seen how the government – both from the previous government and from this government, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and now the Minister of Industry – has visited and visited Oslo Cancer Cluster, and everyone welcomes the efforts and discusses how promising this work is for Norway to be in the forefront of crucial cancer research. It is about the possibility of helping people and also the possibility of getting better nutrition in this area. Then I have to say that I think the answers we have received become a little passive. I have raised the question of Oslo Cancer Cluster in the Question Time earlier, with the Minister of Industry, and we heard answers from the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Health in the Question Time yesterday – and in the debate today – that they have to apply again, and that it is not the government that decides whether they will be able to receive support. What I'm concerned about is whether we have arrangements that are suitable for driving forward developments in this field. For example: the development of cancer medicine, we know that it will take an average of 13 years to arrive, through experimental phases and the different stages to go through, as the Minister of Health is well aware. Then it is clear, in the case of a scheme called the Norwegian Centres of Excellence, the one that Oslo Cancer Cluster has now had, which has a limit of ten years, that it is a matter of whether it is appropriate in this area to have such limitations on the instrument. Then I am aware that there are some EU rules, etc., but there have also been many cases where you have been able to negotiate and make changes based on the real situation and needs. Global Centres of Expertise, which is shown that Oslo Cancer Cluster is now applying for, is a system that they have tried to apply for, as it has been said here, for a few years, on a few occasions. They also get in response that the criteria for the scheme are such that Oslo Cancer Cluster's work is not well enough within the scheme, as I understand some of those answers. I believe that we need to look at the suitability of the instrument to promote better development in this area. If I'm also going to involve the fund that stands for the next stage – when you're going to invest in the individual company, not in Oslo Cancer Cluster – Investinor is the new fund that could be suitable for this area. But there are also the criteria, the purpose, formulated in such a way that it is very much about travel life, maritime activity, traditional industries in Norway that have quite a lot of access to capital, while biotechnology has not been involved in the main purposes but has come into some subgroup now. I guess only one project within Investinor's portfolio is about biotechnology. There is a great need to go through the instrumentation, whether it is suitable to help this type of industry. The arrangements we have don't seem very accurate. When we meet a case like Oslo Cancer Cluster, which all cheers, but which has no opportunities within any scheme, I don't think you should go into the individual application from Oslo Cancer Cluster, but I think we need to see if we have arrangements that are suitable for developing medical research and nutrition, and where those who are engines here can get the necessary support and help from the authorities in the stages they're going through, that we're doing well enough to organize. I think there is a common purpose here, but I think we also have a common responsibility to see if the instrument should be improved to meet this industry in a more correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2461	I note that there are two parties that draw this important load, but we are doing well. The Labour Party is in opposition – as I have said earlier from this pulpit – and we are taking the opportunity to renew our policy. I come from the West – and so does the Council of State – and we know very well about the industrial tradition, and we know that in petroleum there are special rules, research funds are right in a department, and everything is sewn together. When we are going to build a new health industry, it becomes absolutely essential that we have a much closer cooperation with regard to research, and I repeat once again: it is absolutely essential to address the need for research funding to be more focused on providing concrete results and interaction with industry. It was not answered well enough now, I guess we'll follow up on it. The same applies to the mandate for innovation in health, and I think it must be much clearer when we turn it around. The third is the change and adaptation of industrial policy in order to be prepared for the transition we are facing. With regard to the Global Centres of Expertise, yesterday the Minister of Industry said that it was in revision, but we haven't found it again, so I would like a confirmation of whether the funds are there, that they might be in the state budget when we get that far. Then it's important that we make better use of the health data. There we also want a dialogue with regard to making them more accessible, of course within the ethical and privacy standards that apply, but also to give business access to them and be able to use them actively to develop new industries, new jobs and new value creation. When it comes to the debate in relation to nutrition, I think I'll leave it. We are very clear about what we mean by health industries, and we are very clear about what we mean by the core area of care, so we can rather agree where we agree. When it comes to accessing more of the state capital, I think it's quite a bit of inertia in view of the large industries that have existed over such a long time, turning around and being able to decorate them and seeing the potential, even if you've shown very high numbers of what they contribute to the state budget, and that Norway needs to support competitive industry, for which we have a long tradition, so that's what we're going to get back to. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2478	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, in which we challenge each other in a very important area. I am absolutely convinced that health as an industry will be one of the areas contributing to more profitable private-sector jobs in Norway that contribute to government budget revenue, and not just jobs in the state budget. I also experience when I hear both the representative of Kjerkol and the representative of Grung that a lot of what should be done is going through, and I believe that my answer shows that we are also doing that on the whole range, from research, the business-oriented schemes in the fields of establishment, innovation, start-up to the public as a customer and buyer. What I see is that, among other things, With regard to the question of the feasibility of public-private cooperation on the research and development side, innovation in Norway in 2014 accounted for more than 50 projects with a total allocation of 53 million. SEK of a total pot of 285 million. NOK, which went to health. That is an important point; the arrangements in this area that this government has consistently strengthened in the state budgets, we see that the health industry is doing well, and the health industry is now at the level of the industries we have thought of as the traditional industries in Norway. For example, in the case of the TAX FUNN scheme, health is the fifth largest sector of petroleum, oil and gas, ICT and marine seafood. It shows that health is about to get into the area of the really large known Norwegian food clusters, and that is a very positive development. This needs to be reinforced, not least in the field of research, in terms of clinical studies and the ability to use the health research that is now being done through the Tromsø study, through the new HUNT study. Work is now to be done, which the representative is also aware of, in the area of registers, to make them more accessible – simpler legislation on research and development. But then there's a political point that there's a pretty big difference between a party that wants private warmly welcome to 7 pst. of the establishment, and a party wishing to receive more than 90 pst in private. by the establishment. It's really a pretty big difference in the potential for economic development in this area, which you can't talk away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2489	Case No. 11 is then finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2495	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2502	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose how broadband telecommunications can be effectively secured in the Norwegian part of the northern regions and that this should be followed up with the necessary equity reserves by 2017 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2586	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2595	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 3–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2604	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Iselin Nybø, on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a plan for the State Sign Language School offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2627	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to notify the Storting of the Sign Language position in Norway, and in particular the sign language in the training, the rights of sign language users, and the obligations of public authorities and other bodies to sign language users and the development of the sign language and sign language culture.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to state the status of measures 15 in St.meld. No 35 Objectives and considerations, to assess the situation of sign-language users with regard to practical arrangements for the use of sign-languages in different areas of society and the formal rights and obligations attached thereto.’;» [[2007-2008]] The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2661	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2668	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Prop. 93 L Changes to the Repurchase Act are sent back to the government. [[2015-2016]] [[purity per siding]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2724	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2737	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-02.ana.ud303e2751	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
