ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e27	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, now takes the seat. Anette Trettebergstuen's application for sick leave is submitted by the Workers' Group from 17 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e60	Lasse Juliussen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e67	It is a pleasure to promote a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Ingunn Gjerstad, Torgeira Knag County and myself on the rights of indigenous peoples in the guidelines of the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e88	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e97	Let me first thank you for the cooperation within the committee. Norway has a history of labour and social policy that we can be proud of. No one in Norway is to be abandoned. If one becomes vacant, one shall have a decent security of income. If one becomes ill, one shall have a decent income hedge. If you need a help to get back, you should get that help. These are politically agreed positions. But they're important. They are jointly drawn up, liabilities on liabilities. Through disagreement and agreement, we have discussed good solutions. That is the truth about the development of the Norwegian welfare state. Not one party, not one side of politics has the credit. We've done it together. But society is evolving. New challenges arise and new solutions need to be found. Such new solutions are to be discussed today. One has to ask: when the dust had just fallen after the Nav reform, why did the government put down an expert selection to assess how Nav could get better? After such a major reform process, one might think that the right to reform would be great. The answer is as simple as it is sad. The objectives of the Nav reform were not achieved. Several research teams have followed up and followed along. The results are clear. We're about as good as helping people get back to work, education, or over to dissatisfaction for those who are going to have it, as we were before the reform was introduced. For one group it has become worse: young recipients of health-related benefits. It happens after a period of long downtime, when people experienced uncertainties about what rights they had, and people stood in line to get the help they needed. This is the result of the largest administrative reform in Norwegian history. We're going to let history be history, but we can learn from it too. Let it be clear: these results — or lack of results, to put it that way — are the welfare heritage of the Workers’ Party, the SVs and the Centre’s Party. But now we go on. We're correcting the red-green flaws. We're taking Nav into a new era. The challenge picture is demanding. Strong population growth can mean increased pressure on Nav. It comes in combination with demographic changes in the population and new migration challenges. We need a more labour-oriented hub, a simpler hub. Let me go through some of the grips. One is that through sensible digitisation and channel strategy, we release resources in the Nav offices. In the Nav offices, work is to be done on the right to work. Questions that can be easily answered digitally should be answered digitally. Such good self-service solutions want more from Nav employees, but that's also what users prefer. The second is that we clean up the response system. Ida, we've already started that cleanup, but we're going on. The action system in Nav is far too rigid, too flexible. The action system, which is Nav's tool to help people in work, acts almost as an obstacle to giving people the help they need. It is measured and controlled too much from a central point of view. We want more flexibility – not to measure implemented activities but to measure results. We increase labour market competence in Nav by bringing Nav closer to the labour market. If Nav wants it, they should be able to do more of the follow-up work on their own. A pilot project has been carried out and has produced very good results for users, employers and Nav. With more authoritative Nav offices that gain greater freedom, and which can help the users they know best, you also need broader and stronger environments of competence. This is why we provide more robust offices, with a broad range of skills, including: precisely because we know how difficult it is for a single Nav employee to be a generalist. Don't let there be coincidences that control what kind of help you can get when you go to your local office. There has been a great deal of positivity in the Nav message. This Communication follows up the recommendations of the expert group, which received broad support from the hearing bodies. The aim is to improve user meetings, greater room for action at local level and to increase skills and connectivity to the labour market. This government is cleaning up and delivering for Nav in a new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e138	An important part of Norwegian policy is to give people with a developmental disability the same offer and the same opportunity as other citizens. The possibility of a job is particularly important for this group. Today, the scheme «Precautionary work» provides good jobs for, among other things: persons with developmental disabilities. For the third time, the government tries to transfer responsibility for these measures to the municipalities. Why does the Right believe it is right that labour market measures for this group should be distinguished from government labour market policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e143	We believe it is important to try this because we know that there is a lot of competence in municipalities. It is a little surprising that the Workers' Party is so concerned with the budget line on which an action is to be taken. It is for some strange reason that this debate has begun to deal with – where the budget is to be, whether it is to be located with the State or municipality, not whether users are to be given the best possible follow-up. We haven't decided what will be the final solution, but we're in favour of a test project with municipal responsibility. I think it's nice that you don't even want to look at the experience of such a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e148	The representative Heggelund is working on the wrong history of why we've got where we're in the welfare community. I ask that the representative be more honest about the conflict that has led to the welfare state and the welfare society that we have. The representative referred to the expert group, Nav could get better, one was just as good at getting people to work as before the reform, so bad. No, it's worse. That is what the group of experts believes. At the large so-called robust offices, it has gone from bad to worse. The representative uses a big, fat word that it's about to be corrected, that it's going to be more labour-oriented, that it's going to be a simpler hub. I ask that language use be reduced somewhat, because this is very complicated. We can take one question. In the position of the Labour and Social Committee issued on 19 May 2016, a unanimous committee wrote: ‘The Ministry must therefore ensure that the Nav offices in each municipality have the necessary time and staff to assist people who need practical assistance in completing applications in order to obtain their legitimate benefits.’ Why does the Right go against it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e162	We do not oppose it, and we are concerned that the service offered to the residents of the municipalities should be maintained. I also notice that the representative Lundtägen of the Central Party has completely purchased the History of the Workers' Party on the Norwegian welfare state. I wonder what his political predecessors would think of such a story - but let's not take it now. Of course, you should have a good time at user meetings, be able to follow users in a proper way. That's exactly what we're doing in this message. That's exactly what we're going for. And we believe that we need broad environments of expertise in the Nav offices for the simple reason that users are going to get the tight follow-up they need. The answer lies in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e171	I think there is agreement on the importance of professionalism, that employees have a framework to do a good job in the Nav offices. But when Right is talking about a more robust hub, a bigger hub, it's impossible to get away from the fact that it also involves a hub further away from people, farther away from the labour market you're going to help people into, farther away from the community you're going to help people in. We share the goal of one common door to well-being, but it doesn't help much if that door is dismantled and gone. Therefore, I wonder whether the Right sees some dilemmas in the hard attack in the small offices and the repeated mantra that the largest is the best, and that more robust Nav offices are the way to go. And what does it have to say to people out there – who look different?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e176	There is no attack on small offices in this message. What this message is a defense is that Nav should be able to use the resources that Nav possesses, in the best possible way, precisely in order to be able to track users as closely as possible, precisely to get closer to users. It is not that people are going on trains in the streets today because they are so incredibly satisfied with the user meetings in Nav. It is not that people are walking on trains in the streets today because they are so incredibly satisfied with the proximity they have to their local Nav office. No, we want closer, better user meetings, but we also want to make sure that users are met with the skills they need to be followed up in a good way. To do that, we need to be able to release how Nav uses its resources, so that they can make the best use of them. It surprises me that SV, who is talking about more trust in the employees, does not want to give them that trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e181	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e187	The Labour Party agrees with the need for a safe, flexible and family-friendly labour market with a place for all and a labour market policy that supports high employment and low unemployment. But theory and practice are not always the same. So far, the government's policies have given the opposite result: several temporary jobs, maximum unemployment of over 20 years, falling employment rates and getting new jobs. This, of course, also affects the work of the Nav offices. Number of users increased, tasks increased. The Nav reform is the largest administrative reform in Norwegian history. We got one door where there was before three, fewer would be throwing ball between the systems. It included 16 000 annual works at that time, 265 billion. kr – then kr – and half of the population. The reform had one purpose: less social security, more in work. But it shouldn't be a coercion. Faster clearance of social security for those who need it would release resources to work more closely with those who aim to get into work. In the social security system, three schemes were added to one. Work clearance money opened up for offers as needed. A new qualification programme was introduced for those at risk of becoming long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and permanent wage subsidies became an option. But we're not going to look back. Former State Council Robert Eriksson launched the slogan: ‘We need to revisit the A in Nav.’ The Committee of Experts was set up. They made some important observations: the hub and the labour market have separated layers. Income hedges dominate as a working method. The partnership between the State and the municipality does not work well enough. They made proposals in five main areas: closer labour market and employers, increased local freedom in services tailored to the needs of users, less governance, more management, focus on users, not systems, knowledge-based services and competence in meeting users. We almost couldn't say it better ourselves. The communication follows up with proposals that we largely agree with, but not in total. Looking ahead, it is important for the Workers' Party that we have greater freedom in the use of tools, that new ways of working are developed, less emphasis on regulation management and more room for discretion. Call it social work. We have to give authority to the first line and to the users themselves, make sure that the decision-making power is close to the user. We politicians have to dare to let go more, move away from the partial focus of big business and government and place increased emphasis on target achievement through governance of results. Of course, we are concerned when billions go to so-called passive social benefits. But is the answer to the new laws, regulations and circulars on a level of detail that policy should not have been? Or should we turn the perspective around and see if the billions can rather be a social investment in increased value creation with the workline in focus? The user must not adapt to the legislation; the legislation must be adapted to the user. Individual plans must be made based on individual assumptions and interests. The obligation must become clearer both from the hub and from the user. The Nav Office must know its community, have close contacts with employers, action organisers, education systems, other states, health services, social services, doctors, housing agencies, user organisations and other Nav offices, to name a few – in short, know where to turn to for cooperation on good individual plans, both in terms of preparation and implementation. New working methods and greater responsibilities are needed in the line. Achievement of results must be a clear management responsibility at all levels. The country/municipal partnership must take advantage of each other’s advantage based on mutual trust in the best interests of the users. As most people have probably come along, we agree with many of the government's proposals. There's only one catch at all, and there we are at what the Workers' Party believes is a fundamental weakness of the message, because the post I made now is almost a copy of my own post in Stortinget on 7 June 2006, when the Nav reform was adopted. I would therefore draw attention to the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal No. 9, where we ask that work be undertaken as soon as possible to identify the internal mechanisms in the establishment that have slowed or hindered the implementation of the reform. We have some suspicions. They are in some of the proposals we are promoting, but we don't know for sure. What we're more sure about is that it probably doesn't help much to take old decisions again, without these obstacles being identified. I'm not going to go into the proposals now – I'll get back to it in a later article, if there's a need for it. I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is on with others, and those that we stand alone about. So, finally, a explanation of vote: when our proposals are likely to fall, we will subsidiaryly vote for Roman numerals I, II and III of the majority position. IV, we're already on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e206	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e213	The notification refers to economic benefit-related activity requirements and refers to Nav in Hedmark, where they have had a project with activity requirements related to living benefit, and not least to the sick leave follow-up. Making demands is about caring, and the activity requirement of course applies to those who have health to be in activity, and to those who can be able to stand in a job other than that from which they are ill. An impact assessment shows that the project on Hedmark has had good and desired effect, and it is proposed as a model for changing practices across the country. The working party says that they support the principle of activity requirements, and admits that it can be an instrument for getting more people into the labour market. But why does the Labour Party not want it to apply to everyone and to the whole country, and why do they remove the proposed 60 million? to the measure in its alternative proposal for a State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e218	As the representative Bente Stein Mathisen is concerned with his question, the Workers' Party is not opposed to activity requirements – we have been involved in introducing the provision that is now there. We have even agreed to review the provision ourselves to see if it was necessary to tighten it up a little more. We did not choose to do so, because we believe that that kind of decision should be taken locally, where they know the possibilities that actually exist. We've also been in the drama and seen. Activity requirements are fully in line with the law following local decisions, and they work well. If we were to attend a discussion about changing that paragraph, we would rather have turned the perspective around and considered introducing a right of activity, because that's what it's often lacking, that one has unfulfilled activities to offer to those who actually needed it, that's what I was into in my post: with good individual plans, this falls into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e223	It could be tempting to ask the representative Christoffersen when she says in her main post that she could make almost identical posts in 2006. Then it's interesting that over the eight years you've been in government, you don't get to grips with the challenges she's pointing to. But the advantage is that it is now at least a government that takes care of it. I think we all agree that one of the most important things for Nav is to tackle young people who are out of education and work. That's the main group for Nav. Then I have to say that I am stunned when it says in the committee's setting: «The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Workers' Party, shares the government's view that young people should be a priority target group for labour-oriented assistance.» The question is simple and straightforward: Why does the Labour Party disagree with the priority given to young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e235	First of all, as the representative Wiborg started with, I said I could make the same post. No, I didn't say that, I said I kept the same post, because it was a copy of what I said in 2006. We didn't go to elections in 2013 because Nav was perfect. On the contrary, we have fully realised that the biggest administrative reform in Norway's history, where one is to build two cultures, takes time. We weren't done. We started by simplifying the legislation, and we weren't done with it. So to the last question, why don't we join in a common remark about giving young people priority. It is simply because we chose to leave all the comments to the case rapporteur. SV and the Central Party decided to do it a little differently. We have our own comments, and we also have comments about young people. We want to strengthen the youth guarantees and have a slightly different solution than the government proposes. We find that proposal somewhat unclear, and we come back to the budget with an increase in money to strengthen youth action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e245	As many people have probably seen, there's a moth that floats and flies around the hall here today. We hope he didn't bring the article to the representative Christoffersen from 2006! [[Laughter]] What I want to say is that it's good that, as I see it, it's a broad majority in the Stortinget and in the committee on the main lines of the message we're dealing with, which is also signaled by the fact that the Labour Party will vote subsidiaryly for the multiple proposals. What I mean is a strength. I wanted to ask myself questions about up to several of the individual proposals from the Labour Party, but I will focus on one, and it is the proposal that concerns office structure/organisation. The left fully agrees that the issue of office structure must be the subject of local assessments. That's what we think we're right. But then the Labour Party suggests that the same should apply to county offices and that it should also be subject to local decisions. Then I wonder a little: who is it that will take the decisions: Is it the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e254	I believe that when assessing the extent to which Nav is available to all residents, whether it is in a municipality or in a county, all relevant authorities across the board should be able to have such good contact that everyone is allowed to join and have a word in the team. Education, higher education, for example, is an obvious partner for Nav and vice versa. So I think it should be based on a fairly thorough and comprehensive discussion, which also includes the regional level. The fact that we're saying that really has its origin in the discussion that's going on in the northernmost states right now, where Finnmark feels that one is becoming more and more a balancing post, and slowly but surely being picked apart. The proposals that Rotevatn mentions as the majority's proposal are, of course, an easier rewriting of proposals that the opposition originally promoted, but they have chosen to take out some elements. And the Sami-language services in the counties and municipalities where this is relevant, we believe it is relevant to discuss across public level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e259	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e264	I would like to begin by thanking Mr Heggelund for his good work and the Committee for Good Cooperation. This has been a long process, which began just after the government change. We then got a government that saw Nav doing a lot of good work, but Nav also had significant weaknesses and challenges, especially they have had it out of the intentions of the Storting in their time, when Nav was established, standing behind. The idea behind Nav that all residents should have one door to the public, and the fact that individuals should not be a throwball in the bureaucratic system, is a good idea. But we see that the thought unfortunately has not been followed up. I think a lot of the reason for that is that we've had a government and parties in the past that have been more concerned about defending the established, and that were not willing to go in and deal with the problems that people most labeled with Nav. All residents have contact with Nav several times during their lifetime. Whether it's birth money, child's pension, day money, pension, etc., everyone has contact with Nav. A stands for work, and the most important job Nav has is to get people back to work. Helping people to continue to work is important for society, but not least it is important for individuals. We spend a lot of time in this room on how we can fight poverty. I think we all -- most of us at least -- agree that the main way out of poverty is work for most people. If you're going to make it, you also have to have a hub that realizes it completely elementary, and that's that each individual is unique. People have different opportunities, people have different desires, people have different competences. Then we also need a hub that is capable of seeing the individual and targeting the actions as needed to help the individual – not as Nav has unfortunately been to a great extent: too busy of the systems and that everyone should fit into an A4 template. Then I am glad that we now have a government that provides a thorough Nav message that actually addresses what has been the main challenge. We now see that Nav has previously been judged largely by activities, they have been measured by the number of courses and the number of enquiries they have had with the individual user. And that's what we're going to change to is that the most important thing is the results, that's what Nav is going to be measured on. But if we're going to do this, we also need to shift more power and authority down to the individual Nav office, down to the individual case handler, so that you can use common sense. We have seen several very special examples, ranging from people who have amputated their legs, having had to go back and prove that their legs are still amputated. I think that is a very special, bureaucratic and totally unnecessary practice. The system has been like this, but there has not been any political will to address the challenges before now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e277	When the Nav message was submitted, it was interesting to hear the feedback it received. Several of us have traveled country and beach around and visited many Nav offices and talked to many users of Nav. We get a lot of enquiries in this house from people who stick their heads in the wall in their meeting with Nav. Then I am glad that the feedback this message has received is that the government actually hits the flash, and that we are now beginning to contribute to what is the main goal: it is changing the whole Nav from being a big and heavy bureaucracy reform to being a user-oriented organisation that can see the individual and thus target the actions of the individual, so that we can help more people back in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e286	The representative, Wiborg, uses a lot of words in his article. I would like to ask the representative of Wiborg to explain what concrete proposals in the communication mean that we get a more authoritative Nav office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e291	It's just to read in the configuration. You can, among other things: to propose Decision III, where we are aware of the need to increase the freedom of action of the individual Nav office. There we are also clear about what I was inside in my main post that we are changing the thinking of Nav. From Nav being managed by activities, Nav is now managed by results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e296	The representative Wiborg said that there were good thoughts about ‘one door in’ that was not followed up, and that there was a government that defended the established. No, it's probably even more serious. What was the content of the ‘one door - in’ reform was something other than the intention of the Big One. The reform took a different path from what many wanted. This led in 2008 to thousands being moved from the local Nav offices to special units. On behalf of the Center Party, I want to criticise the fact that it could be allowed to happen under the red-green government, because it weakened everything. Now there is a "new time - for work and activity" - the message government has submitted. Wiborg here believes that one should have more power and authority. But what about people in the urban offices, in the municipal offices, so that you can do the job? Does the Progress Party go in to now move professionals from special departments to the local offices to realize the big words that have been said here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e303	I am pleased that, unlike the Workers' Party, the representative Lundtegen takes self-criticism and realizes that parts of the Nav reform were not what you wanted, and that not all of the intentions of the Stortinget in its time have been followed up. Ensuring competence in each Nav office is an important debate. There is also some reason why the government has implemented, among other things. This Nav message, but also that we implement e.g. It's a local reform that the Central Party is fighting against. What's important is that we have to make sure that we have large enough and robust enough units, so that the individual user, when in contact with Nav, gets the help that the person needs. Then we also depend on having some size in the offices, and there is something in the center part that conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e310	The representative, Wiborg, speaks in his article about those who are ‘stopping their head in the wall’ in their meeting with Nav. In the past, the Progress Party has considered that this is precisely why a Nav Ombudsman has been needed to help those who today do not receive the help they need. Former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Eriksson went a long way in drawing up a Nav ombudsman as part of the future of what Nav was supposed to look like, and when that Eriksson was a magnificent representative, the judgment over the red-green was that one was ‘taphat’ since it was not yet in place. Then I wonder why the Progress Party is today going to vote against SV's proposal for a Nav Ombudsman, and whether Wiborg now believes that people should rather put their heads in the wall alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e315	Yes, it is quite right that the Progress Party has made several proposals on Nav ombudsmen, and as you know, the proposal has been voted down several times by the Socialist Left Party. But now, fortunately, we have a government that addresses the main challenges with Nav when we now make sure to change Nav from being a bureaucratic organization, where everyone is going to fit into the A4 template, to be more user-oriented and more individualized and see the individual citizen. If, in the future, it continues to show that we are unable to solve many of the main challenges Nav has, the Progress Party will be able to participate in and review the Nav Ombudsman at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e327	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for many good comments and, as I see it outside the Committee, I would also like to thank you for a good job, not least from the rapporteur, who has included me who has not been on the committee, on such an important matter. I'm also glad that it seems that the committee has gathered as much as it actually has, around the important changes, because succeeding in getting more people to work is one of the most important tasks we have as politicians. An inclusive working life is not only about ensuring a good working environment at work, but also how we can ensure that more people get into a safe and good job. When dealing with the Nav message, it is the most important measure to help those who have become unemployed or have other welfare challenges. Work allows individuals to use their resources, knowledge and competences. It gives a social arena — a place to belong to — and it gives the individual the opportunity to be self-sustaining. Work is the most important measure to prevent poverty, and for the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone who can work is given individual help to enter the labour market. We are at a time when unemployment has increased. Losing the job is very demanding, and many people know about the uncertainty. Being away from work for a long time is even more demanding. Those who have been in the furthest position in the queue are now just pushed back even further. We must therefore ensure that those who have just lost the job quickly come to work, while strengthening the efforts of those who have been outside for a long time. Nav is crucial to solving these challenges. When Nav was established, the aim was to help more people in work and activity. We were going to make sure that fewer people ended up in social benefits, and that everyone got the help they needed. Everything has not gone completely according to plan, and Nav has been subjected to some criticism. But a lot also goes in the right direction. Every day, Nav employees make a great effort to help people with different needs. The Nav message we are discussing today has received good feedback in many areas. One of the measures especially appreciated by the Christian People's Party is the aggregation of youth guarantees. It helps to ensure transparent rules so that we can help as many young people as possible into work. It is particularly important in these days when youth unemployment is too high. The government has proposed to remove the State staffing guarantee for Nav offices with three or fewer State employees. In many small places, these jobs are important in order to deliver a good offer. After dialogue with the government parties and the Left, I am therefore pleased with the important clarification contained in the Roman Numeral Decisions, namely that any changes in the staffing of the individual Nav Office as a result of the lifting of the State Manning Guarantee should be locally anchored and based on good local dialogue, while at the same time confirming that the service offered to the municipality's inhabitants should be maintained. It's good for the user, and it ensures that we put the user in the center. The government has also called for Nav to be able to do more in their own right. One should go away from counting the number of places of action to count the number of jobs left over. In particular, I agree that it is important to ensure that a person actually manages to get people to work, but I have to say that I am somewhat concerned that someone in this work forgets those who are far away. When more is available, and when more is needed to measure the result, Nav may rather help those who are the easiest to get back to work, thus giving up those who need extra assistance. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that everyone gets individual and good follow-up, regardless of whether a person needs a lot of help, or if a person just needs a little help. The management industry has good competence to follow those most remote from the labour market. It's important that Nav plays on the knowledge they've built up over a long time. If we're going to succeed in getting more people to work, we're going to have to work together. Nav can't do this job alone. I would like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 3, in addition to voting in favour of proposal No. 11 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e352	There has been a lot of focus on getting more people to work, as the representative said. The knowledge-based evaluation shows that the large offices have worse results. It's something that the Center Party places on, I hope it also applies to the Christian People's Party. So we're going in to move people from special departments to the urban offices and the municipal offices, and we want enough professionals in the local offices to help those who really need it the most by looking them in the eye. My question is about the manning guarantee and the Roman number decision. The representative said he was happy that it says it should be good local dialogue. So it's a question of what that means. It is a contract between the municipalities of the rapporteur and the state that is the whole construction of the community of Nav. Is it that the representative now said that good dialogue means that the local government can decide whether or not to provide such a manning guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e359	I read with interest the comments also from the Center Party, and I think you point to something important. When the reform shifted much of the expertise and authority from the local Nav offices to the administrative units, it created some challenges. So there were interesting comments from the Center Party. To the question of the crew guarantee, my clear opinion, as I also said in my post, is that it has been important to ensure a good offer at the smallest Nav offices in particular. But one also sees that there are some challenges. With all that you have to be able to in a Nav office, you're struggling with some point skills, and you can't handle everything. I believe it is right that someone with good dialogue and local anchoring can make changes. As I perceive local anchoring, it must involve a local consent. Just how it should be designed, I'm not going to tell on behalf of the majority, but at least that's how I see it. I think it's also important to avoid big frictions between the state and municipal sections of the Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e366	The Christian People's Party has often marked itself as a party that stands up for the weakest in society. In a previous line change, the question was related to permanent work. In the answer given, a few impressions might be that for the Right, this is a question of what budget line things should be on. For our part, it is an important principle that we should continue to regard permanent work as a labour market measure and that it is therefore natural that it is part of the state labour market policy. Can the representative, Mr Ropstad, clarify whether he agrees with the views of the Labour Party, that this is and must be a labour market measure, or does the representative, Mr Ropstad, also consider that there is a more budgetary question, of where it is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e371	Thank you for the question. Of course, I agree that it should be a labour market measure, and then I should not conclude that the Right's answer was really the way Andersen interprets it. I believe that VTA is one of the important offers that we have, not just to create a better and more meaningful life, but that it can also be with a further out in work. So I'm happy with that focus the Workers' Party also has in the comments, and I feel that the committee is really grouped about it. What has been my concern, as I said a little about in my post, is that you move in a direction where VTA gets more neglected, and instead spends resources on those that are the easiest to get into work. It might be a natural priority, but then one whole thing in it forgets. So at least for my part, it's extremely important that one manages both to keep the pressure on helping those who are close, and at the same time to help those who are furthest away, whether those with reduced working capacity or those who are on VTA measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e380	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e385	First, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting. The centre party is working for a culture of society based on authoritative people who think seas and who take responsibility. The decentralisation of power, labour and capital is essential. Personal property rights for land and houses, a seafaring people, are absolutely central. We're for Cohesion Norway, not Difference Norway. This view of political values has brought Norway forward to a safe country for people, based on trust among people, and it is a result of political debate, strife and decisions in the United Kingdom. Today's government chooses, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, political solutions that provide a clear direction towards Difference Norway. The free movement of workers across the borders of the EEA Agreement between countries with quite different situations in terms of unemployment and pay and working conditions is the strongest and greatest driver for the creation of Difference Norway. The potential of economies of scale for more even income between peoples is weakened. Less and less power is in this house and in this room. Therefore, the Centre Party systematically works to replace the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement based on border control, where cross-border movement of workers outside the Nordic region requires one to have a permanent job ready in Norway before entry. Nav in a new time, therefore, for work and activity, has a much more demanding task in the time now, with increasing differences between people. For the Centre Party, Nav shall be for those people who need the most community. We're going to take care of the flock in a good and respectful way. Nav shall have the necessary funding and professionals to make use of the ability of people to work for social work that generates income for each individual's living. People must be given the opportunity to work according to their ability. In the case of free immigration of skilled, industrious workers, they are becoming weaker in Norwegian working life. Today’s organisation of hubs and economic instruments is not in any way related to the ever-increasing challenges. The rapporteur's great words do not change this in practice. Strengthening the A-in Nav requires local government agencies that can assess and make decisions about what is best for individuals in order to move on to the labour market. These municipal agencies have people who know better the local or urban employers who have qualities that give good results to people who are struggling to establish a permanent employment contract with their working capacity. The centre party is therefore in favour of a strong strengthening of the municipal hubs and urban centres with professionals, decision-making skills and greater discretion in the context of larger measures – i.e. more freedom under responsibility, while the more than 100 specialised Nav units provide competent people with the first line in the local offices. In a letter dated 7 October this year, the KS spoke very strongly about this. I'm not going to refer to it, but I'm asking the Council of State to pay particular attention to the fact that the partner that the state has, namely the municipalities, represented here at the Municipal Councils, is very clear about what has happened, and that a development in the direction that has been until today, with the weakening of the contents of the Nav offices, is the wrong way to go. Nav also has a v – for well-being. A safety network in Nav is the second important pillar, which needs to be restored in accordance with the same principle – a national Nav office in municipalities and urban areas that can make decisions. The centre party has taken over its heart that the people who need the safety net that Nav represents are the ones among us who most need some people that they can see in their eyes and talk to. Modern ICT systems are important to get in place, seas if they cost a lot, because they will facilitate the work throughout the stage, but for the Centre Party it is clear that this must be combined with a clear opportunity to meet professionals from Nav in their own municipality, so that the situation for individuals can be thoroughly clarified early, and that misunderstandings can be corrected before they end up in desert migration. I would like to underline: a desert hike in a cold, foreign system. The local Nav offices have two owners – the state and the municipality. Cooperation shall be based on a signed, time-limited contract between representatives of the State and the rapporteur or adviser. The Nav offices play a key role in the tasks of the municipality to create greater security for them by the municipality's inhabitants who are struggling, and the Nav manager – I would stress this – should be in the leadership group in the municipality. This fact needs to be higher on the agenda of local government, so that elected representatives are given knowledge and experience, and thus insight into how they give priority to municipal action. For example, the social housing offered by municipalities must be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e402	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposals of the Centre Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e409	I think both the representative from the Center Party and I'm interested in youth. That's why it's important to think about how to get young people into work. One of the proposals is compulsory activity. The Central Party believes that this is primarily a political mark and not an individual follow-up, but clarifies a proposal for a genuine youth guarantee with the right to the necessary measures. I want to ask the representative from the Central Party a question: Is not the obligation of activity the same as giving people an individual opportunity, and that the goal must be to get as much work done as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e414	The centre party is very strong to have a youth guarantee designed so that the local Nav office has the flexibility to do what is best for each youth. This should not mean that the weakest among young people get worse. We have a duty to work for, and that's what it's possible after today's law for those who have the right to use it against. At the same time, if something needs to be done, it should be combined with a right of activity — that is, the youth has a right to activity — so that it does not just become a honorary word without any change in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e421	I think the Central Party representative and we agree that politicians are basically living their lives away from what most users of Nav are doing. At the same time, we know that Nav meets their users daily and has the sole task of providing their users with the best possible services. Nav has been detailed for many years by overly and well-meaning, but very poorly thought out, demands. The Nav message shall provide guidance to those who know the challenges. Therefore, my question is: why does the Centre not rely on the professional assessments made by the Employment and Welfare Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e426	I can stress that many elected people live far away from the users. That's why it's very liberating, what Ivar Aasen said in his day: "One doesn't find anything until one comes where it is." That's why – for me at least – it's very useful to talk to those who are experts on how the Nav system works, namely those who are struggling. So there's a question of trusting. Unfortunately, not only the department, but also the underlying offices, are increasingly being politically instructed. Unfortunately, they represent too much the political correctness. They have too little anchor in the reality people live in, and it wants the Center Party to contribute to a change in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e439	The Norwegian labour market is changing. Low oil prices have led to increased unemployment, especially in the South of the West, while new industries also offer new employment opportunities for those looking for work. We also have an increasingly multicultural labour market, which can make employment services more challenging, and Nav is today facing a very large task. When Nav was first established, the idea was that employment services should be at the centre. I don't think it was like that, and the Nav office has a number of other tasks to do. The purpose of this message is to change the focus of secondary tasks on just employment. The focus should be to get people to work. Today, the Nav offices must comply with a comprehensive code, and they will be detailed in many ways, including from this room. Report. St. 33 for 2015–2016 aims to change it – at least as far as it goes – and give Nav offices greater opportunity to use awareness when dealing with issues. A system as large as Nav needs to take a height for people to be different and need different follow-up. The frustration we often hear from Nav users is that the system is too rigid, as one would say. That rigidity must of course seek to come to life. In my view, the biggest challenge we're facing is how we get more young people to work, because it's one of the areas where, unfortunately, statistics haven't gone bright in recent years. The increase in the number of young disabled people is particularly alarming, but it is also the great majority of young people who are neither on social security nor at work, nor under challenge, nor are looking for work. There is a large group of people, who today fall between most chairs, and we don't see. For many of the young people, Nav may seem like a little unwieldy labyrinth. Therefore, it is nice that the message states that we should get a hub where the youth feels cared for. It is important that users have sufficient time with their case handler, and it is important that communication can be made safe by using social media, chat functions, e-mail and electronic communication with young people. Many young people feel that they don't have enough knowledge of what they actually have. The message therefore asks Nav to pay more attention to informing young people about their rights. Being well-informed as a Nav user gives you much better intentions to get to work and take advantage of the possibilities that actually exist. More understanding, tailor-made services and better communication do not come of their own. We have therefore – through the setting, through the message – facilitated the possibility of getting larger offices, with better expertise. The goal of the message to get the kind of change in place is something we support. However, it is important that such development is based on good dialogue between municipalities and countries, in order to ensure mutual trust and a service provision that is best suited to local conditions. Of course, digitisation can help in the process. It will give the offices even more freedom to focus on employment services and not least to operate out-of-office activities. In order for Nav to focus more on employment services, we need to give them a slightly larger room to work with different actors. Cooperation with local business is crucial. It is also important to have good cooperation with the school, and one must also be able to hire and use external action organisers, as we have good experience with, to help with clarification and follow-up tests. Nav cannot exist in a bubble, and one cannot expect even a large office to be able to do all the tasks on its own. Knowledge built up by action organisers over many years is valuable to Nav, and they should also have robust framework conditions in the future. Greater freedom for Nav offices to work with other actors, action organisers, freedom to provide services tailored to young people and local conditions – that’s good. We need an authoritative hub of expertise that takes time for its users. Message is a long way to prepare for exactly that. It's positive. I would also like to say that the committee's work has put in place a number of useful and good clarifications, both in the form of an annotation and in the form of a proposal. The fact that there is so much agreement in the committee, and also so much agreement in the hearing round that was in front, I think we're at least thinking right. Finally, I would like to say that the Left naturally supports the proposals we are putting forward, but that we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox And after good dialogue with my colleague in the Christian People's Party, I have realized that they too will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e464	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e469	I would like to thank the representative, Rotevatn, for a reflected article. The representative was also partly concerned with how much work we as a society are going to impose on Nav to do for the size of unemployment, the fact that we see that there are an increasing number of social welfare recipients here in Norway, etc. The representative mentioned the importance of the oil price for employment. We can discuss – I will not discuss it now – in what way you can meet it, but it is a reality that the oil price has fallen. At the same time, this has led to a weakness in the crown, and interest rates in Norway are very low. Does the representative agree with me that it is particularly worrying that we do not see any significant innovation in jobs in the rest of the world either, when the framework conditions actually facilitate the rest of the business in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e476	I would like to agree that it is'sympathetic', but I do not agree with the whole description of reality. But it is a reality that the employment rate in Norway has been falling for many years. Since 2009, he has been falling. We're now at a level where he's lower than in Sweden, which we've long seen as a country with high unemployment, etc. So it's clear that here's the big challenge. When it comes to the first representative, how much Nav should do, if Nav can do anything, I think we should be open that there are other actors than Nav that can do such a good job when it comes to getting people to work, and that the public should also be involved in ending their work. A good example of this is an organisation like Caritas, which is unlikely to be good at getting workers who lose their jobs, go to a new job, or an action like JobbX, which is good at giving young people opportunities to get better at looking for jobs, writing CVs, etc. So no, I don't think Nav is the whole answer, it's a larger range of actors who luckily participate and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e483	Once again, we get a lot of good words about more people working. It is striking that someone does not look at what has worked, and what has worked less well in the time that has gone on. Knowledge-based studies have been provided to demonstrate these conditions, which show that in a number of major offices it works worse because the overview is too small, the knowledge of the labour market is too weak – one needs to have the local overview to help connect those who need a job with those who have work to offer. But my question is to the Roman Numeral Decision on the State Manning Guarantee, where the representative of the Christian People's Party said that in good local dialogue it was that there had to be a local consent. Can the representative of the Left agree with the understanding of what is contained in the Roman Numeral Decision? It would be essential for the Centre Party to support Decision II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e490	I don't think that the larger Nav office in any case will be the salivating. This is based on local assessments, local conditions, as is the case, for example, with the issue of municipal convergence. Now we have some examples of municipalities that have found together, that have merged Nav offices, and that have good results. I even come from a country that's relatively piggy, so to speak, with a lot of small offices, and many of them also do a very good job. That is precisely why I believe that the Romantic decision to which Lundtigen refers is important, because it is clear that there must be a good dialogue here with the municipalities as partners. I'm not going to stand here and tell you how that dialogue is going to happen, how the whole decision-making process is going to go, but I can't easily imagine that a person should run and join an office where there's a lot of local resistance to it. That'll probably give you bad results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e495	The representative Rotevatn says that Norwegian employment is changing dramatically. I share that view. Not since I started working full-time in 1982, I have seen that the situation of power in the labour force is as shifty as it is now – and more have become unemployed workers. Rotevatn believes that last year's changes to the work environment law, where we, among other things, easier access to temporary additions, help Nav get more people to work? And where do we find the main gravity of those additions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e500	I think it's a little too early to conclude with the results of a change in the law that was made last year. We have some indications, and then you can ask yourself how much weight you want to put on them. For example, in an investigation among Works' members, mostly small businesses, I believe 70 pst. said they wouldn't have done the additions they had now, if they hadn't had what they had now received, for temporary addition. Now you don't necessarily take it too well, but it's an indication that some people have benefited greatly from it to get people to work. So I want to take a great deal of distance from this notion that is constantly being used: 'loose workers'. I meet self-employed people in Norway who feel that they are called freelancers on TV by national politicians, and they actually get angry. Nor do I agree that the Norwegian working life is a bit implicitly worse than anything. On the contrary: Norwegian workers enjoy more at work, feel that they have an influence on their own working day, are in work, have good health – so I don't think we should measure the picture as black as the representative from SV here does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e507	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e515	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for working on a matter where the disagreement may be greater in action than in words – and a matter that is important to absolutely everyone in this country at different times in life. Although a life situation may be difficult, the welfare meeting shall be a good one. That's why I want to start by talking about the Nav governance principles. It is a problem for the public sector as a whole that we do not have governance models that are adapted to the Norwegian model, but rather have imported governance principles, management philosophies and mindsets that are adapted to entirely different situations, businesses and businesses. We need more governance principles based on cooperation, co-determination, dialogue and trust. But we see that the welfare services, which have a completely different purpose in another business, are more controlled by control, reporting, competition and individual target management. It looks like government, it looks like Nav, and it's giving a clear consultancy press throughout the entire floor. In my view, it also prevents professional development, flexibility and discretion. Therefore, I wish there was the will to remove the heavy boom that prevents change. It is strange to talk about authoritative Nav offices without taking a real settlement with this stuff of thought. It is difficult to put users' needs at the centre when you need to control and satisfy measurement cards, and it is difficult to find flexible solutions when counting employees. Nevertheless, Nav employees do a formidable job every day. But I wish that the working day of the employees was much more marked by trust and professional freedom. Today, I would like to encourage the Council of State to stop the use of consultants and to ask the elected trustees. Then the answers will be better and the solutions will be more accurate. The Socialist Left believes that we need to make a political settlement with market thinking across the public sector, as in Nav. I see that there are signs of a more consistent practice and governance. It may be positive for both quality and non-discrimination, but I would warn against a development in which we treat different people very much, because then we don't see the individual. That's what I see in the message about how the obligation of activity is to be set up, and in the signal of sanctions and reactions. Different performances are based on different life situations and challenges in the lives of individuals. The Socialist Left Party wants a close hub. We want a Nav that's present in the communities. We want a hub that has an overview of the labour market, which has close dialogue and cooperation with business, and which can thus help the individual in life and the life situation it is in. This is why, in the course of the Nav message, we have chosen to focus on solutions that strengthen local offices – where resources are drawn in that direction, and where we want freedom of professionalism and greater freedom with regard to measures and the help register on which employees are located. We want employees who have the space to see the individual, because it's crucial to be able to provide people with the right help at the right time. It is particularly important to help vulnerable groups, and it is particularly important to help young people early. The Socialist Left believes that one of the most important things we can do is to make sure that young people get into meaningful activity early, that they get into work, and that they get more skills. Then the race must be so far that it's actually something you can go further into work with, and not broken up and divided. People must complete it to be qualified. That is why we are in favour of reinforced youth work, and we are in favour of enhanced action by Nav on the part of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e534	Should the representative address the proposals that SV is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e539	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e544	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e551	One of the points about the changes in Nav that we are doing today by Stortinget is to give increased local freedom to the individual Nav office. It is not a question of municipal structure, it is not a question of a guarantee office, but it is a question of strengthening the competence of the workers in the labour market, direct contact with the local business community and empowering them to use local discretion. This has to be filled in with concrete content that gives the Nav offices that have to have local discretion an opportunity to use it for practical purposes. One of the grips of the government and the Right and the Advance Party is in practice doubling the disposal power of Nav to 100 million. kr. Is it then that SV, who notes that it may be reasonable to have local freedom in the Nav offices, agrees that the large increase we have in the Nav offices is enough? Is it too high, or is it too low after SV's vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e556	There is no doubt that we share the vision of more freedom. The question is what you add to the terms. It is only demanding to point to redisposal as an opportunity at a time when the cheese needs to be used and the efficiency joke is hanging over the floor, because then it is not obvious that the money will be spent in the way you want. I believe one of the problems is that there is a double communication – that, on the one hand, it is said to have greater professional freedom and authority locally, without actually taking a real settlement with the governance models, while at the same time saying that one should have more consistent practice for reactions and for the activity obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e561	One of the major challenges of the Nav reform is that many young people have not recovered from working life or from working life at all. One of the measures taken by the government in decisions taken under the Labour Environment Act and now, followed up in the budget, concerns the obligation of activity of young social assistance recipients. All experience shows that in the municipalities that have done so, it has resulted in clients being seen, they gain an increased understanding and value even by contributing to the community. They get up in the morning, they contribute, and many of them are now in education and regular work. We can see that some municipalities are good at this before the law is passed, but most people have not started it. That's why lawmaking is a point. Why, then, is it that, despite Nav's youth guarantees that have not worked as well in practice, SV will deprive young people of the opportunity to get into work, by voting against the obligation of activity for social welfare beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e566	I can assure Right that SV is at the forefront of the fight for meaningful activity for youth. That is why we want an enhanced youth guarantee for all under 25 years of age, which should give entitlement to qualification, work and activity within three months. That's what we're working for. What we don't agree with is a blind duty to activity. It is quite simply that today you have the opportunity to make demands for activity, but you have no obligation to do so. We have to remember that social assistance is the benefit that you have the opportunity to receive when you're so trembling on your hand that you can't even fill out a form. That's that performance. Then I think you have to, as part of the authority, as part of the freedom you want to give the Nav offices, also give the professional opportunity to assess: what is right in your situation? What is the right activity for you? In this way, young people are helped to get into activity, but first they have to learn to stand upright.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e577	First, I am pleased that, unlike the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party supports the government that youth outside the labour market should be a priority target group for Nav. But if we're going to be able to get people out of work, we also need jobs to offer. The representative Bergstø creates no jobs, so far as not signed either. Nobody in this room creates jobs, it's the business that does. So my question to the Socialist Left Party is: What concrete measures does the Left Party have to strengthen Norwegian private business and thus enable them to create more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e582	There are workers who create the values of this society, and it is therefore important to facilitate policy-making through more jobs and business start-ups. That is why we do not support the government's line of passive, business-neutral policy. We want an active industrial policy. That is why we are strengthening the regional funds for the counties. That is why we are strengthening food production in this country. That is why we are strengthening renewable energy because we see a need to turn funds and bets into renewables. That's why we want to build the country and use the free hands we have today to have people in work. Then we have to use state resources and muscles to keep the wheels going and rust up where it's needed, instead of living with people living in passivity, as the government is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e593	The government's goal is to get more people to work and less to social security. Well-functioning labour and welfare management is important if we are to achieve that objective. More people are going back to work and fewer young people are going to fall outside. To achieve this, I will raise three main tracks for Nav in the future: Firstly, Nav is going to be more labour-oriented, i.e. a hub that knows the needs of jobseekers and employers, which are closer to local business and which is better able to match the available hands with job vacancies. Hubs shall be closer to the users and start early on job-oriented follow-up, motivation for job-search and rapid transition to work or education. Several young people must go from passiveness to activity and avoid long periods of leave. A new youth initiative shall provide a job-oriented offer to jobseekers under 30 years of age who, at eight weeks’ leave, are not in work, education or other activity. Secondly, we need to develop more user-friendly services, i.e. services that are better adapted to individual needs. Nav serves 2.8 million users each year. Norway’s largest Nav office is Nav.no. Several users expect the door to Nav to be at home, via the web or by contacting the contact phone. We see that self-service solutions are popular and are increasingly being used. This is why we suggest that more people get help via different network solutions, whether they are organized information or self-service solutions. The fact that more people get help via the web allows Nav employees to spend their time on those users who need follow-up to get to work. Users with more complex needs shall benefit from a greater share of the resources of the Nav Offices. Thirdly, we will give the Nav offices greater authority and freedom of action to adapt services to individual needs. Guides from the Nav offices have direct contact with users and are best placed to find good solutions for the individual. Therefore, we will have less management of activity and more focus on results. Nav shall be given a slightly greater opportunity to choose whether the clearing and follow-up services are to be purchased or executed under its own control. Increased local freedom should be introduced gradually, as experience is gained and as results of the use of the instrument are seen. Greater scope for action and less detailed governance require competence and knowledge of what works and how best to adapt the instruments to the individual user. Nav offices must have a sufficient professional environment to provide good services to users with varied and often complex needs for services. In the Communication, we have said that we want a stronger environment of competence. This can be done either by merging municipalities or through intermunicipal cooperation. However, this will be done by local agreement in the partnership with municipalities, as we will see later on several examples. I have submitted a message that is a clear response to many of the challenges Nav faces. I'm pleased with the excitement about the direction choices made for Nav. It will provide a good basis for their work in getting more people to work and less to social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e621	After listening to the debate here today, it may indicate that there is a majority in this Chamber who are opposed to the permanent transfer of work, VTA, to the municipalities. There was also strong opposition in the Stortinget hearing on the Nav message about that theme, including the from the affected, not only from the growing and relaying companies, but also from the representatives of the users – those concerned – the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired. When it appears that there is a majority in this Chamber against the transfer of VTA to the municipalities, will the council then reconsider the attempt and rather spend the money on something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e628	I have also registered resistance and uncertainty. It's natural that many people are nervous, because you know what you have, and not what you get. I am concerned that we should organise services in the way that serves the users best, and that's why we now want to try it out and see if it can be better for the users that the municipalities take over this. In that case, it'll be a try. The recent rights committee has also assessed the rights of those with developmental disabilities and has recently recommended that municipalities be given responsibility for the provision of organised work for those with developmental disabilities and others with a need to do so. My starting point is that we're going to put the services where they're best done, for the sake of those who're going to receive them, and I think that an attempt could give us valuable knowledge and information about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e635	In Norway, we have a law that prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities. I wonder whether the Council of State has assessed whether planning for a labour market policy to apply to all groups, except those with a mental retardation, could simply be contrary to the anti-discrimination ban. If she has not evaluated it, will she take the initiative to get such an assessment on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e640	There is no doubt that the user group we are now talking about has the same right to labour market measures as everyone else. They shall also be brought into line with the needs and assumptions they have. We believe that our proposal to have an experiment is within the scope of law and regulation. I think it makes sense that we are now gaining experience in this experiment, that we can see how municipalities can see the offer to this user group in connection with other services to the same group in the municipalities. The feedback I have received from the training companies is that they are also happy that we have now chosen to arrange it this way, and I think again that the experience will be useful in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e645	During this period, we have managed to make a promise for people with disabilities, including: with several action sites, and I would also like to say that the simplification of the response system makes it easier to switch if one is actually on a slightly wrong track in the response system. But as I said in my post, my concern about the Nav reform is that it skips too much to just results, and that then there will be less focus on the weakest groups, so that they – instead of putting full pressure on not to give up – end up on the disability statistics. Can the Council of State try to calm me down and tell me a little about how she wants the Nav, the reintroduction companies and others to ensure that the weakest group, the most remote from work, is not given up, but that there is full pressure on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e652	I believe that what we are doing now, on the contrary, strengthens the rights and opportunities of those who are most remote, by shifting away from a very rigid system of measures to a more flexible system, where Nav employees need less to distinguish between the types of measures they have and at price, but can rather concentrate more on what will help the individual beneficiary. There are examples of people taking dozens of measures with no effect at all, with all the disadvantages it has for the individual. So I believe that what the Storting decides today, and hopefully also joins the budget, is a looser hub management, bigger bag posts and less control, and that it will also improve the follow-up of users significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e659	Project 2 of the modernisation of ICT in the Labour and Welfare Act was thoroughly addressed in the Control Committee through two consultations as well as in the Labour and Social Committee. When the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment dealt with this matter, it was a unanimous committee that said: ‘The Ministry must therefore ensure that the Nav offices in each municipality have the necessary time and staff to assist people who need practical assistance in completing applications in order to obtain their legitimate benefits.’ As I understood the Council of State, she is still in favour of that quote, but I want a confirmation of it. Second, the Council of State said it was important to have local consensus in the partnership between the municipality and the state. It was quite clear to me when it was about the location of Nav offices, because it's absolutely essential; it's also a municipality that has its shares in it. My second question is related to Roman Numeral Decision II in the vote, where it is stated in connection with the lifting of the manning guarantee that it must be ‘locally anchored and based on good local dialogue’. Does the Council of State agree that it is also based on local consensus?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e673	It is tempting to answer yes to both of those questions. It is clear that with what we are doing now – with the message and decisions taken – we will release considerable time for employees to be able to help those users who need help. We can sit in the living room and fill out our forms online and not burden employees with our attendance, and that means that employees can help those who need help in a better way. The organisation and location of the Nav offices are anchored in the partnership. When the Nav offices in Lillehammer and Gausdal joined forces now, it was on the basis of decisions by two local governments, led by two courageous rapporteurs, who also from the Workers' Party, who agreed to think: How should we best organise the offer to our inhabitants in our region? Then they chose to merge the offices, which include: involve significantly greater access to professionals in the new office than in the old ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e680	I read with great interest in VG today that Nav is going to start going home to people and visiting people in the workplace, and it's exciting to hear some thoughts around. It will provide a great deal of freedom and opportunity to follow up the individual in a very close and precise manner, while at the same time there are some challenges in terms of the security and security situation. We know that Nav employees are among the victims of violence and threats in the workplace, that there are alarms in the Nav offices for a reason, and that working alone in many industries can be challenging. Therefore, I wonder what thoughts the Council of State has about the safety of employees when they are going to visit people at home. I also wonder which user group you think about, and how predictability will be for the user around when they can get a visit from Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e694	The Nav employees are likely to remain mainly in the office, but by establishing more digital/technological solutions and opportunities, this means that Nav employees will have the opportunity to log in elsewhere than in their own office. This could be done, for example, by: persons who have broken their legs, old ladies who do not get to the office, persons with social distress, or there may be something else that makes you need to leave. When I was a social worker here in Oslo, we worked a lot with employees' safety. Many of the employees are exposed to adverse events, and we were concerned about the safety of employees. On 1 January 2017, a new regulation will be put in place, including: clarifying the responsibilities of the employer for their employees, that assessments should be made more in advance. Overall, however, the Mobile Nav Office will increase the availability of services for its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e703	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e710	The Nav reform together with the pension reform is the largest reform implemented in Norway in recent times. After a demanding start, Nav has slowly, but surely evolved to become something the users are very satisfied with. It shows user surveys, even if they are rarely brought forward when referring to Nav. 2.8 million users, 3 million applicants, 19 million calls, 20 million letters annually make the size and complexity of the organisation visible. There is no doubt that the Nav establishment has been demanding, and frequent evaluations have made the challenge visible. There is reason to commend the employees who have been in the storm and done the job, while the organisation has found its form. The matter we are dealing with today shows that we are not finished. There's a lot of consensus that we need to strengthen the Nav workline. Work is important for individuals and for society, but with the highest unemployment rate of 25 years, Nav has more tasks than is acceptable. With a government that does not provide sufficient means to cope with the situation, but at the same time reinforces the requirement for activity to receive benefits, employees are in an unsustainable situation. Strong growth in job vacancies is also due to the weakness of the means of follow-up. Mr Heggelund spoke about the heritage of the Red-Greens. The blue-blue heritage becomes record-high availability while the oil money usage is record-breaking. The main message says that the goal of the message is to get more from social security to work. It should be equally important to get the unemployed to work. Although there is broad agreement on the challenge described in the Communication, there is a need for more measures to adjust the direction. These are proposals that are unacceptable. The proposal to separate responsibility for organised work from other labour market measures remains poor and unacceptable. Local authorities' responsibilities for labour market measures were transferred to the State in 1960, and there is no evidence of any innovation in relocating them. The test should be placed in a drawer and no longer used. An attempt that should not be put into the drawer is the more individual job support scheme. I am pleased that both the Christian People's Party and the Left support that proposal today, because it is a system that works. I find it strange that the Right and the Advance Party did not support that proposal when we discussed the matter in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e725	I shall acknowledge this immediately: the Right and the Advance Party will support proposal No. 4 today. There's a day many have been waiting for a long time. Ever since the Right and Advance Party made a fairly good choice in 2013 and until today, we have seen that the positive development Nav has had to continue even more. Today, the government fully endorses the idea of making Nav more user-oriented, more work-oriented and giving individual Nav offices more authority. I have been visiting a number of Nav offices, departments and Nav conferences throughout this booming period – as the chairman of this great committee. I have met employees, trust-elected and dozens of companies in the work and inclusion field – from Unico in Haugesund and Asker Produkt to Varodd in Kristiansand. I have marked a genuine enthusiasm for government policy, which is about work being the most important – and often the best medicine – that when you meet Nav for the first time as unemployed or sick, the focus is on how to get back to work, or how to find a new job, and not start meetings with the rights and support schemes. Here we still have a way to go, which will be easier for Nav with the new tools that the government has given and that it will offer through the Nav message today. There may be increased access to temporary employment, more action places, more actors to choose from to help people out of work, more opportunities for Nav itself to help people in working life, a new and more flexible day-care code, the obligation of activity for young people receiving social assistance, an education policy that now ensures that young people in secondary school cannot or will not go to Nav. In addition, the government now removes the red-green rule where young people entitled to secondary education must complete within five years of the start of the training. If they do not complete within that period, they must wait until they have reached the age of 25 before they are eligible for further education. There has been a serious challenge for Nav and too many young people in Norway. Few will now have to go to Nav, and others will complete the education. I want to take the opportunity to thank the Nav employees, who have inspired us. Thanks to the work and inclusion industry, which understands its social mission, and thanks to the social partners, who through good dialogue have contributed to a stronger and even better hub! These are the ones who have convinced us in the Right that despite past achievements, you are on your own, and – reinforced by a number of measures by the government, such as increased powers of the Nav offices and more responsibility for labour market action itself – help to achieve the government's objectives. I also thank the government and our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which now ensure broad agreement that work for everyone is job no. one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e742	I would like to start by thanking Mr Heggelund for a thorough and good job on an important matter. The attitude and debate may have already shown that some parties are in early election mode. In particular this applies to the Workers' Party, such as: by the fact that they are now finally interested in a proper review of Nav, even though they were not when they were in government. The starting point for Nav is the welfare system introduced in 2006 after dealing with several major issues in the Stortinget. Several reports have been written on Nav, yes more with concrete suggestions for improvements. Already in May 2008, the Rokkansenter wrote a report. Several master’s assignments in sociology published in 2008 also deal with Nav’s organisation and functions. The Labour Research Institute wrote a report in 2009 and the Kaasa Committee issued a NOU report in 2011. In other words, it has not been missing on warning lights, and everyone has flashed and flashed, but the Workers' Party put in government and did nothing. Now, fortunately, we have a Right Party government that both can and will review Nav. First, former Councillor Eriksson put down the Vågeng committee, and the director of the sample, now the Nav Director, is well-informed to implement many of the report's recommendations. The aim is to red tape the network of users to help more people from social security to work. I believe that unemployment benefits are also included in it, according to what the representative of the Workers' Party said earlier. Online work sharing is important for the Right and Advance Party. Work is important for individuals, and employment is important for society. Today, a constructive majority of this room gathers on important steps to make Nav more user-oriented, more efficient and better able to get more people to work. Then it's sad to see how the Workers' Party deliberately chooses to invest in mediocre electoral campaign rhetoric. What are actually work options? There are few or no answers to that. The Labour Party option is only to criticise the actions agreed by the majority, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e759	I would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. There is considerable work to get all the threads to hang together and become a document that can be discussed. Nav in a new time – for work and activity is really about you and me and our meeting with the public, for everyone – at least a family friend or others – will sooner or later meet Nav in some way. It's less about where the office is, and more about what people are in the offices. It's about discretion, authority, but it's also about giving people the opportunity to live their own lives. It's about professional case handlers talking to people and not people. In short, man must be in the center and not organizations. Good case handlers cannot be adopted by Stortinget. Good case handlers are given when organisations are well-functioning and people thrive at work. It is therefore important to further develop a good organisational culture in Nav, where employees experience that they are part of a community. This can be done primarily by recruiting good staff with a high level of competence. Many Nav employees today have a high level of competence. It is also important to be able to recruit people with cultural and language skills who can meet immigrants who are going to work and integrate into Norwegian society. There is often talk of a door entering the Nav for the individual, but there must also be a door out. As a result, compulsory activity is so important because it gives young people the opportunity to get started. Nav must work more closely against business and establish good contacts in order to gain labour market skills and increase employment. Business must have a door to Nav. Meetings between the employer and the employee are essential to getting people to work. When the government is clearly giving priority to getting more people to work, it also means that those who are currently out of the labour market are given the opportunity to participate. This applies both to young people who fall out of school and to those who are unable to work full-time but need an organized work situation. Many older workers fall out of the labour market even if they want to work. It's tragic for the individual, but also for our society. We need their competence and not least their long experience. So what should Nav be? The most important thing for those who meet Nav is a case handler who knows their case, listens and has the means to improve their quality of life. For many, it's about work, for others, about education. We in politics are often engaged in organisations. They're not the ones who meet Nav. They are occupied by the person and the first meeting with the case handler. A Nav in a new era should therefore be about how to create a good organisational culture that supports the ability of individuals to get into work or activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e790	The representative Bergstø was very wise, to which I subscribe, about his view of a close hub and authority of people. I've met a lot of great additions that do a great job in the welfare state front section. These servants and women tend to have our respect first and foremost, and to be listened to. I want to focus on a theme that we need to be more aware of now that the strength of our working life is changing. I am pleased that action places should be replaced by counting those who come to work. At the same time, we have to assume that the force ratio does not mean that many actions discuss how to do it, whether to include people in work training or not, because they do not have working party relationships. I feel that trade unionism will have people out in practice places now when there is increasing unemployment, and people who are sick or have been out of work for a long time need to get work training in different measures. But we have to put down some fences between work training and pushing them out firmly. There is a cry for warning about this from trustees both in the retail trade and before the hotel and restaurant. In addition, during our hotel strike in Oslo, we experienced that several companies were able to keep up and operate with the help of people on work training, who came into a terrible mess between a company they hoped to get a steady job in, and their strikers. It's some kind of strike break. I would like us to have a clearer enforcement of the guidelines to prevent such competitive and unfortunate effects of work training, in order to avoid abuse of good practices and to set up groups against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e798	Otherwise, it's probably like that in this room that the view of the welfare state is one of the many themes that we disagree on. I would like to mention as a ‘profit in well-being’ as a dividing line. What I'm dealing with here is also one example of a side of profit in well-being if we don't notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e801	This Communication follows up the A Nav report with opportunities presented by the Committee of Experts last year. The report pointed out that Nav needs to focus more on people rather than systems. It was pointed out that the individual user needs to be better followed up, and that local Nav staff need to be given greater freedom and authority – and the Nav A needs to get bigger, more focussed on work. The present notification gives a clear and clear direction for Nav in the future. Fewer young people will fall outside. Nav should work more closely against employers to get more people to work. Quality and performance shall be given greater emphasis than the counting of activities carried out. Fewer and more authoritative Nav offices with a wider range of competences and early efforts are sought, with the need to strengthen the links between Nav, educational institutions and health services. There are good examples of educational institutions strengthening the links with Nav. At Jessheim secondary school in Akershus, they're concerned with early work. Nav's got his own office at the school, close to a health sister and a counselor. Several students say that this has prevented them from dropping out. It's about getting in early enough, so you get your youth to finish high school and then go on, for example. professional letter. The notification refers to the importance of requiring activity upon receipt of benefits and that it discourages inactivity. The obligation of activity for beneficiaries of social assistance will contribute to giving more young people faith in the future. Those who have health to do work have a good thing to do. The aim is not to take those who depend on support, but to help them back to work, possibly in education, and give them self-respect and faith in the future. Most people who receive social assistance have experienced obstacles in life that have made it difficult to get to work, or they have fallen out of school. But in the cold water of good social benefits, more people have health to be in some activity or work something. I'm concerned that we don't have to talk and act in such a way that social welfare recipients perceive themselves as inferior and a burden on society. At the same time, it is important to make demands on everyone in a society. This is a hairy balance – for the main reason for making demands is to build people up. Many of the beneficiaries of social assistance have been misplaced in the labour market without wishing to do so. They must be helped back and have faith in the future again. Where an activity obligation has been introduced, good results can be referred to. Young people have come to believe that they are doing well, and especially young recipients of social assistance. It is important that the Nav offices have greater confidence, with more freedom and authority to initiate effective action. Some Nav offices have been pilots, have done more in their own direction and have succeeded in getting more people to work. In the 2017 government budget, the government proposes to redeploy some of the means of action so that Nav can have more room for action, with more room for action under its own direction. With this grip, Nav can try out new measures — more tailor-made — and thus make the a-larger in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e816	I heard with interest the rapporteur's presentation of the history relating to the development of the welfare state. It fits well into the current Right Strategy where one tries to present it as if there is no particular political disagreement about anything at the moment. I would recommend the representative Heggelund to read his party trap, Francis Sejersted's book, which he was invited to write in connection with the fact that it was a hundred years since Norway and Sweden had divorced layers. He calls his entire work the age of Social Democracy. The conservative Right – for whom Francis Sejersted was a good representative – has been a brake block in the development of the welfare society. But it's the political thing that's interesting now, where you can see that there's another direction that's won in the Right – very well described in Christian Borch's book, Banality's tyranny, which came out for a short time. There he shows how the economic, liberal forces have now gained greater influence in the Right at the expense of conservatism. That's what we see when we see with the Right in government that the Progress Party is attacking the Norwegian model – and they say they will. They are attacked by the economic model through greater differences in tax distribution policy, attacks on tripartite cooperation, where the parties play a less central role in social development than before, and not least in welfare policy. It may also well fit into Right rhetoric for the time being that, earlier this week, for a few days ago, in an article in the VG, the Council of State allowed itself to write that the Workers' Party is opposed to the obligation of activity — a duty of activity that is successfully supported by a number of examples, all of which are examples because we actually implemented access to the obligation of activity. Since claiming that those who have imposed an activity obligation are opposed to it, it is quite daring. It is probably part of the curiousness of the fact that the Council of State refers to social assistance as a social security. It's in itself pretty interesting. No, the historical judgment of this government seems to be: a government that took over Europe’s lowest unemployment but that led the country at a time when it increased to dramatic heights, with a significant increase in the number of social welfare recipients — a much greater difference in people. It's the judgment of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e830	Unfortunately, there is no transparent attitude that we are now discussing. It's not clarifying either. I ask people to read the water, so one can assess whether what I'm now saying is reasonably comprehensive. It is also too weak in knowledge-based system criticism. It's too weak why we've come to where we are now, while most people have said that we should be in a completely different place. One has to go into history and learn from history to get to the right place in the future. It is also, in my opinion, really more disagreement about the way forward for Nav than what emerges. A lot is said about giving responsibility and authority and manning to the first line, but it is followed up in very unclear terms. Unfortunately, the government is also centralizing in this area. An emptying smaller local offices for tasks, and the municipalities get into dilemmas: what in the world is one going to do? The centre party, together with the SV proposals, has no. 15 and 16, where we give some clear guidance on how to change the resource allocation. If those proposals were to fall, the Central Party would vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox In the case of the Roman number decisions, we vote against I, and we vote in subsidiary favour of III. As far as II is concerned, we can subsidiaryly vote in favour of it when the Council of State has now said that there should be a local consensus at that point, and the Council of State referred to what had happened at Lillehammer and in Gausdal, that there was a municipal ruling number on the basis of that process. I understood that this was also true of the standard of manning. If I've misinterpreted the Council of State at this point right now, I'm asking the Council of State to clarify it. So, as far as II is concerned, I understand the Council of State that there should be a local consensus, that there should be a municipal ruling number that goes for it. With that clarification, the Central Party supports that proposal subsidiaryly. Otherwise there are a number of concrete points that have been addressed in the setting, where the centre party has clarified its positions. This applies, for example: use of recruitment agencies, where the centre party opposes a central obligation to extend existing cooperation with the personnel industry. This applies, for example: municipal responsibility for permanent work, VTA. It is labour market policy, and it is a national responsibility, not a municipal responsibility. We also say that we disagree with the Workers' Party's proposal on regulations and guidelines to draw up the limits on what Nav seams should be able to do in their own direction, and what work and inclusion companies should do. We do not want such clarification, because there are different conditions around the country, and so conditions will be different, and there will be different measures that are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e843	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then made clear the views of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e848	I think this is a very interesting debate. I will link some comments to some of the comments. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, from the Workers' Party, says that there has been a strategy for the Right to look as closely as possible to the Workers' Party. That would be a very bad strategy. I mean, who would look like the Workers' Party? How high are you going to think about yourself and your own party? We are in this room today and are discussing how to develop Nav because of, among other things. the faulty grip of the red-green government. Then he talks about the progress of the economic liberals in the Right. Yes, then my question is, as we discuss the Nav message: How on earth does he see the progress of economic liberals in the Right in the Nav message, where we discuss how users can get better follow-up, and how Nav employees can get more flexibility to do the job they are set to do? What does this have to do with the matter? Not only is it wrong – the right is a conservative party – but it has nothing to do with what we are discussing today. But it's the Labour Party's strategy, to discuss anything but the matter, and to give its false history description of the development of welfare in Norway. Then the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, repeats his error from when I debated this topic with him on the New Day eighteen earlier this week, about duty of activity. We also believe that people should be treated individually, but we believe that this should be an offer that applies in all municipalities. That is what the debate is about, and that is what the Labour Party and the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, are against. Then I want you to listen carefully – between the lines – to what was said by the representative Lundtigen. He's using the district policy rhetoric we're so used to hearing from the Center Party, and he calls this centralization policy. I want everyone who hears that post, and who is talking about centralization in this context, to be aware that there is no sympathy for the users in such rhetoric. There are only questions about how to try to tackle the policy of the majority in a way that is considered reliable to the Central Party nuclear electors. This is not about centralisation, it's about how Nav can make the best use of its resources to help as many users as possible. That's what we should be discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e861	Work and well-being are two aspects of the same matter. Labour and welfare policies are consistent. One must have health to be able to work, and one must have work to have good health. The majority of the Committee notes that one is concerned with the increasing proportion of young people on health-related issues and that the importance of early efforts and close follow-up of young Nav users cannot be stressed enough. That's the right focus. One reason young people fall out of work is that they fall out of the education cycle. In the follow-up to young people who are not in work or education, close Nav offices with knowledge of the community are important. Centralisation of the Nav office, to which this Storing message refers, is not a solution. As SV and the Center Party write in a note, the price of a larger Nav office is that Nav is away from youth life, from the local environment where both family, networks, labour market, schools and businesses exist. Then we get an even weaker hub, and a hub without local anchoring and proximity will not be able to do the job, especially to young people. The size of the population is addressed by the National Audit Office’s investigation into the follow-up to youth outside of training and work. The report strongly criticises the fact that assistance and action schemes for young people who, for various reasons, interrupt the training cycle are not good enough and, in particular, the follow-up of young people with complex needs fails. Youth goes for longer periods without being followed up, cork of the follow-up service to the county or Nav office. Half of those who stop continuing training do not receive a Nav activity plan. When we in the Storting discuss introducing an activity obligation, it makes no sense, because it has no value to introduce a general, rigid duty of activity if the youth labors with an untreated severe depression. Activity requirements need to be individually assessed, and not least make sure that everyone has a schedule of activities. Psychiatric disorders are today one of the main causes of lost years of work and costs of disability and sick leave. In comments in the option, both the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV point out that Nav must strengthen the offer for these people. In proposal No 4 in the form of proposals, and I appeared to hear in the debate that there will be a number of them. It's just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e878	There is something I feel the need to comment. Stefan Heggelund says that the Workers' Party is discussing anything other than the matter. I cannot understand that, so I would like to invite you to a review of the minutes from this meeting in my office when the minutes are available. So we can sort out what's relevant, and what's not. It is also said by the Progress Party that the Workers' Party was in government and did nothing. Well, we introduced Nav. It was a pretty big job. And we weren't interested in evaluating Nav while we were in government? No well – we started a lot of follow-up evaluations, also research-based, and we never gave the impression that Nav was something we did with a trick. It is a continuous process, both in terms of critical views on legislation and working methods, because it must be constantly adapted to the needs of users and it must be constantly adapted to the local labour market and the situation there. We have been involved in promoting 14 proposals here today. We just criticize, it was said. No, we've said that we agree mostly, but that's something we're opposed to. Then we have corrected a warning index finger – and this I think the position should take the time to listen to – with just taking the same decisions again without asking what made things different from what you thought. An example of things that just happen is that we signaled here in Stortinget that we were expecting a growth in the number of miscarriages after the introduction of redundancy pay. It did not come, and we were very amazed – until the first four-year period was over, and a dam broke. It is obvious that something has not quite worked as the Storting intention was. This message states that labour market measures were previously reserved for defined target groups but were made available to all with redundancy payments. But then it says – and I wonder if only I have responded to it – that four categories of users have subsequently been introduced that determine which job-oriented actions can be given to individuals: standard efforts, situation-specific efforts, in particular adapted efforts and long-term tailored efforts. It really reminds me of a rule, but we haven't adopted it. We have said that all measures should be available to all, both in terms of redundancy payments and qualification programmes. We have also said that education is an important measure, because it is the only thing that helps, and we see that the use of education at some Nav offices has been restricted. And where does that constraint come from? It doesn't come from us. So it's important that one follows what kind of mechanisms it really is that works internally, and that makes us not going where we want to go. Then my time starts to get closer to the end, so I can't go into the individual suggestions. But finally, I just want to say, there's a lot of positive going on in Nav. Do not let this debate overshadow it. There's a lot of great, dedicated employees who get results, and we shouldn't forget them either. We'll learn from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e891	I can continue in the previous speech with the fact that there is a lot of good work done in Nav. There are many skilled employees, but there are exactly the same employees who have pointed out several of the challenges we are now addressing in the communication, including: that Nav has become, and is, far too bureaucratic, and that too much is being measured on activity, and not on results. We have confidence and confidence in the Nav employees – that they are best suited to see what should help the individual. That's why we also move power and authority to them. It's been an interesting debate. Unfortunately, it was somewhat predictable because the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left continue to defend the established. Yes, it was on their guard that Nav was introduced, and when one introduces such a big reform as the Nav reform, it is a matter of course that not everything is always on the rails. But then it doesn't just help to ask for investigations. It is also necessary to demonstrate the capacity to respond effectively to the challenges identified by the investigations. I am pleased that the Center Party took on self-criticism that the Red-Green Government did not do many wrongs when it came to Nav, and therefore I hope that we can see that the Center Party can join in on several of the measures we come with later today. There has also been a debate about duty of activity, and the representative Dag Terje Andersen was up with a story that is directly wrong. The undersigned was the case-rapporteur when we dealt with the entire work environment law, and thus also the obligation of activity, a few years ago. Then I can read from the Workers' Party's own comment when the Stortingen dealt with the matter: ‘These members consider that the government’s proposal for an activity obligation in all cases of social security benefits may be counterproductive in its intention: [[...]] So the Workers' Party has been against the obligation of activity. If the Workers' Party has now turned around, it may be happy, for in a few weeks' time the Storting will deal with a bill from the government to implement the decision by imposing an obligation to operate for them under 30 years, and we will also grant money to it in the State budget. But I think the Labour Party should be so honest that they would rather admit that they have turned around. It may be a pleasure, but in any case I am glad that we have a government that is ready that we want to have a duty of activity. We believe that making demands on people is positive, and it will also help to get people off leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e909	It's not about turning around, it's about seeing what's established -- what's what we have, and what kind of choices are we going to have to make now? That's the question. Then it's important that we dare to take the real road choices up in the light. I've tried to do that in my previous post, because one of the choices we need to make is the governance principles for our well-being – for the whole Nav. What should be the foundation, the ideology of the way management and management culture are practiced? There are also some choices in market alignment or governance on this issue. Without prejudice to those choices, slogans about both freedom and authority and who did yours and who did it are quite hollow. So I would say that there are traces of economic liberals in the Nav message, and there are traces of economic liberalism in Nav. We take a very good view of the tendering policy and also of its consequences, because we were told that tenders had to be submitted in order for the thousands of flowers to flourish, in order for diversity and quality to characterise offers and services. But what do we see? Yes, we see a monopoly. We see a centralization. We see that the small ideals and local actors remain as losers after Nav started bidding rounds for action organisers. And we see that a review made by the magazine Wellbeing very clearly points to that – how diversity disappears when market principles are strengthened. So it's clear that we see traces of the right librarians in the way Nav operates. Another example is the view of the use of the manning industry and its role in Nav. And I'm not saying that the Nav message adds up to instructing the Nav offices to cooperate with the crew industry, but it's a very clear call, and it's a very clear direction that it's desirable. Then I ask the question: is there an industry that is based on a loose relationship with the world of work, that is to lead people into work? No, of course it's not – not if fixed employment is a goal, not if it's a goal to have a working life and a employment service that works for people to get into working life with both legs located in it. This is important road choices. There are also road choices where we see traces of that even if we want well-being, freedom and authority mean quite different things for the right- and left-hand sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e918	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e923	A brief remark to the representative Heggelund: there will be a stronger and stronger contrast between centralisation and decentralisation, between the Right and the Center Party. Right doesn't dare to say that, but people experience it. The representative said the centre party has no sympathy for the users. I spoke from experience in large municipalities in Buskerud – from conversations with drug users. I spoke from my own experience in helping young people who do not have the full ability to work. I spoke from experience when it came to calling the Nav office and getting in touch. I spoke from experience in calling the call center, where it's going to be quick, and most of them shouldn't move on. That's why, based on the negative experiences, the Center Party is promoting suggestions that you should have more people locally who can talk to people, look them in the eye and do a good job from the start. That's the Center Party line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e929	Many documents and messages have been referred to in this debate. No one has mentioned the first message, which is perhaps among the best, namely the one that was written by today's president quite many years ago and with me as an adviser. The reason I took the floor was that Lundtigen asked me a specific question, which was about bundling, manning guarantee and local anchoring. There are two different issues. Merging requires decisions in local government, as was done in Lillehammer and Gausdal. The manning guarantee is within the authority of the Director. I can draw attention to page 74 of the Communication, which mentions this, where it says: ‘The abolition of the State manning guarantee in small NAV offices will facilitate the allocation of resources in individual counties to enable the building of stronger environments of competence. A suspension will not alter the obligations of the State of Labour and Welfare in the statutory local cooperation with each municipality of the NAV Office.’;» So you have a responsibility to make sure that all the people in the county have the services they need. I also see that the Roman Numeral Decision today reinforces the need to have good local dialogue in order to change the organisation, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e943	It is with great wonder that I hear that the representative Christoffersen is so clearly pleased that they introduced the Nav reform, but at the same time they did not take into account the reports that came in and showed that something was wrong. So they slept on their guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e948	For the sake of order – to Heggelund’s claim that I have said that the Right is trying to look like the Workers’ Party: that’s not what I said. I said that the Right has a strategy to try to erase the political differences. So to what he said about the topicality of liberalism in today's case – the black representative Kjersti Bergstø excellently. I can show that we address it in proposal No. 3 as regards privatisation and the outsourcing of the reintroduction service. The use of crew companies is addressed in proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox It is very relevant, and it is typical that some people want commercial operators to suck into the state register – instead of focusing on users’ needs for help. Then to the representative Wiborg. He says a lot strange, incredibly strange, like, for example. to say that we're not in a comment that the Right has written with other parties, that says we're going to bet on youth. If he reads the document, he sees that we say we should strengthen the Youth Guarantee, and not remove it. Our whole special note has a continuous focus on youth. It's a very special way to read big documents. It's not intellectually honest. I won't say more about it. But more precisely to what he said about duty of activity: I shall quote from Ot.prp. No 103 for 2008-2009 – by chance – I was the one who presented it as the Council of State. It says: «Conditions may be laid down for the award of financial benefits, including the performance of appropriate tasks in the municipality of residence by the beneficiary during the period of benefits [[...]] That's what's going on today. Because we thought that obligation of activity might be right for someone. And all of the examples that now come from municipalities that practice the obligation of activity with success, and that we support, are based on that decision, which is a result of the proposition we made. That's why it gets so amazing that someone allows themselves to claim that those who proposed to open up an activity obligation are opposed to an activity obligation. If the intention is to confuse people, it might seem, but if the purpose is to figure out what an actually disagrees and agrees on, it doesn't contribute to anything but confusion. I think that is very unfortunate for the political debate. When it comes to duty of activity, I'd like to say, "Welcome after." So we're for duty of activity for those who are right, and not for those for whom it's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e964	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e969	Just a few small comments on the Progress Party. The representative of the Vosskensen said that we boast of having introduced the Nav reform, but we did not take into account reports that showed that there were errors and deficiencies in it. It will be a little difficult to answer when you are not more specific about which reports, what measures, what they were not taken into account. Then I have a question – or more a comment – to Erlend Wiborg, which indicates that the Progress Party is far more on track with increased freedom of action and authority out to the local offices than we are, and refers to III. But III is, of course, the majority's rewriting of Workers' Party, Centre Party and SV's proposal No. 5, and then we go even further. I would like to encourage the representative Wiborg to read the letters of assignment, so maybe he'll get a surprise!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e976	We all know the story of how Nav came into existence, and no one can go through it in three minutes. But the story of how Nav came to be, we know. The story of how the Nav reform was implemented, we know. The Labour Party has to take responsibility, along with the Center Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, for why it turned out the way it did. The representative, Andersen, still shows that he hasn't got what we're discussing about the duty of activity. The representative Andersen and the Workers' Party opposes the obligation to engage in activity in all the municipalities of the country for social assistance recipients. That's what he's against. He has voted against it, and he is going to vote against it again. That is what we are discussing – not whether to have individual follow-up on this duty of activity. That's not the discussion. Everyone agrees. The question is whether there is something that should apply in all municipalities or not. Then he claims that the Workers' Party addresses different things with its proposals. Among other things, he believes that he addresses something with proposal No. 3, to «come back to the Storting with the results of the evaluation of the competitive outsourcing of labour market measures in the sheltered sector». No, the Labour Party does not address anything with that proposal because the government has already started the evaluation. It is also stated in the comments when we can expect this report to come to Stortinget. So there's nothing addressed from the Workers' Party in that proposal. Then it is said that the Workers' Party addresses the crew industry with its proposal. No, the Workers' Party does not address the world's business with the proposal on the manning industry. There is nothing in the notice that there should be a central requirement to this effect. Ergo, there's nothing addressed either. This is evident from the majority comments, which explain why we are voting against these proposals. The Labour Party also does not address anything when they say that we should ‘start work as soon as possible to identify the internal mechanisms in the Labour and Welfare Act that have slowed or hindered the expected implementation of the Nav reform’. But what does the Labour Party think we've been doing now? Why do they think we put this committee of experts down? Why do they think we have this Nav message? Nothing is addressed with that proposal. So we're talking about the party that had several former government councils that had to attend the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee because the balances of Nav were so high, and because the National Audit Board couldn't confirm Nav's accounts when the party crashed. So that they now stand here and present themselves that they are lying awake at night and are concerned about the evolution of Nav, occupying almost the limits of propriety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e991	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e996	It was the post – again – to the representative Dag Terje Andersen I reacted to. Yes, it is quite right that he referred to the 2008 proposal, as the Workers' Party opened up to introduce an activity obligation. That is what the Workers' Party is for. But we believe that the duty of activity should really be something, the general rule should be to have an activity obligation. I understand that it may be unpleasant, but I signed the quote from the Workers' Party's own comments when we discussed the matter two years ago. That is what the Labour Party wrote then – in so far as the very same debate we have had here today is about now saying that there is youth outside work to be prioritised. I quote concrete comments from the Workers' Party, and they then choose to leave the comments, as opposed to all the other parties, who believe that young people should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1010	Ingebjørg Amanda Vosskensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1015	If the representative of Christoffersen had heard after I had my main post, she would have known what reports I was aiming for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1020	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1026	After it had been called to vote, said Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1038	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11-14, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 15 and 16, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for the creation of the Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government requests the review of government governance models in the public sector with the aim of eliminating time-consuming bureaucracy, reporting, control and detail management, and instead of allowing employees to use their professional judgement and trust their assessments.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1086	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to implement the principle of ‘one door in’, by strengthening the local Nav office with people from the special units so that people can see that we are getting authoritative Nav offices.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to implement the principle of ‘one door-to-door’ in Nav by strengthening local offices. The strengthening must take place through a transfer of significant resources and positions from special units to first line and must be of such a scale that it involves a real and actual shift of power.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1110	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requests the Government to file a case for uniform management at all Nav offices and that the Chairman also joins the Board of Governors in the municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1127	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for urgent action to be taken to identify the internal mechanisms in the labour and welfare movement that have slowed down or hampered the expected implementation of the Nav reform, so that implementation is now proceeding.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the youth guarantees rather than to liquidate them as the government now provides’. The Greens have announced support for the proposals
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1151	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the Youth Guarantee.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1169	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for uniform management at all Nav offices and that the Chairperson should also join the Council’s senior management group in the municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1186	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to govern Nav by means of a central order to extend existing cooperation with the manning industry, but to leave it to the assessments already made locally.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to base any changes in the staffing of each Nav Office as a result of the abolition of the State staffing guarantee on local agreement.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1210	The Socialist Left will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1215	So let's do the voting again. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1229	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a merger to a smaller and larger Nav office occurs only as a result of local assessments and decisions. The same applies to any merger of county offices in the context of the regional reform. At both levels, account shall be taken of the need for Sami-language services in the counties and municipalities where relevant.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1246	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide regulations/guidelines to draw up the limits of what Nav himself is supposed to be able to do on his own initiative and what the work and inclusion companies are to do.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 5 and 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to refrain from attempts to transfer permanent work to the municipalities and to maintain VTA as part of the State labour market policy.’ [[VTA]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that growth and reintroduction companies are given greater responsibility for following up users on long-term organised work in the ordinary enterprise [[VTO]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, as an important measure of increased freedom of action and authority for the individual Nav Office, to review the letter of assignment to the Unit with a critical look and to replace the detailed management of instruments, with more emphasis on governance through the results achieved.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Nav offices to continue to operate regular employment services, as an instrument for building up, strengthening and maintaining labour skills in each Nav office and developing closer cooperation with employers in the private and public sectors, in line with the conditions of the Nav reform.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1298	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the realization of the ‘one-door’ principle by strengthening the local Nav Office by bringing back powers in areas that have now been added to the special units contrary to the Stortingen assumptions when the Nav reform was introduced in a way that strengthens local offices through the transfer of resources, authority and competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1315	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with the results of the evaluation of the outsourcing of labour market measures in the protected sector, in view of the user involvement and the results achieved, and to propose any changes in tendering practices for better achievement of the objectives’.» The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The President has reason to believe that there may be a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1332	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to make sure that Nav's offers to people with mental disorders are strengthened. The good experience gained in individual job support trials must be safeguarded by the continuation and dissemination of the work methodology developed in the establishment after the end of the experimental periods.» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1362	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the Committee's suspension. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1380	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-17.ana.ud442e1427	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
