ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e123	From the representatives of Jørund Rytman, Eirin Sund and Anne Tingelstad Wøien, there is an application for leave from 10 January to 31 March – all to take a master's course at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas 10 January–30. March For Uppland County: Ivar Odnes 10 January-30. March For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 10 January–30. March
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e165	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e170	On behalf of myself and the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, it is a pleasure to propose a truth commission on research policy and wrongs committed against the Sami and female people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e175	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e180	On behalf of the Green Party, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on national measures to halt sea and coastal pollution and a proposal to raise animal welfare in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e185	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with the matter. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e209	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e225	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group, 10 minutes to members of the Government and 10 minutes to members of the Presidency. Furthermore, the President will propose that no line be drawn up and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers – in addition to the allocated speaking time – have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e234	Usually, the budget setting by the Control and Constitutional Committee tends to be simple and what I would call an ordinary matter, but that is not the way it is in the year's budgetary procedure. This year, the Committee has had two important and demanding issues for consideration. One is the royal house, more specifically the cap. 1 entry 50 The Royal Court, in which the Committee unanimously determines that the objectives which in its time were drawn up by the Palace Committee and which were subsequently promoted by the Government of Bondevik that the Royal Court and the Royal Banks should be granted separately, are maintained. I believe that Mr Lundtigen will elaborate thoroughly on behalf of the Committee later in the debate. Then it's a cap. 41 item 45 called Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, an item containing appropriations for rehabilitation and new construction in Prince’s Gate 26 and the construction of a new descent to the garage. It is stated in the year’s budget proposal that there is a need to increase the cost framework to 1.8 billion. kr to implement this project. The other items that this setting also deals with are of course important in themselves. They have joined the Committee unanimously, without any further comments being made. I would like to say here to Stortinget that this matter has been broad, difficult and demanding for the Committee. I would therefore like to stress a thank you to the Committee for all the work that has been done, which has been done in this matter, and I would like to express great satisfaction at the fact that today there is a unanimous position on all points, and especially on this matter. I assume that the members of the Committee themselves will explain the areas in the vote for which they are the rapporteur-general. The Committee endorses the government's proposal on the capped appropriations. Item 41, item 45. In its work on this part of the nomination, the Committee has had a comprehensive correspondence with the Presidency. The letter of the Committee to the Presidency and their replies follow as an annex printed. I refer here to these attachments. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the Stortinge to what includes the Presidency's letter on Multiconsult and the claims made there on incorrect and unworkable work. This letter has decided to exempt the Presidency from public disclosure, as it may be part of any future legal proceedings. The Committee has accepted this. The Committee's view on this is expressed in its opinion as follows: ‘The Committee takes for preliminary information that disagreements about the construction project may result in a legal process between the builder and the consultant [[Parliament agreed to the request for an early vote]] [[Multiconsult ASA]] It is important here for me to stress that the Committee does not take a position on this matter. A letter from the Presidency in which parts of the contents have been unloaded will also follow as an appendix printed. The reason given by the Presidency is that it is responsible for ensuring the security of the Storting. I don't want to go into this any further now, but I want to stress the fundamental challenge that the committee has information that not all of the Storting can take part in. The Committee expresses understanding and recognition of the work on the rehabilitation of the Prince’s Gate 26, new postal and goods reception facilities and new entry into the garage. The premises for safety work related to Stortinget’s buildings changed significantly after 22 July 2011 and safety concerns triggered a number of security measures in and around the landfill. The size has also given its support to this in budgetary proceedings since the start of the process. What the Committee is very serious about is the development of the cost framework for the project. Cost developments are very serious, and we write in our unanimous attitude: «The Committee notes that the allocation to Stortinget, cap. 41 the Prinsensgate 26, has a new estimated final result, which in the 2017 budget is 1.8 billion. krones. This is 350 million. krone in exceedance compared to what was announced in the 2016 State budget, 660 million. kroner above what was announced in the State budget for 2015 and SEK 1.1 billion. over the expected cost in the May 2013 decision base. This, even if cost estimates with embedded safety margins were available in the various milestones.’» Further: ‘The Committee is of the opinion that the budget excesses are very regrettable and that it is primarily the builder himself who is responsible. The significant deviations in the building project Prince's Gate 26 mv. due to serious deficiencies in the planning and implementation of the project.’;» The builder is here to understand, in the Committee's opinion, like the presidency and the administration. During the last year's budgetary procedure, the Committee criticised the increased cost framework estimated at 1.45 billion. kr. The Committee was critical of the growth of expenditure and considered that the Stortinget should have been kept more informed. The President of the Grand Duchy said in the debate: ‘The Presidency will, of course, continue to follow this project closely and continuously assess the need for measures to ensure effective implementation and proper cost control, and of course we will be able to deepen ourselves in these points in a different context — in terms of what the Committee has requested’. The Committee notes that it has not been kept informed. The new 350 million exceedance. kr in the year's budget was briefed about three days before the government budget was presented. In fact, information on the project was provided to the parliamentary leaders at a special meeting on the matter on 9 February 2016. But parliamentary leaders do not form an organ in Stortinget. Information to them is therefore not what the Committee has requested. A Joint Committee does not consider what is at the root of the major exceedances at this stage, but considers that it is the presidency's responsibility to decide on this. Only when there is a thorough and comprehensive review of the whole complex of cases can the Committee decide on the reason for the large budget excesses. The Committee is aware of the fact that the Riksrevision carries out a review of the case, but will propose, independently of this, that the Riksrevision initiate a specific examination of the case in its full scope. This is necessary, the seriousness of the matter being taken into account. Therefore, the Committee considers that the law on the Riksrevision § 9 seventh paragraph first sentence should apply and promotes the following proposal for the Stortinget: ‘The Grand Court asks the Riksrevision to review the entire building project Prince’s Gate 26 mv.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e294	I take the floor as rapporteur of the case. 42, and the Ombudsman’s Office for Defence, the Defence Ombudsman and his administration. The Ombudsman shall contribute to ensuring the rights of defence personnel and contribute to the effectiveness of defence. The Ombudsman performs an important function in the Norwegian Defence, and in particular this is important in these times when we have staff deployed in several locations in foreign operations, while the defence carries out a review of its structure, and there are structural changes in the time to come. The Committee may, by means of annual communications, have access to the work of the Ombudsman and the Committee has been able to identify the diversity of tasks which it is concerned with. In examining the annual reports, the Committee took particular note of the good work undertaken to facilitate the proper care of our veterans following the completion of difficult international missions. It is proposed to allocate 7.1 million. kr to the Ombudsman for 2017. The Committee has no comments and agrees to them. I will also link some comments to the chapter. 41, which relates to the Stortinget, and my comments relate more specifically to item 45 Larger equipment purchases and maintenance, more specifically to the conversion and extension of the Stortinget building mass. The Committee has been informed that the reconstruction work in the Prince’s Gate 26, which includes new postal and goods reception facilities and underground entry stratagems, needs an additional allocation of 514 million. kr, so that the financial envelope for the project is increased to SEK 1,8 billion. kr. Also in the 2016 budget proposal, an increase in the cost of the project was announced, so that the cost framework was set at 1.44 billion. kr, due to unexpected ground conditions and necessary re-projection, etc. With the large construction work that has taken place over time in the area in which these works are carried out, I assume that the basic conditions in which a work is carried out are well-known among major construction companies and consulting engineering companies. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, as the Committee on Budgets for this budget chapter, cannot be informed of the new increase in expenditure until the budgetary procedure, despite the fact that, at its previous reading, the Committee asked for ongoing information on the project in good time before the next presentation of the budget. The level of cost increases in this project is very large, and there are still some uncertainties about why this has not been captured in the past. For this reason, the Committee calls for the Riksrevision to review the entire construction project in its full scope, to which a unanimous committee has agreed. Otherwise, I refer you to the thorough examination of the matter by the case rapporteur, Martin Kolberg, to which I essentially agree. Furthermore, I refer to the Committee's comments in its position on this matter. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Lundtägen on his work on the appropriations for the Royal Court of Justice and on the allocation of the H.M. King and H.M. respectively. The Queen and H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The Crown Princess. In particular, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the matter could be raised with a unanimous committee and that it is continuing previous decisions of principle in the Grand Duchy on these appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e311	In the budgetary framework for which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is responsible, the external bodies of the Storting are in addition to the Royal House and the Stortinge. The bodies of the Magnificent are of great importance to our democratic system. The Defence Ombudsman supervises all defence personnel, including security officers, officers and civil servants, and conducts regular inspections of military installations. The size is given here an annual report through Document 5. This is an important report to the Storting, which has also been the subject of attention this year. The role of the Ombudsman is particularly important in situations where the defence is under transition – and the defence has been for a long time – and when many major conversion processes are carried out simultaneously. The Ombudsman reports on important issues that are central to the knowledge of the Grand Duchy and, in view of its sometimes somewhat negative attention that may become part of the defence, it is particularly important to include the Ombudsman’s reporting, which gives a complementary and nuanced picture. Because there is reason to commend all those who contribute to creating a good job, for both military and civil personnel at all levels of Norwegian defence. The Ombudsman’s opinion helps to make this visible, while the Ombudsman is working on critical issues. It's important for the Storting to bring this. The budget also includes the appropriations made available to the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for the administration, the Steering Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service, the National Institute for Human Rights and the National Audit Office – all central and important institutions of great importance for the work of the Grand Duchy and essential for maintaining good democratic processes in our society. So it is that in this budgetary procedure there are two aspects in particular that have been given extra attention. This relates to the costs of refurbishment and rehabilitation of the building of the Storting, and to matters relating to the budgeting of items of the Royal Court. I am pleased that the Committee has agreed on a common position in both of these cases, and I would also like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the rapporteurs for these two areas. It's serious, what we see now about the costs of construction work on Stortinget. I don't want a second to doubt that there was and is a need for refurbishment, rehabilitation and expansion, and there are several reasons why it was absolutely necessary to take some important action. Among other things, 22 July-terrorism revealed the need for a re-examination of security needs also at Stortinget. I also do not doubt the need for a new postal and goods office. However, the problem here seems to be a lack of management and control of the project and a cost spiral that has run smoothly. Overruns in the budget are very regrettable, and it is primarily the builder himself who is responsible. The significant deviations in the Prince's Gate 26 construction project are due to serious deficiencies in the planning and implementation of the project. The builder is the presidency and the administration. It is these who are responsible for informing the Storting, and it is these who are also responsible for proposing the annual appropriations. During the last year’s budgetary procedure, the Committee criticised the increased cost framework, which was then estimated at 1.45 billion. kr, so now costs are increasing further. I fully support what the Committee as a whole expresses, namely that it is critical that, as the Committee responsible for the budget, the Committee has not been sufficiently briefed, as provided for by the Committee last year. As stated in the setting, we are aware that the Riksrevision will take a review of the matter. That's good, but what's referred to there concerns the accounting aspects of the case. That is why the Committee – and the Christian People's Party supports this – promotes a proposal for the Riksrevision to review the entire construction project. Unfortunately, it is absolutely necessary to have this review carried out, and it is important that this review is carried out by the National Audit Office. As far as the Royal Court is concerned, the Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, believes that there is a need to look at the premise for the use of money over the cap. 1 item 50. The opinion sets out in detail how the Committee sees that this can be done, where appropriate, and I shall then refer to what is said there. We trust that the hope manages the funds according to the assumptions that have been agreed since the changes after the Castle Committee. However, it is an independent point that as much as possible is sought to show transparency in line with the principles of the Public Health Act. Now the Royal Court is not subject to the Public Service Act, that's not what's going on here, I just want to point out what an overall committee says, namely that the Public Service Act provides some good guidelines that are worth taking along. Although we have not found support for the Council of State's proposals for adjustments to the budget's externalities, we do not believe that there is any basis for claiming that the King has wrongly spent money on himself, as we note that some media produce the budget position. We have great respect for the efforts of the King and his family for the interests of the nation. A kingship is a fact of life that cannot be compared to a normal working situation. In this context, it is also clear that the court is the King's organization, and that this organisation is at the service of the King, regardless of whether he is in official or private property. However, these peculiarities require a clear distinction to be made in the means of value-added maintenance and development of the royal family's private properties. It is important to ensure that such costs are covered by the plan. We think there is a need to ensure better reporting in this area. In addition, the Christian People's Party joins the proposal for the allocation of framework area 14 and refers otherwise to the rapporteur's presentation and vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e336	As case rapporteur for the Royal House and thus also for the Royal Court, post 50, it is natural for me to go reasonably thoroughly into it. I would first like to thank you for very thorough discussions – it is rarely a matter that has been discussed from so many angles – and the most important, namely unanimous conclusions on the relationship between the court and the royal family's private properties. That's what's in our comments. This case has a history. It was a long wish to create more transparent cash flows and clearer responsibilities between the state and the royal house. Therefore, the government reduced the Royal Property Selection of the State, the Castle Committee, in 1998. The aim was to create a more tidy and transparent administration, and the proposals submitted by the selection in 2001 meant that the transfer to the Royal Court and the Royal Banks would be granted separately. The royals were to cover the operation of their own properties over the apanage. As a result, from 2002 to 2016, the government budgets have been required to cover the costs of operating and maintaining private properties. Wages and salaries for work on royal private property are covered by the concept of ‘operation’ in the work of the Royal Committee. Therefore, an agreement shall also cover compensation of employees for work. In summary, the royal family's pledge shall cover the private properties, while the state's appropriations for the royal court shall cover the country's properties. Then we experience that what was presented by the Council of State this year under cover. 1 entry 50 The Royal Hope is being changed: It's now called: ‘coverage of remuneration of all employees of the Royal Court of Justice;’;» [[...]] – and here comes the point – ‘Included wage and salary earners for operations and minor maintenance tasks of H.M. Kongen and H.M. Queens and H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The Crown Princess’s private properties.’» This theme has been the subject of extensive discussions within the Committee. This led the Committee to believe that it is important to keep this distinction in the context of the allocation to the Court of Justice and the allocation to the Bank. When the private royal properties are used for events related to the royal duties, the expenditure is charged to the royal court. This should be reported in the annual report of the Royal Hope afterwards. The Committee also requests that the annual report on the Royal Court report report report more detail on the use of means of maintenance above heading 50. The Committee considers that transparency should be demonstrated as far as possible in line with the Public Health Act. At the same time – and I would like to stress it – we note that the legislator has taken the position that the disclosure law does not apply to the Royal Court. The Committee takes the view that if the Ministry — and this is essential — will be able to use remuneration for employees of the Royal Court for operating and minor maintenance tasks on the royal family's private property, this may be done in two fundamentally different ways. One is that expenditure on management, operations including wages, salaries, maintenance and any development of the royal family's private properties are reported in the Royal Court Annual Report, the other is an increase in the level of apancy, so that the royal family can pay for the management, operation including wages, maintenance and possible development of the royal court's private property. On my own account, I would say that the second option, that the deal is increasing, is the most tidy and the most in line with the work of the Palace Committee. I would just like to conclude by saying that this has been thoroughly examined in the Committee. I am very pleased that this is a unanimous attitude. Whatever the view of the Royal House, it's gathered all the parties here, and it's a citizen that you're safer in the discussions ahead. I expect the Council of State, the Court and the King to carry out what is said here. The second point I want to spend some time on is what many people have been about, which is very important, namely the reconstruction work in the Prince's Gate 26. There were comments last year — brief comments indicating that there appears to have been a failure in planning and/or implementation. For my part, I said, ‘This member assumes that the responsibility for this is clearly placed.’ What has now been shown is that there has been a clear failure, and that failure has continued. I agree with what the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur, Mr Kolberg, said that it has been a broad, difficult and demanding matter for the committee, and it has been thoroughly examined, with the greatest desire to get to the bottom of the matter, which we have not fully done. I would say that it is quite incomprehensible to me that the Storting, at the presidency, chose seas as builders instead of using State Buildings – State Buildings, which have a competence far beyond what the Storting could ever have. That is why it is important that this issue be carefully considered when the Riksrevision is now going to look at the whole issue. Otherwise, I would just like to make a few brief comments on the matter. A comprehensive risk assessment of the entire building mass of Storting was started in the spring of 2012. In January 2013, before the Security Group had delivered its final report, it was decided to include a new postal and goods office in the Project for the Rehabilitation of the Prince's Gate 26. In particular, the report from what was a security group came after a decision was taken to include the whole, which was in the mandate of the security group. Otherwise, more have been involved in the cost framework, which has evolved from evil to worse all the way. It is essential to clarify to what extent it has been informed of the Storting and whether the budgetary powers are adequate in relation to those required by other departments and other underlying agencies. This matter is very serious when you look at the development of costs and what has happened in the project. I would also like to stress what the rapporteur said, that it is primarily the builder's seam that is responsible. I want to elaborate on what is said in the vote, that the significant deviations in the Prince's Gate 26 construction project are due to serious deficiencies in the planning and implementation of the project. The Presidency and the Administration constitute the builder and are responsible for informing the Storting and proposing the annual appropriations through the budget proposals. That is why it is quite natural for us to land on the conclusion that the Riksaudition is carrying out a full review of the case, and therefore it is especially important that we decide on it. I am fully committed to it, and hope that it can shed a clear light on what is liability, and what has happened in the matter so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e376	There are many monarchies in this room and some Republicans, but regardless of what one mine should be ruling in Norway, and regardless of the principle view of it, it should be possible to gather on a few important principles that should apply to the Royal Court. The two important principles that one should gather about are: It must be neat relationships. Openness must be demonstrated. Through a series of articles in the last year, Dagbladet has shown in a good way how, unfortunately, it hasn't always been tidy in the economy at the court. It has been, as I see it, a combination of what the Storting has meant to be the operating means of the court, and what the Stortinge meant to be the apanage, that is, the personal vows of the members of the royal house. Then I have to say that it was particularly disappointing to see in the government's budget proposal that the Minister of Local Affairs is trying to smooth this out with formulations that give the impression that this is what it has always meant to be done – a kind of back-up. In my opinion, it is quite obvious that it does not have our Storting's intention. For this reason, I am particularly pleased that the Committee of Consultants has just decided it today, and that he says through his remarks that there is a conscious thought that there are different budget lines here. There is something that the hope must and should stick to. Two different directions are outlined in the future for how to get more neat conditions. One, option A, is that in the Annual Report, a person is more visible where the funds go – i.e. if funds allocated to the Royal Court are used, for example. working on private property, it must be visible, or, option B, it must be increased. Whether or not to increase the deal becomes a budgetary debate – it’s quite big already – but from my point of view, it’s pretty clear that option A, that what the deal is supposed to be used for, is what he’s going to be used for, and not for other budget lines, should be the option that falls down on. The Committee wrote: ‘The Committee notes at the same time that the legislator has taken the view that the public law does not apply to the Royal Court.’ Yeah, it's true that legislators, i.e. we, have taken that position. What's a little bit surprising about that is that the position the lawmakers have never taken the trouble to justify, for example. when a public law was introduced in its current form – a mere observation that this should be the case. Then the signatures and some other representatives returned a proposal for a representative for a time when we asked that the royal court should come under public law. Then a question was sent to the ministry about what they meant about it, and then there was a foundation that really didn't care about the question. That foundation only appeared to the Committee – that was the Justice Committee – and nothing more. Then there was a debate here in the Chamber, where the case-speaker went up to the pulpit and found that this is the case. So the representative Iselin Nybø, from the big group to the left, went up to the pulpit and gave a good reason why it should, of course, be so that the Royal Court too is covered by public law, and no one else took the floor. So now, write the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that this is the way it is – this position has been taken by the legislator. Even if that's not the case we're now discussing, I'll still say in my post now that it might soon be time for the legislator to make an attempt to justify why the public law shouldn't apply to the Royal Court. The hard-working work that the Daily newspaper has done in order to find out a number of things that are by themselves no scandals, but which have made it clear why it is necessary for a person now to take the grip of a take, has not been a simple job. It is not an easy job to go after money in a body that does not have a public postal record, for example. There is every reason to take pleasure in the responsibility and cleanliness that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is now demonstrating by determining which money should and should not be spent. But I want to encourage the same committee and my co-representatives to take a little round with themselves next time and ask themselves, is it really so hard to see how public money is done at the Royal Court? Perhaps we should consider whether the law that guarantees public access to money in other public bodies should also apply to this body.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e410	Let me first join the post of the representative Rotevatern. That's good. On behalf of SV, I intend to comment on some parts of this year's setting, as a kind of substitute for Bård Vegar Solhjell, SV's representative in the Committee. In this budget, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has examined the matter of the construction work in the Prince's Gate 26. We elected people have a special responsibility to have good control of the costs of rebuilding our own building. There must be good management and good information flow, not least if things go differently than you had planned in advance. And it's gone differently than you had planned in advance. When the Committee dealt with this matter last year, an overall committee criticised that the cost framework had then increased to 1.45 billion. kr. In the debate here in the Chamber at the time, several members of the Committee asked to be kept constantly informed about developments in the future. Since then, the cost framework for the project has increased by 350 million. kr, but the Committee was not informed of this until the last day of the previous session, i.e. in September of this year, just before the 2017 budget was presented. That is what the Committee rightly believes to be critical. I agree with the comments from the Committee and believe that there is reason to stress that this is a serious matter. This is a project that costs a lot of money, the price has constantly increased, and Stortinget could and should get more information about the process along the way. The size is the builder of this construction project. It follows that the Stortinget is primarily responsible for the process. The Committee must now follow this matter closely, and it is important that the Presidency keeps the Storting informed on a continuous basis. It is also true that the National Audit Office is now reviewing what has happened. Once that review has been completed, the Committee must decide what has really happened. In this budget, the Committee has also examined the appropriations for the royal house, which the representative Rotevatn had in place. For SV, as much transparency as possible about the use of this money is important, and that principle has been leading for us. It is reasonable and appropriate to distinguish between the appropriations allocated to the court and the appropriations allocated to the agreement. While the money of the court shall be able to cover the work of the royal property of the State, the appropriations for the agreement shall cover the work of the private royal property. That distinction has been made clear in the budgets from 2002 to this year. We should keep that distinction and practice. It is therefore good that the Committee has agreed to reject the government's proposal for a more unclear distinction between these two items. We also believe that there must be transparency about how the money is used. We therefore support the proposal to report more detail on the use of the means of the court for maintenance. As far as possible, this should also be transparent, in line with the Public Health Act. This budget also has an efficiency boost for the State, which was increased by 0.3 percentage points through the budgetary agreement. In some cases, it may be possible to improve the efficiency of the public sector somewhat and in other cases a great deal. But the crucial thing is that it happens in a responsible, planned and thoughtful way. I believe that such a large cut as what has now been adopted could go beyond central government tasks. It may seem that the government really agrees with that, since they have chosen to protect the Prime Minister's office for exactly this cut. If I understood correctly the Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's Office's statements to the VG, it was done because it was thought that the cut could directly affect the government's work. Think about it! The fact that a cut could directly affect someone's work is therefore a delivery gel that relates to the Prime Minister's office, but not to the police or our hospitals. I think more people will notice that such a big cut will have real consequences, not just in the Prime Minister's office. Therefore SV has gone against this increase in the cut. We should also see these savings in the light of our own environment. As I said, I am not in the Control and Constitutional Committee, but in the Financial Committee. While I first have the floor, I was going to take advantage of the opportunity to reflect – on my own behalf, well to note – on some of the expenses of Stortinget in the day. Yesterday, for example, I got a new business card. I think all the representatives have received these business cards, fine business cards in gold and new design. But I have business cards from before, actually very many, great business cards with a graphic profile that reflects the function and design of the staging building. In the new profile, that logo is replaced by a rickshaw, what do we say, dubiously heraldly linked to the real rickshaw? We have a rickshaw, but now the rickshaw has its own rickshaw. Does the Storting need it? How much did it cost to make your own national lion for Stortinget? Should we make our own flag too? Why does the Stortinge have to have their own national lion? Did we really need a new graphic profile? Did I need new business cards? I'm not asking to make a big number of something that's probably not the very big cost, but because it's a continuous trend. The President said yesterday in his beautiful speech to the Stortinget on Christmas Day that the Stortinget has the «Oslo's cheapest cortado». Does Stortinget Oslo need the cheapest cortado? Why does Stortinget have it? We have some of Oslo's highest wages and we can afford to pay a cortado otherwise. I ask this question because over 130 000 people in Norway lack jobs when we go into the Christmas celebration, while Stortinget obliges virtually all state agencies to save ever more money each year on functions that are important for the operation of public Norway. I'm just a little bit unsure whether we have a reflected enough relationship to the relationship between the expenses we incur: the paychecks we propose to ourselves, the great new business cards with a new rickshaw in gold, Oslo's cheapest cortado and the situation we impose on others to have to comply with. Perhaps we should rather go through this use of money and ask ourselves the question: Is all the parts of the Storting properly manned? Is the framework in place for employees in Stortinget to do the job they need to do to serve Norwegian democracy and representatives as best they can? Those who sell Oslo's cheapest cortado here on the building are the nicest people I know in the entire staging building. It's not who I'm talking about, but it's the use of money. I think the Storting, especially at a time when we are demanding everyone else to save quite raw with cheese needs, would have been worth having a slightly more inquisitorial relationship with the expenses we grant ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e427	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has made its decision on the state's appropriations for the 2017 Royal Court. The Committee's position is based on the fact that the work of the Palace Committee provided the basis for today's arrangement for the granting of the Royal Court and the Royal Court's apâtiques separately. The Committee indicated that the royal estate of the royal family should cover the private properties and the state’s allocations to the royal court should cover the property of the country. It should be stressed that since 2002, a distinction has been made between the armaments and the appropriations for the Royal Court, on the basis that when the Court’s staff perform tasks on the private property, the Court’s appropriations shall be charged. The State’s annual transfers to the Royal Court are governed by the Constitution § 75e. This provision does not prejudge the disposal of the payments. It is linked to the Basic Law § 24, which states that the Royal Court is H.M. King's own organization. The Royal Court is not under the government's command. The primary task of the court is to assist and facilitate the royal. This applies regardless of where the royals are located, whether they are in state or private properties, or elsewhere. Until 2002, the funds of the court were granted over the plank, which was then the only grant to the royal house. The plan was then at a higher level than today, and there was no transparency in the royal house's financial management. The castle administration was responsible for the royal property of the State, while the court carried out the same kind of tasks on the private royal properties. In the wake of the refurbishment at the Castle in the 1990s, the Castle Committee was set up to make recommendations for a new organisation and allocation of responsibilities and tasks for the royal property of the State and to propose a new budgetary arrangement relating thereto. It was not within the terms of reference or the work of the Palace Committee to look at the arrangements for the state's transfers to the royal house. This is reflected in the mandate set out in the Final Report of the Castle Committee of September 2002. The result of the work of the Palace Committee is the present arrangement for the state royal properties with the sharing of responsibilities between the Royal Court and State Building. At the same time as the work of the Palace Committee, a separate working group was also set up to look at the state's transfers to the royal house. The background was a desire for a more transparent system for the appropriations made available to the court. Naturally, the court's new duties in the state royal properties were also taken into account. There was no premise or recommendation on changes in the duties of the court for the royals as such, nor for assistance to the private properties. But in order to avoid a two-track system, where someone was paid from the plan, while others were paid by the grant to the court, it was recommended to collect all wage and salary costs at heading 50, regardless of where the employees carried out their duties. This was introduced from 2002. Following a draft of the State’s Financial Regulation, a separate Financial Regulation was adopted for the State’s transfers to the Royal Court, adopted by the Crown Prince’s Resolution of 5 July 2002. In other words, there were relatively similar rules for transfers to the court and reporting on the use of the funds for state-owned enterprises. At the same time, this Financial Regulation ensures the transparency of transfers by the State to the Court of Justice and the use of funds. The royal house and the royals perform their functions 24 hours a day, year-round. The obligations of the Royal shall not cease to apply when they are on private property. In other words, it is not a geographical distinction for the exercise of the king's truth whether His Majesty is at the Castle or at the King's Court. It is natural that the court's staff are present where the royals are located, to assist and facilitate them. Of course, this also applies to private properties. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it was proposed in the budget line of the Court for 2017 that it should also cover remuneration for employees carrying out operational tasks and minor maintenance tasks of the private property. These are tasks that have no character of increasing the royal's personal wealth, but that help the royals in the exercise of their daily activities. The proposal for clarification was also justified by the fact that it was a practical and economic rational arrangement for those who know the private property to carry out ongoing operational tasks and minor maintenance work. The staff of the Hoff also have the necessary security clearance. Furthermore, it is desirable to avoid comprehensive systems of hourly and internal invoicing for current operations and minor maintenance. I would like to stress that the ministry did not intend to change the assumption of the distinction between the plan and the allocation to the court. I read the Committee's attitude as a clear clarification that investments and maintenance works of an added value to the private property are to be financed from the plan, possibly using private funds. In the individual cases where the court’s employees are used for major projects of the private property, this shall be covered by the agreement or private funds through invoicing. I also believe that these clear assumptions of the committee do not prevent tasks such as mowing snow, cleaning the garden, washing or changing bulbs from continuing to be carried out by the court's employees on the private properties without extensive internal billing. On the basis of the Committee's comments on greater transparency, I would also like to have a dialogue with the hope of how the use of the Court's staff on private property should be referred to in the Annual Report of the Royal Court afterwards. I would once again like to stress that the Ministry has not intended to change the terms of the appropriations for the Royal Court. Of course, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will follow up on the comments of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We will consider how best to do so, and I will keep Stortinget informed and possibly come back in later budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e459	I think it is right to link some comments to the construction project Prince's Gate 26, which includes the total rehabilitation of the Prince's Gate 26, the new mail and goods offices and the new entrance tunnel to the garage. First of all, I would like to say that the under-budgeting of the project is a matter that the presidency takes very seriously. I agree with the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that we are the builder and responsible for the project. It is also the Presidency's clear belief that completely central deliveries in the project have maintained far too poor quality, which has contributed significantly to the cost estimates being too low. As you know, we have notified possible actions against the design team, Multiconsult ASA. At the outset, I would also like to say that the Presidency has had close contact with the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on this matter during the budgetary procedure. The Committee has been thoroughly involved in the background of the case and has received answers to all the questions they have asked to the Presidency. As the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs points out in its position, the construction work has been necessary. Furthermore, safety considerations, in particular in the light of what happened on 22 July 2011, have led to a number of decisions taken in the project in terms of both content and scope. The project provides a necessary upgrade of the building standard in Prince's Gate 26, which is an old town yard, as well as a new postal station and a new entry tunnel that has provided safe and secure access to Stortinget. We build too many decades in the future, so that the Stortinget gets modern, suitable and safe premises. The Prince's Gate 26 had a major need for upgrading all the technical facilities. In addition, a very poor fire state had been built, and the wooden beam layers had some major deformations. The building was also exposed to cracks and damage due to swelling of alumni in the ground. I would like to stress that although the restoration of the Prince's Gate 26 was initially not justified for safety reasons, such considerations have been central to the choices made for the scope and procedure of the project. Such development of the project has been necessary in order to meet the requirements and needs encountered, not least in the area of safety. The recommended measures in the safety group report, which carried out a comprehensive risk assessment of the entire building mass of the Storting, included: the fact that it was not possible to secure the façade in the Prince's Gate 26 satisfactorily without tearing the interior. Among other things, the safety team participated in: National Security Authority, Police Security Service, Oslo Police District, State Building and Defence Building. I note that the Control and Constitutional Committee believes it has not been kept sufficiently informed about the development of the project between budgetary procedures. In the corresponding budget debate a year ago, I stated that the presidency could provide further information on the construction project in a different context. Information was therefore provided on the project to the parliamentary leaders in separate meetings on the matter on 9 February and 30 September this year. It is natural for the parliamentary leaders to deal with the presidency when something is to be communicated between the budgetary procedures, and when it is not appropriate to put forward a separate case to the Grand Duchy in plenary. We have therefore followed the normal budgetary procedure in this matter. The Committee on Budgetary Control and Constitution was invited to the meeting on 30 September since the new budget was due to be presented immediately thereafter. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee, in its recommendation, proposed that the Stortinge should ask the National Audit Office to review the entire construction project. I think that makes sense. This is a major and serious matter which should not only be dealt with by the Storting itself, and which it would be useful for an external actor to look into. As you know, the National Audit Office recently carried out an interim audit of the construction project, where no significant findings were identified. It has been a theme that state-building has not been more involved in the construction project. It was in the start-up phase of the project that there was contact and correspondence with State Building and with the Ministry of General Affairs, which was then the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. The dialogue with the Ministry showed that it was enough possible for State Building to assist, but in order to assume the responsibilities of the builder by acting as a builder's agent, it would be necessary to examine further the constitutional aspects of such a role for State Building. In any case, state buildings did not have the capacity at that time to undertake such a task. Using State Building as a building contractor for the project was therefore not an alternative, and instead we continued to work to establish cooperation with State Building in more defined areas. Among other things, we have engaged a former project director in Statsbyggen, who continues to be responsible for Statsbyggen, as adviser in the project and member of the project council. Furthermore, the project has used State Building Standard Documents and Agreements in the contracts concluded with the suppliers. The use of State Building as a building contractor would otherwise not exclude the Stortinget’s responsibility as owner and user, with the tasks involved. I would also like to make it clear that State Building, as a potential building contractor, would not have replaced Multiconsult as a projector, as far as these are two different functions. However, there is reason to take a closer look at this, and we are going to investigate the relationship with State Building in the case that it turns out appropriate to involve them in any future projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e487	I think I'll start with the happy one, namely the post from the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen. One should listen carefully when SV is concerned about expenditure growth. I think he had an excellent post. However, I will distance myself from his perception that the Stortinget has got a new rickshaw. We haven't got any rickshaws, we've got a sea horse! It can, of course, bring to mind the skill mark of the 1960s in swimming, which is not a bad trait for members of this assembly. So over to the more solemn, namely, the appropriations of the Storting to our royal family and court administration. I just have to say that I think the state council Sanner's presentation of the interface between the expenses to be charged to the plan and the expenses to be charged to the court administration, and the boundary between them, was exemplary and at least covers the views of our parties on this in the committee. And that's right – we don't want impractical arrangements with a comprehensive internal billing. These are appropriations coming from the Storting, so we should have a practical approach, while at the same time ensuring that value-added maintenance, which tends to be new, can be problematic. We've also written in the statement that if the Council of State believes that the limits and the driving rules you have now are too impractical, he's welcome back to Stortinget, and we want an open mind to discuss these boundaries. While we're in the field of investments in value-added maintenance, I also have to go to the Prince's Gate 26 and the construction business that consists of rehabilitation, as originally announced to Stortinget. If you go there now, you'll see that it's set up for a complete new building, because it's an empty space behind the façade, which is now standing like a potkin backdrop. At different stages of the project, a new postal and goods office has been included, somewhat more on the basis of the wish to meet needs that had been notified following a vulnerability assessment of the security conditions, as well as a drop-down solution, which is the big problem. It is this tunnel that was intended to be placed immediately at the post office in the early stages – it is often practical to have it close to where you are going. Then it was later pushed 120 meters away, to Lower Volggate. And it also meant certain conflicts, as it always does in a city. Finally, this idea came to mind to make tunnel entries from the counter-cut – about where the Schøyen buses were in the old days, if you remember it. When there is something that does not contribute functionally to increasing the operational capacity of the Storting and is so strongly justified for safety reasons, it is clear that when the Riksrevision is going to go through this, it is also necessary to consider the extent to which there has been an indispensable requirement of the safety bodies to obtain this solution, or if only ideal solutions have been identified. It should also be part of the assessment basis that one could think of a zero option, where one could ensure the size better by, among other things. to have strict time control of deliveries – that could also be thought of, so that you did not necessarily get an additional kitchen access to Stortinget. In that case, it must be the most expensive kitchen road in Norway. It gives us nothing functionally new other than maybe more maintenance tasks for the future. I am confident that the Riksrevision will look at these pages. And of course, the decision base depends on knowing where to start, where to not expand the project, and that you also have good systems to deal with changes in the project, so you get through the whole mountain. I have to say that you have not come all the way through this project from the point of view of a taxpayer. 1.8 B.C.E. NOK for a kitchen entrance is not something we can stand for with the taxpayers. But I see that it is possible to think otherwise about this. So there's one side of the thing that this hall should be a little bit busy, which of course goes more on the internal lines here in the house. However, it is argued that the Presidency does not have to deal with a unanimous budgetary remark from what is actually the right budgetary committee. It is even suggested that we should only express ourselves in the context of the budget meeting once a year. It doesn't provide very precise control. You can ask what if the governance documents had been exemplary in their information. So they have asked the Secretariat to summarize the information that Stortinget has received over these years when these projects have been involved, and we see that there are a couple of sections each year, but it comes more and more into the description of last year's actual events. It's not budgeting, it's history writing. When it then takes easier euphemistic forms by the fact that refurbishment, renovation, rehabilitation really turns out to be an entirely new building, only in the most difficult way by keeping the old shell, it cannot be said that the presidency is characterized by the narrative and mediated by which the first president is otherwise a well-known holder. We must therefore insist that when the Storting Committee unanimously says something in the comments and asks for information, and does not get it, it cannot be heard that, on the way – on 9 February, early in the budget year – Parliamentary leaders have been briefed. We have no objection to it being briefed to the parliamentary leaders, that is not the problem. On the contrary – we are excited about all our colleagues who get insight into what you think and feel in the presidency on this matter. However, we also ask that this Committee on Budgets, which was concerned about the development of the previous budgetary procedure, be more closely informed along the way. It can do wonders, because it could be that we also understand more of the dilemmas that the presidency has faced. In reality, this seems more like keeping things inside and trying to keep them secret from criticism. I must mention one point to the chairman of the committee and to the rapporteur, Mr Kolberg. He said that the Committee had accepted the wish to hold back some information from the public. It is true that the Committee has calmed down and met these wishes. But I want to say from this speaker that I do not agree with the exercise of discretion and the application of the law on disclosure – we say that we do not have it, but nevertheless we are trying to comply with it here in Stortinget – which must also be the subject of discussion. We cannot hold a meaningful debate if we cannot also refer to the main figures. However, as an example of this, I have also had experience in breaking a desire to keep things away from the public by not referring to the trial sum addressed in this process notice to Multiconsult, and that one should not use in the general public the first figure on which the presidency laid down when they finally announced on 23 May 2013 that these projects were to be implemented, even though the solution for the drive-in was not known at that time – it came as known the following year. It must be possible to refer to such aggregates, so that taxpayers can inform themselves and assess whether this is a project that has been adequately managed. My answer to that is well now provided by my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e511	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e516	I would also like to stress the seriousness of the presidency's action in building the Prince's Gate, as the representative Tetzschner now made it, and that it is important to have the responsibility for the significant failure that has occurred. But when I asked for the floor, it was about Sanner's posts, which might raise doubts about what the committee has done. From 2002 to 2016, it was clear wording on cap. 1 item 50 in relation to the relationship between the court and the royal family's private property. This year, there were changes where it says: «included compensation of employees performing business activities and minor maintenance tasks on private properties». [[...]] That's when there was a change. Therefore, the Council of State's explanation is quite special when he says that it is written to avoid misunderstandings, that it is to clarify practical arrangements, and that it does not change the assumptions for the distinction. Well, that's what it does. I guess there's no doubt about what the council said about investing in the royal family's private properties, that it was going to be a deal. Nor should there be any doubt that the issue of maintenance of private properties should be of the agreement. What has been the big question has been wage costs for work on and operation of the royal family's private properties. Here the committee has been fairly precise, because we say in our position: ‘When private royal properties are used for events related to the royal duties, the expenditure charged to the royal court shall be that of the royal court.’ There's no doubt about it. The Committee does not wish to see any bureaucratic changes here. At the same time, the Committee later stated in its Opinion that it would: ‘provides that if the Ministry intends to use remuneration for employees of the Royal Court for the purpose of operating and minor maintenance tasks on the royal family’s private property, this may be done: [[...]] It is precisely ‘executing operations and minor maintenance tasks’ that is the wording of the Government’s proposal to the Stortinget, to which the Stortinget does not subscribe. So these are very precise wordings from our side, and I expect the Council of State to follow it up – after what has been written here, and what has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e540	I just want to, at the tame of the debate, be allowed to link some comments from the Central Party's big group to the expansion project in the Prince's Gate 26. I think, in line with what other speakers have said here today, that is the basis for stressing the seriousness of that matter. It is a process in which it is surprising in many ways that one has not had better cost control and also no better management of the project than has been the case. As the representative Tetzschner came up with, it's an advantage when you start a project, to know where to go. But it's also important that an en route ability to brake when you see that the speed gets too high. It is true, as the President-in-Office said, that this has been raised twice with the parliamentary leaders – both in February and September – and I would like to stress the three points the Central Party Group raised in those meetings. One is that we have asked what has been done along the way to actually reduce the cost of the project. We've been surprised by some of the assessments that have been made about the construction role, especially the relationship with state buildings. We have also given clear views on how we view a possible case, and not least the process risk related to that type of case. The central batch now records that the Riksrevision will review the project. We think that is positive and important, and we think it is natural that one then, also from the Stortings side, comes back to the different aspects of this matter when that review is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e551	I take the floor to say that I think it is good and important that there is a clear coincidence between the statements of the Grand President here in this debate and the Committee's view on the seriousness of this matter. That was an important statement on the part of the President, but I would also like to say that it was a very necessary statement. The President, like the Committee, says something else that is also important, and which I will therefore stress now at the end of this discussion, namely the recognition that it is the presidency/cash administration – but the presidency in principle – that is the builder of this matter. And it's in the committee's position that it's the builder who has the primary responsibility for the situation that this project has come into. It is necessary to state very clearly, as the Committee has expressed itself and in its work on this matter. The representative Tetzschner commented on my understanding that there were some letters that had not come here, and one that is gossiped, as it is called, or censored for plenary. I just want to point out what I said in my first post, that I think it's very problematic. There is an understanding within the Committee that the letter, which is comprehensive and contains many allegations of non-work by Multiconsult, can be a legal document and is therefore excluded. But what I think has been more difficult – and I would like to say from here once more – is the desire of the administration and therefore also the presidency to censor other, more ordinary letters to the Stortinget in plenary. It will be apparent from the annexes to the matter what is censored, and I would say to Stortinget that it has been a very difficult matter for the committee to accept. It is a matter of principle that I will challenge the presidency to think through by later crossroads, that one committee in a case like this has a set of information that is not fully accessible to plenary. It is a principle that should be discussed very thoroughly, because it is clear that it challenges plenary as such. Finally, I would like to say that the Storting is now going to agree that the framework for the construction project is going to be 1.8 billion. kr. If we get in the situation that it's not enough, I assume that the whole thing is constantly being informed about it, so that you can decide on it, and that we don't get into such a situation as this one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3, 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e604	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e613	I am sure the President understands that this is our contribution to the efficiency reform described in one of the settings we are now considering. I'll be very short. In the case of case No. 3, the position of the Financial Committee on Government budget appropriations for 2017 for Framework Boxes 19, 20, 22 and 90 and the chapters on transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad, I would basically just like to point out that this is part of the big debate we had during the financial debate. So I don't need to repeat the arguments for the positions we've taken in that case. In the case of case No. 4, which relates to the planned centralisation of the tax haven's office structure, as it is called in Document 8, we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, have promoted our own proposal, which I would like to refer to and address. There is a minority proposal No. 1 in the setting: ‘The government is asked to re-assess the number of government tax offices on the basis of overall regional policy assessments and the importance of State employment in this context.’ The background to our proposal is that there is a major change in the structure that is now taking place. We record that the government itself – without really giving any specific justification – has added in some offices in addition to the proposal from the department. It tells me that some offices may have been discussed here for district reasons, but it's hard to look at what the government itself has written. We believe that this is going too far in laying down offices, and will therefore promote this proposal in order to get a new assessment based on the assumptions I mentioned in my post. In the case of case No. 5, postponing the Financial Committee on Rebalancing the State Budget for 2016, I would like to address the Christian People's Party's proposal, which is about minor consumption in terms of effort-driven funding in the healthcare sector. We suggest that those funds are not withdrawn, but transferred to regional health businesses. I have thus addressed the proposals we have in all the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e631	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e637	I'm going to focus on our trade proposition and Innst. 5 S, where there are no major disagreements, but where there are significant and strong comments from the Workers' Party in particular about the government's use of oil money in the ordinary budgets. I am tempted to associate this with the scripture about seeing the splint in his brother's eye, while one does not become the beam in his own. There is repeated criticism of the government's use of oil money, and I think it's a bold criticism, because you don't get an eye on your own use, and not least the arrangement of it, and you don't have a tax increase of 10 billion. kr, approx., in each budget. What was the real purpose of closing funds from the fund into the Norwegian economy each year through the rule of action? Well, it would generate growth in the economy, and it would go to growth-promoting investment in road, rail, infrastructure, school, education, research, etc. – this we know so well. And so it is. But under our government, the device has gone more towards the right investments than under the red-green ones. You can just browse the national budget, and there you'll see that there's a change in what you're using on the "real" things. Then the practice was to be such that you had to invest more when the times passed, and less in the hours of attendance. We've had some difficulties – we had them in the financial crisis. Then more oil money was spent, and our soundness and our use of oil money could quickly be supported by banks and financial institutions. Similarly, the fall in oil prices has been met in 2014 and the years following that with strong measures. Nevertheless, the rule of action – the last year of about 3 pst. Over the three years, the government has spent 596 billion. kr of the oil money, as we call it. The working party has used approx. 590 B.C.E. kr – and now I have been very comfortable in the calculation and I don’t care so much about the budget line that took place last year, as you had a deposit of money that you didn’t know would come in, i.e. a disappearing little difference. Nevertheless, one makes it a point that the fund is supposed to go empty by 2045, assuming that the use is the same as it is now. But then you completely disregard all the reservations that you have to take. There will be crises, there will be downtimes, there will be uptimes – a lot will happen in the years ahead. Then you can't foreshadow that the use of oil money will lie there, on the countercycle that we now have. On the contrary, the government actually writes that the space for action will be smaller, and we'll act then, of course. Moreover, there are no economists who have criticised the use of oil money, especially with regard to the budgets that have been. And who would actually dry it, in the severe adversity we've had? So it's really just the Labor Party's closest robotic rhetoric that says this over and over again, and I'm associating again, but this time with the fairy tale of good day, man – axe shaft. We're not solving the situation we're in, by polemics on autopilot and calling for crisis on every single occasion. I think we'll just solve that by working hard to promote conversion, which can once again create new jobs. In the 2040s it's not up to me to know what the next generation will ask about, but it'll surprise me if they then ask if you had a policy in 2016 that made the fund 6 billion. kr greater or less than other political parties had suggested, so far ahead. The question to be asked is: what has been done over 20-30 years to create new jobs for an entire generation? Policy results on what we're going to live on in the future, what we're going to invest in, how we're going to create jobs, are there going to be questions about. There will be no questions of accumulated political rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e648	It is a little surprising that the Right's fiscal spokesman is referring only to rhetoric in the field of oil money use and responsible budgeting. Some of the debate on public money in the autumn has, among other things, was about the budgetary settlement we were given, where new sustainable expenditures were financed by pushing on projects, taking exceptional dividends and taking operating credits, but not actually deprioritising other investments. After all, the budgetary agreement that came makes it possible to have a greater financing challenge in the future than before the budgetary agreement. That's the sum of all these missing priorities that we've repeatedly pointed out in the opposition, making it possible to get poorer funding from the welfare state in the long term. Policies are also about priorities. Today we are going to deal with a new centralisation reform. There has been a blue thread in the government's work that all public enterprises should be centralised. In the police, we now see a massive centralisation across the country, with great concern about the so-called near-police reform, which has become a remote police reform. We see it in the municipal sector, where the government despite enormously many different forms of seduction, economic coercion, and – that is a little unparliamentary to say – almost hidden threats that now one must join forces. It gives no response, but now in the last round you think you should start with forced contractions after Christmas. We've seen it in hospitals, and we've seen it on Nav, where it's going to be a step forward that Nav users should not be able to meet a person personally, but that all contact should be made through a PC screen. And in today's treatment, we see it at the Skatetaten. You have to remove approx. 500 state posts around the country centralising the establishment to a few places. We believe it's a wrong direction to go in. First of all, we think it is important to be close to a tax office in many places. Take, for example: My own county, Hedmark. Trysil is a typical place with a lot of guest workers, and it's wise to have ID control nearby, so they don't travel far. It makes it easier for employers and makes it easier to have an orderly and proper working life. It performs important functions, especially where there is a lot of temporary labour in Norway. There are also important jobs for the community. What we have to think about in the public sector is that decentralised jobs create a more varied working environment and make it easier for people to move there and live there, and that it is easier for other companies to get skilled labour because there are jobs for both. We can't do what the government does now, think of each state or public entity separately, and not look at the overall social impact. The overall social impact is very high when centralising jobs from Nav, when centralising jobs from the tax administration, when centralising jobs from the labour force offices, and when reducing local hospitals and centralising services and jobs from there. In sum, it gives you a different social development, and you can only cross the Swedish border and see what social development it will be. Then we get another country where everything of growth and power is to be concentrated around the largest cities, and the rest of the country is gradually depopulated. There has been no successful policy for Sweden, and there will be no successful policy for Norway. Norway must not become Sweden. We have pursued a much more sensible policy, which has led us to develop the whole country. There should be changes, but the violent centralization that is now taking place within the tax haven, we believe is unwise. It leads to the centralisation of local communities and offers less to local entrepreneurs and the local environment. It is a pity that no more in the Grand Duchy are more concerned about the centralisation of this reform. I hope that more than Christian People's Party, when it comes to the matter, will vote against the reform. For this is not a good reform, it is not a thoughtful reform, and it leads to a worse offer. In Norway, we have very high confidence in the tax haven. It's a big capital that we have confidence between citizens and taxes, and the proximity to these services in the community is part of what makes us have a high trust relationship, and we should develop it further. I take up our suggestions in the matter and hope that more parties, when it comes to the matter, see that it is wise to see the whole country, not just the Oslo Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e679	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e685	Now, the debate on the effusion is not the place of the great battle over the state of the Norwegian economy and whether economic policy is working or not. It is and must be a technical adjustment. But the ageing gives the Storting important information about how the year has actually evolved, and whether the assumptions we made when we dealt with the budget a year ago have been met. There has been a long time since lighting in the economy. When we dealt with the 2017 budget a few weeks ago, we could for example: read in the Yellow Book that growth in the Norwegian economy seems to be on the way up again, supported by a powerful economic policy. We could read similar passports when we processed the 2016 budget just over a year ago. We have heard on several occasions since then – and in and of course in the past as well – both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister assure that economic policy is strong, that the end of unemployment is soon reached, and that better times are coming. When I spend some time on this initially, it's because we've got a new age for treatment where income from taxes and taxes is adjusted down by 15 billion. kr for mainland Norway, where the transfer to the State pension fund abroad, SPU, is reduced by 82 billion. kr, where the transfer from SPU is proposed to increase by 3.5 billion. kr, where the oil-corrected deficit increases, and where the underlying expenditure growth increases, compared to the figures on which we dealt with the budget last year. Those estimates were simply too optimistic. Now when we're on our way into a new fiscal year where it's assumed that we're going into a growth of 1.7 pst. for mainland Norway, and where it is foreseen that the most important growth contributions, in addition to private consumption, will come from exports and business investments, we must at least spend some time reflecting around it. What worries me is that there's little in the numbers that now indicates that there's some big growth in exports. Growth in goods and services exports of 4.3 pst has been taken into account. But if we look at the last year from November 2015 to November 2016, the export has actually fallen by 1.8 pst. Industrial production continues to fall and business investment is low. This is no attempt at black paint or to talk Norway down. It's more of an expression of real concern now that we're at a crossroads and we see that the fasitium for the current year became more gloomy than we assumed, and where it's based on an assessment of how the main growth drivers are actually developing now, there's a reason to at least ask whether there's a real risk that we'll see the same type of fasit when we get to the new age next year. Then we have to take the big debate on what it means for economic policy, later on. There's no room for that today. But as the representative Fleet started a little bit here, in this context it is worth mentioning the comments related to Innst. 5 S, like the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are united, and where we express deep scepticism that more and more oil money is being used to cover current expenditure on the State budget. This is not about cyclical policies, but about one in seven dollars spent in the budget being taken from the SPU, and that current expenditure is largely covered. The situation is fundamentally different now than it was in 2008-2009 with the financial crisis. It surprises me a bit that the representative fleet has such an easy analysis. It is clear that when oil money consumption gradually accounts for so much of the budget and covers current expenditure, we are also vulnerable to possible misalignment by the economy and the reduction of competitive industry. Finally, I would like to briefly mention the issue of the tax office structure. It has been the Labour Party's attitude over many years, even while we were in government, that the location of tax offices is a task of the government. We still believe that. We do not think it is appropriate for the plenary session to decide where tax offices should be located. But that doesn't mean we don't care what principles to base when the government makes these kind of assessments. Of course, building good trade unions, having an effective structure, is very important, but it is also essential to take account of the fact that Norway is a long-term country. The geographical distances are many places large, and it has been important for us to put in place notes that real travel distances must be part of the assessment. I expect the government to remember that. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e706	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e711	This is the last day of the year, and I think what can be said about the budget has been said, so I don't intend to spend much time on this. I registered, as the representative Fleet, that the Workers' Party has a lot of comments on oil money usage, but I imagine that this is a discussion and debate that we will continue too fully in the coming year. It'll be a long year of campaigning, and this theme will probably be very central. I just want to mention that in the period of the red-greens, the use of oil doubled from 69.8 billion. NOK 136,6 billion kr. In that period, we did not get any necessary reforms going, no necessary steps to do anything for a change that we then had to come. We felt that there was an increased maintenance maintenance run both on the road and on the railways and on public buildings. This is something that this government has done something about, so our increase in oil money consumption is in line with what was the premise when the action rule was introduced in 2001. We spend more money on knowledge, on research, on tax relief and on reducing maintenance efforts, among other things. road and rail. But I expect us to continue next year with this kind of debate, so I'm not going to draw this out any more. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good work in the year that has taken place. We have put in place a tax reform such as: shall reduce company tax and the tax on persons to 23 p.m. by 2018. After a few extra rounds, we managed to get a government budget for 2017. I wish the Committee members and employees a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, and we will meet again in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e724	I am sure the representative Steffensen thought it was the last meeting in the storeroom this year – and not the last day of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e729	That was an important clarification, for many of us have intended to enjoy the last days of the year! I am not going to repeat the budget debate, so I am actually only going to make a explanation of vote on Document 8:119 S for 2015-2016, the proposal from the Central Party. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 3 mainly and will support proposal No. 1 second, like I'm counting on the vote, will be added up. The reason is that we've fought hard to move out jobs, and this has to be seen in that whole thing. But just so it's said: I heard the representative from the Center Party's flaming posts for tax offices, but it's important to have some history, sail if the Center Party has left the hall. Because in 2011, the central party in government dropped 48 tax offices, in 2012 they proposed to shut down 70, but because there was so much trouble, only 55 were put down. So then there's not a hundred and one out, but a hundred and three out for the one who's trying to argue that these are reforms you're against. We must be part of and renew the welfare state at all times. We have to be involved and renew our structure at all times, and we have to be involved in change. It is a change for which the Central Party is in government and opposed to opposition, on every occasion. So if you don't want to meet the sea in the door, it's a good plan to get jobs out around the country, but that doesn't mean you're not going to change anything in the public sector. Nor did the Senterpartiet mean it when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e740	I very much appreciate the rhetorical abilities of the representative Skei Grande, but when it comes to meeting himself at the door, I will – without playing up the debate of the time – remember that the Left has recently saved the government, again, and is rewarded according to the rumors with Per-Willy Amundsen as the new Council of States. Then everyone can reflect a little bit on it on their own. I was actually just going to notify that SV votes for the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1 in the Input. 5 S for 2016-2017, and if necessary, I will address the proposals we are included in the Innst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I would like to stress that the efficiency of digitisation and new technologies in state agencies should be used to provide better provision for citizens and not to centralise and streamline for savings alone. I would like to add that we in SV do not fully understand the appropriateness of building up the tax haven around the country, giving that attention, for example. labour-life crime now appears to be gaining momentum in public vocabulary. I also notice that in a few years' time right has become a party that not only defends, but enthusiastically defends, a completely explosive increase in the use of oil money. It must be a tip of the hat – as it is called in good Norwegian – to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, whom I would also like to wish Christmas. I would also like to wish Christmas to the Committee, to the President and to the General Secretariat and thank you for not always as good cooperation, so at least a very pleasant one, throughout 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e751	Let me also take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Finance Committee and the Stortinget a really good Christmas, and not least thank you for good and constructive cooperation over a demanding year. First of all, a few words about the budget for 2016: we are discussing this budget for the third time. We are at the end of the year, and the ageing is primarily a technical review of the budget. It is not a station to make major new investments or to change the financial policy mechanism. On the other hand, there is an opportunity to reflect on budgetary policy over the past year, and when we look back now, there is clear evidence that policy is working. The Norwegian economy is improving. Together with record low interest rates and enhanced competitiveness, active fiscal policies are an important reason for increasing activity in the mainland economy and for prospects for higher growth in the future. So a few words about a new office structure in the Treasury. The tax haven has a very important social mission. The budget shall ensure that taxes and charges are properly determined and paid. That work ensures revenue, which is the very basis of public activity. Once the government has made changes to the tax haven's office structure, it is to ensure that the agency is able to solve its societal mission in a good and effective way in the future. The new office structure of the Tax Agency is well-founded and adequately established. It is not necessary for the government to bring the matter before the Stortinget. The government budget for 2017 briefed that the Tax Directorate was authorised to implement a new office structure, and that was done in exactly the same way for the sake of order in 2011, when the Central Party itself put in office and authorised the Tax Directorate to deposit 121 offices in the Tax Agency. The establishment itself believes that today's structure is not adapted to the needs of the establishment. The budget is clear that the competence of many and small trade unions is at present spread and that resources should be made available differently from today. Digitisation of tax havens services, including: the tax return has significantly reduced the need for personal presence at tax offices. The number of contacts to offices across barriers has almost halved in the last four years, and the department's response is now largely independent of geography. The establishment has thus been very clear that its competence should be brought together in fewer and larger professional environments, which will give greater impact in key areas of economic crime, labour market crime and identity management. Larger units will also provide more non-discrimination and legal certainty for taxpayers. For this reason, the government has chosen to pay great attention to the professional assessments. I notice that there are some nuanced positions related to this among the parties on the Stortinget. I also notice that there is a majority in favour of this being implemented. I have a great deal of understanding that there is a local desire to keep state jobs. However, the government has a responsibility for the organisation of central government in a way that provides good and efficient response for the country as a whole, and I believe that the new structure balances different concerns in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e771	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to wish the Minister of Finance a very good Christmas. I am absolutely sure that she also appreciates that there are some quieter days to come. Over several years we have been accustomed to creative ways of covering these similarities with the budget proposals of this government, and subsequent budgetary negotiations and budgetary settlements. We have had bag fees, air passenger charges, pushing projects and various other creative crank jumps to finance the comparisons. What has been a more general concern that we have raised is the tendency to finance long-term expenditure with one-off incomes. This year, we have received a whole new grant for the range of creative detection methods, and that is to get money out of the ejaculation – 100 million. kr – to help finance the settlement. I would simply like to ask: is there a procedure that the Minister of Finance would recommend that the Storting should use – on a general basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e778	On a general basis, I would like to say that the government and the cooperation parties have a responsible economic policy. We have done so at a time of considerable challenges for the Norwegian economy. There have been two incidents in very few years that have seized large areas of action. One was the wave of migration that hit Europe, which we had to deal with in cash last autumn. There has been a successful political management of the government and the bulk of the population. The second is the largest oil-priced Norwegian economy has experienced in 30 years, with subsequent unemployment and many people feeling upset. The government has also met, together with the cooperation parties, with a package of measures that are consistent with the industries and parts of the country that are particularly affected. In addition, we have put considerable emphasis, and used a significant part of the space for action, on the transition challenges facing the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e783	I have great respect for the fact that both the refugee crisis and the fall in oil prices have been major challenges for the government – and for the Stortinge as a plenary, in and separately. But neither the refugee crisis nor the oil price drop was new in 2016. These are the challenges we've taken with us, and we have to assume that the government has planned for. So I'm repeating what was my original question: I'm just wondering if the Minister of Finance thinks it's a good idea that the Stortinget establishes as a practice to get money out of the new age to finance parts of next year's budget, thus enhancing the tendency for long-term and permanent expenditure to be financed with short-term revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e788	I do not agree with Mr Marthinsen's alleged concern about this. I may also recall that events that occurred both in 2014 and late autumn 2015, where the migration wave really hit Norway, of course also characterises the Norwegian economy by the end of 2016. Everything else would be alarming, and I expect that the Workers' Party will also take into account when assessing the whole of the economy. But all in all, I believe that the budget for 2016 has been well managed. We now see that optimism is coming back. The economy reports greater optimism, as do households. It's a pleasure. It's too early to blow up the challenges we're facing, but it's going in the right direction, and I'm very pleased with that by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e796	Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has been the Council of State in the most centralizing government of the time. We have seen that in hospitals, police, hubs and municipalities, people want centralisation and believe in greatness in all areas of society. Now it is the tax rate that is not large enough – 500 jobs need to be centralised away from large and small places. According to the government, Norway wants to become a better country with all the centralisation. Does the Council of State Siv Jensen see that the sum of centralisation can change Norway in a negative direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e801	There's only one challenge with the claim of Battle Violence Vedum, and that's that it's wrong. The government has not implemented centralisation reforms. The government has implemented efficiency reforms to make better use of taxpayers’ money, as well as when we are now making changes to the tax haven’s office structure. I'm just going to remind the representative of the Battle of Vedum that the government he himself put in proposed to reduce the number of tax offices by over a hundred back in 2011. Then it was obviously necessary, with the eyes of the Center Party. Now you call it centralization. So that's not right. The new structure means that some jobs are moved, but not to Oslo. It's not about centralisation. It is an establishment which must be present in areas with high economic activity, an establishment which must be able to attract the right skills and which must build up large and solid professional environments in order to combat labour crime and economic crime to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e809	We have seen the experience of the same reforms in Denmark. They have had one major efficiency gain with the municipal reform, and that is that they have closed down homes. Health sector size has been the highest efficiency gain, according to the Folketing. Such a society does not want us to have, but it obviously wants the Progress Party. It's a wrong road, it's an unwise road. My question is: doesn't Siv Jensen see as the State Council that there may be some challenges with the sum of centralizing measures in terms of police, Nav, tax office, hospital and municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e814	Again, the claim is wrong. Centralisation reforms have not been implemented, but reforms to ensure better services for citizens where they live. I understand that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, is most concerned with the number of offices. I'm most concerned with problem solving. It has been an important premise for the police reform to get more policemen out where people live and need services. Violence Vedum is concerned about where the offices are located. I think it's the wrong focus. I don't think it's relevant to compare it with Denmark, or with Denmark's zeal to lay down a nursing home. This Minister of Finance is concerned about the opposite – to facilitate a good and solid local economy so that better care and care can be developed around all municipalities in the coming years. The needs are going to increase. It's about having enough sick places, but it's probably so much about having good services, so that the country's older people can stay at home as far as possible and feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e821	Today, the Stortinget agrees with the Progress Party's plan to centralise the Skatetaten with 500 jobs. The government has long announced that a certain number of jobs should be moved out. Will it be less than or more than the 500?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e826	Again, the claim is wrong. This is not a proposal to centralise the tax haven. It is a proposal to make the tax haven more powerful at a time when the challenges are different than a few years ago. We are therefore in a situation where we have had many debates in this Chamber, where we have discussed the need for stronger units to combat labour-life crime, in order to address the fight against economic crime. It's a mission that the Tax Agency takes very seriously. When, on a professional basis, they themselves believe that this is the prerequisite for making that job better, doing those tasks better and increasing the security of Norwegian society wherever you live, I think you should listen to the professional advice and equip the establishment with a structure that creates powerful, large, good professional environments that help fight economic crime. I thought that there was also something the Center Party was concerned about, but it is not so easy to see what the Center Party really believes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e831	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e838	The working day of those working in tax offices around the country is changing. The number of visitors to tax offices has almost halved in the last four years, and digitisation of the etatate services means that the problem resolution is more independent of geography than before. The tax administration is doing a huge and important job in a reality that is becoming increasingly complex, and which imposes strict requirements on competence and cooperation across different levels, as well as internally within the tax system itself. Work related to economic crime, labour crime, identity management and an increasingly globalised economy is demanding. The sum of these, challenges and expectations, makes it clear that the Tax Administration itself has assessed that the current office structure has not been adapted to the needs of the establishment and the requirements required to perform the tasks in a good and effective way in the years to come. They want resources to be brought together to a greater extent in larger professional environments with a presence in areas with high activity and the ability to build good and flexible environments of competence. This approach is supported by the right. The importance of both competence and cooperation across departments is evident, among other things. in the new anti-crime centres established in recent years, with representatives from the tax administration, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the Nav, providing good results. The budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties also provided additional resources to new such centres. I am pleased that the Tax Administration in its own recommendation on new office structures has taken into account both a regional distribution of jobs, and not least that one continues and further develops adapted information and outreach services for user groups who need this. I am pleased that a majority support the government's policy in this area and support the government's recommendation to base the Tax Agency's own proposal, with the addition of four offices in Askim, Otta, Sandefjord and Gjøvik. The proposal from the Central Party proposes that this matter be brought before the Stortinget for consideration. This is a strange proposal and would in that case break with what the Centre itself did as part of the government of Stoltenberg II in connection with the 2011 State Budget, where the Tax Directorate was authorised to deposit a total of 121 office units in the Tax Agency. There may not be a standard for the centre lot in position and another standard for the centre lot in opposition. I am therefore pleased that the majority is in favour of attaching this proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e855	Although I am a relatively large consumer of the Tax Administration's services, I actually see that it is possible to change the office structure without going beyond the offer to the users. Nor do I believe that we who have seats in this room are those who have the best assumptions to assess where the individual office should be. But in spite of this, like the representative Marianne Marthinsen, I would like to stress the importance of the majority comment, that the Tax Act takes into account the real travel distances when defining the office structure. Then for the first time and – I promise – I will take the opportunity to send a Christmas greeting home, more specifically to Brønnøysund. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to take a little extra round with the Skatetaten, linked to the office structure in Helgeland. So there's still a lot of people looking for tax offices, and with real travel distances, there's a really big difference between putting the ruler on a map versus driving a car, and often a lot of ferries. Nor do I ignore the fact that there are similar examples elsewhere in the country. In the end, I cordially join all wishes for a good Christmas to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e866	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3-5. Case No. 6–20 concerns the second processing of legal acts. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e1041	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e1590	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e1633	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mrs Marthinsen on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to reverse the practice of budgeting the social security scheme, so that usual practice of disbursing funds for the costs of next year's social security settlements can be mastered. 2309 Random expenditure under the Ministry of Finance will also be resumed, and the government will make its own proposal to the Government on social security.’ [[yielding item]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4818	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4834	So let's do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4850	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to refer the matter to the Government on the reorganisation of the tax haven’s office structure for Stortinget.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4878	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with an analysis showing the social consequences of centralising 564 public jobs in District Norway, and a presentation of how the proposed reorganisation harmonizes with the government’s announced strategy for the relocation of state jobs.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4897	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to re-assess the number of government tax offices on the basis of overall regional policy assessments and the importance of State employment in this context.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e4932	During the debate there is a proposal from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e7765	Case No. 6 to 20 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 34 to 48. There are no proposals for comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted during the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-20.ana.ud341e7782	There is no record. As this is the last big meeting in 2016, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for the job that has been done this autumn. The President would like to see all the representatives, the members of the government, the staff, the press and everyone else working for the Stortinget, a happy Christmas and a peaceful new year. Turn the Christmas to rest and joy; here it will be enough to take hold over Christmas. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. Merry Christmas, everybody! - The meeting's been cancelled.
