ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e43	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e51	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Abid Q. Raja, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the privacy of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e56	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e59	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Iselin Nybø and myself, I am delighted to propose representatives to change the school leisure system into an active leisure system and to strengthen the quality of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e64	The representative Per Rune Henriksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e67	On behalf of the representatives of Jette F. Christensen, Magne Rommetveit, Ruth Grung and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to analyse the possibilities of carrying out road and rail construction between Voss and Arna.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e72	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e75	I have the honour to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Magne Rommetveit, Terje Breivik, Geir Tuskedal, Audun Lysbakken, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself to secure all the elephants in the base school for training on their main goal. Then I have a representative proposal on behalf of Hage Haukeland Liadal, Sonja Mandt, Per Olaf Lundtigen and myself to restore the support system for private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e83	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e86	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Hadia Tajik, Trond Giske, Arild Grande, Sonja Mandt, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Eirin Sund and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for a new action plan for LHBTI.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e91	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e94	There are many active representatives before the summer. I would like to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Geir Pollestad, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself on the planned centralisation of the tax haven's office structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e99	The representative of Irene Johansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e102	I want to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the big business representatives Tore Hagebakken, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Else-May Botten, Rigmor Aasrud and myself on the need for regulation of companies that are part of the sharing economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e107	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e110	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to close debt traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e115	The representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e118	It is good that it is soon to be a vacation! On behalf of the representatives Snorre Serigstad Valen, Tore Hagebakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Odd Omland and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a new Norwegian space strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e123	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e127	On behalf of the representative Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on new objectives for social development. And on behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to make a new campus for NTNU a spearhead for sustainability solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e134	The representative, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e137	In this representative proposal-bonanza, on behalf of a crazy lot of people, first of all Audun Lysbakken and myself, I want to promote a representative proposal on electrification of Skarfjell. And then I would like to propose a representative proposal on behalf of Kirsti Bergstø and myself on demands for electrification of the Johan Castberg field, landing to Finnmark and the investigation of power cable to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e144	This isn't a bonanza. This is fear that we will not get anything to do for the autumn! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e147	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e150	On behalf of the representatives Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to open the sea for juvenile fisheries all year round. And on behalf of the representatives Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the long-term and security of tourist fishing. And I ask that the proposals be treated in an ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e157	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e171	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e185	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e188	I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e193	Then we give the floor to Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e196	It seems that the electronic system did not work as well today. I won't say that much. This case is about an increase, or a regulation, of the remuneration of outlawed compulsory ratings. The State has concluded two main tariff agreements in the period 2016-2018, one with the Academics and one with the LO State, the Union and the YS State, and this proposal for regulation is therefore based on the outcome of the wage settlement between the State and the LO State, the Union and the YS State. With this case, the State provides a larger general supplement to the guardians than they would have with the Academics. On the basis of the wage bill for government employees, the remuneration of compulsory ratings is recommended to be increased by 1,2 pst. in addition to that as of 1 July 2016, the additional expenditure is increasing by 6,2 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e203	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e217	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six lines be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines be opened with replies from the parliamentary leaders of the parties – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e230	I think many in this country too were affected by the events that took place in Great Britain yesterday with the killing of a prominent Labour politician, Jo Cox. It may say something about a climate that develops in the political debate in many countries, which may have an impact on the relationship between politicians and citizens. That's why, on a day like this, there's perhaps reason to remember what climate we have here in the country, and that there's good reason to work together to maintain the good tradition of propriety in political change. I am convinced that it has effect beyond this very hall, also between those chosen here, and those who choose us. So to the matter itself. It is in a situation of high, Norwegian unemployment — in an international context it is not so high, but in our context it is nevertheless a high level of unemployment — the revised national budget has been presented. The government has used both in the ordinary budget and in the audit of the budget the possibilities, in my opinion, to stimulate the economy within a responsible framework, so that unemployment can be reduced and increased. In the ordinary budget, there was an action package of about 4 billion. kr. This additional budget or revised budget further strengthens it by the government, and it is again strengthened in the negotiations between the four parties, which have provided additional incentives for more people to work. It has been the main objective No. 1st@item: inlistbox I am pleased with the good cooperation that the four parties have had, which has resulted in an increase in the maintenance grant to areas of the country that are particularly affected by increased unemployment. What was from the government was here 250 million. D to the area in particular in the South and West. This has increased by 150 million. kr in the adjustment and in the negotiated result, so that the total is now 400 mill. kr. In addition, once again, but very important, we have increased the apprentice's grant. Getting young people out of work and that there are apprenticeship places for those who need it is of great importance. I find reason to recall that this majority has increased this so that the total increase is 17 500 kroner per apprenticeship contract, while before this majority had budgets in place, it stood still. There are also new places of study, both specifically for the South and the West and elsewhere in the country when it comes to the field of ICT and health. We also strengthen the SIVA and the environmental technology system in the agreement that lies here. It also implies the possibility of a shift in the economy, and is also a good follow-up to a green profile that was in the original budget. So a few words in this short time I have, to say something about a couple of things: we've got a solution to what I have to call a crooked case, in terms of VAT reimbursement to independent schools that have boarding school, and schools that have adult students without the right to secondary education. I am very pleased about that, but I would also like to ask the Council of State to note it – I would say – quite clearly the criticism of the tax authorities in the position. I am also very pleased that in this city, in Oslo, we are now getting a new teacher's high school, a private teacher's high school, 70 years after the previous private teacher's high school was actually – you almost have to say it – forced by the state that time. This will provide a broader study offer in this city, and it will also provide a solid platform for a private college, not least in a situation where the whole sector is in significant transition. I thank the Committee for the good work and also use the opportunity to thank for the cooperation with our Council of States, I get to call it in this context. Finally, I recommend the setting and take up the loose proposal No. 61 on behalf of the Committee, which then corrects a few-three errors in the wording so that it becomes completely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e247	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e252	I have noticed that the Christian People's Party has the same zeal as the Workers' Party after meeting the increasing unemployment. The representative of the Seven knows – and I've heard him refer to it before – that both the Rogaland counties and the Agderfylken had ready-made projects for a total of 5 billion. kr. Before the Christian People's Party went into negotiations, they were very clear and demanded measures of a total of 1.5 billion. kr, but when the negotiations were over, one unfortunately saw that the ambitions were reduced to 150 million. kr. I spoke to the rapporteur in Sandnes this week. He gets a couple million extras to clean up schools, but at the same time he probably has to cancel teachers because of the tight community economy. Is the representative of the Syversen now satisfied with the extent of meeting the increasing unemployment, of which the Christian People's Party is so concerned? Can he also say something about who in the negotiations was the big brake on getting those proposals? One of them had a lot of good suggestions that one did not get through for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e259	When we talk about a billion and a half, it was before the government had at all presented its package of measures in revised form. It was up to 1 billion. NOK, and it had a device we were very pleased with, and that was in line with what we had recommended. So through this reconciliation, we've increased the amount further, so that we're actually not that far from the one and a half billion that the Christian People's Party recommended. Then you can probably say ‘even more, even more’, but I now notice that there are reports from these areas that point to lighting, that the measures work. And remember, there was a stimulus in the original budget in terms of both that region and overall, of 4 billion. kr. In terms of local economy, I think the figures can be seen that Norwegian municipalities have not had a better operating result than they had for 2015, in very, very many years. So it's a tight community economy, I can't be a part of being a fascist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e264	I've also noticed the trends that Syversen is talking about, that the increase in unemployment is stabilizing, but I want to remind you that it's still a record number. The underlying trend that may worry me the most is the increasing youth unemployment, which I have also seen that the Christian People's Party is concerned about. The figures say that as many as 74 000 young people are now out of work, that youth unemployment in Norway is increasing to levels we have only seen downwards in Europe. Again, the efforts of the government are quite bleak. The Christian People's Party went into the negotiations with demands for more clear action. One has received some adjustments to the apprentice grant. There are 400 new places to study. But when you know the extent and not least the increase, the long-term trend in youth unemployment, is the Christian People's Party also concerned about that development and agree that the efforts of the government in this area are too poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e269	Unemployment among young people has been one of the most important areas of work. I also understand that the government believes so. That is why there is a strong commitment to education, and I am also quite sure that the Minister of Labour has given his clear messages to Nav. We will support the need to work especially with youth unemployment. It may have been a run-in of praise from the representative Tvedt Solberg when he said that something had been done on the apprentice grant – something more I might not expect the Workers' Party to allow itself in that direction. But then it must be a paradox for the Workers' Party to see what these four parties have done in terms of the apprenticeship grant, 17 500 kroner per contract since the last election, so it was silent under the previous government, because you actually had a very good opportunity to do something about it. I also believe that the Labour Party in its pay chamber agrees that we have got quite a lot in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e274	Former Pedestrian Odd Holten is actually considered one of Rygge’s most important support players, and it was one of his victories when he was at Stortinget. Current representative Line Henriette Hemdal said in the context of the revised national budget that she wanted to go a new round of the air passenger fee when she saw the consequences it had for, among other things. Rygge. There has been a very large game about the airline passenger fee, and I see from the media that the Christian People's Party wanted to take a new round on it, but that the Progress Party and the Right did not want it. Is that the right picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e281	We have a budget that has been adopted, and that means that all four parties must agree on changes to that budget if that is to happen. I have no further comment on that. With regard to Smoking in particular, I would like to refer the representative of the Battle of Vedum to the comment, which is quite extensive, from the four parties linked to Rygge. I think that long-term so would and will Smoke depend on another actor than Ryanair if that airport is to survive. Here is probably the question of who has used the occasion for what, more relevant. No one is in any doubt that the airline has chosen to lower the base, which does not have much to do with the air passenger fee, and chooses to add new routes to other airports with the same air passenger fee. Maybe it's more right to ask them why they've done what they've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e288	The seven is a man formed, and I understand that he is careful about what he says about his collaborations here in the staging room, but we can all read the newspaper and see what he said there. I understand that there have been some tough rounds around it that the Christian People's Party wanted to make some improvements that they did not get to the Advance Party, which has pressured to get that fee through. We have today made a loose proposal for action in the Mosse region. There are good measures in the revised national budget, but what we think is a paradox is that there are no measures in high-freedom municipalities outside the South and West. Could the Christian People's Party be positive to ask the government that one also in areas such as the The Mosses region adopts measures when unemployment is on the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e296	As can be seen from the comments made by the majority parties, the very situation in that region has been specifically addressed. Actually, it's well in line with the solution proposal, but we don't need to put it on our own note. It stands, and I also expect that the representative, Mr Vedum, can agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e301	There are signs of action against unemployment in the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Government Parties and the Left. It took a while for the action package on unemployment to really take place. Has the representative Syversen thought about what we could have done if we had previously started with large-scale measures to combat unemployment, and does the representative Syversen agree that the government has taken good time to see the seriousness of the South and West?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e306	It is always possible to ask when action should be taken and to what extent. I perceive that the government in its original draft budget so that this would be a demanding year in the Norwegian economy. There was even criticism of the use of budgetary policy for active purposes. I am now recording, both through the consultation we have had in the Committee on Budgets and through the alternative budgets of the other parties, that the criticism of the budgetary policy itself has been significantly silenced. I also take that as a signal that you see the importance of stimulating the economy in the current situation. You can always ask, "More?" Previously on A.J.A.E.? When would you be inserted? I think we have met quite well. You can always find someone who thinks you should have done more in the past, but basically I think we've acted in line with the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e315	I believe for some reason that very many parties on the Storting, including one of the cooperation parties, the Left, have been so critical of the expansive budgets over time, is that it prevents the possibility of counter-cyclical policies. Does not the representative Syversen agree that there would have been a greater room for action to combat unemployment if one had held more back on oil money earlier, when it was good times, so that one could expand more when there were bad times?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e320	It is an interesting issue that the representative addresses, because it is really about what we do in the long term to strengthen the Norwegian economy and thus strengthen Norwegian jobs and business, and what should be done in the short term to meet a particular economic situation. So I do not agree with those who use the long-term work as an argument for or against what is being done in the short term, because then the budgetary policy needs to be used to a greater extent regardless of whether or not one is doing so. on tax policy is thinking in the long term to see what we should do to get Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs well taken care of in the long term. The contradiction that I appreciate is tempting to draw up for both the representative Valen and others, I think is a contradiction that is actually a bit dangerous. If we both forget to think in the long term when we act in the short term, and later as it is in the opposite direction, I think we're actually on wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e330	First of all, I would like to join in the comments made by the chairman of the committee about the very tragic incident in England. When we considered the revised budget last year, the Labour Party expressed concern that unemployment in Norway had passed 4 pst. for the first time in ten years and that the government met this increase with passivity. The government's mantra was then that they followed the situation – and it was mostly with that. There's reason to ask if they actually did something when the situation went from bad to worse. Today, one year later, when we are dealing with the revised budget, it is in a situation where the vacancy is approaching 5 pst. 135 000 people are unemployed, and that is the highest number measured in Norway since the SSB presented quarterly figures for the first time in 1972. The employment rate is falling. As many as 72 000 young people under 30 are neither at work nor under education. Sustained competence, especially among the youngest, is worrying. Netly, no more jobs are created in the private sector. Three out of four new jobs this year have been created in central government. Under the Stoltenberg II government, there were about 72 pst. of jobs created outside the public sector. So far, it is mainly in the bureaucracy that employment growth has taken place. It is worth noting that the government once again goes to the pension fund to get more money. It's become the rule. And this year, last year, the growth estimate for the Norwegian economy is adjusted from the national budget to the revised national budget, while the underlying expenditure growth is increasing in addition to the national budget estimate. The growth of oil money with today’s government has been greater for three years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister than in the previous ten years. With the combination of the Right Tax Cut to the country's richest and the Economic Policy of the Progress Party, the government is setting a new speed record to make Norway more oil dependent. While the use of oil money increased by about 6.5 billion. SEK per year under Stoltenberg II, it now increases by 25 to 30 billion. kr per year with the Solberg Government. The government's own expert committee, which has reviewed the guidelines on the use of oil revenues, the Thøgersen Committee, opens up enough to deviate from normal in times of low economic downturn, as the rule of action also does. The problem arises, as Mr Thøgersen says, when the long-term trend in oil money consumption becomes too high. When the government explains the sky-high oil money use in the revised budget with a decline in the economy, it tells only half the truth at best. In the normal year 2014, the budget impulse was 0.7 pst., far above the Thagersen Committee's recommendation of 0.2 pst. This occurred before the oil price drop, before the refugee crisis, before the unemployment crisis. It describes the government's failure to control the use of oil money from day one. And this year, Siv Jensen became the first finance minister in history to take money out of the oil fund. There's going to be a withdrawal of 80 billion. kr in 2016. So what has the money been spent on? The Minister of Finance has stated on questions from the Workers' Party that the tax cuts so far amount to 21.3 billion. kr, while the fees have been increased by approximately 3,2 billion. kr. And then we have the toll collection, which for 2014–2016 sums up to 27.2 billion. kr. While the “most people” have received about five a day in tax cuts, the country’s richest has received NOK 2100 each on average per day, showing figures from the Ministry of Finance. So one must be able to say that the government has really delivered on the tax promises to the richest people in the country, while the majority of people have been smothered in tax cuts, increased taxes and increased toll costs. With today's government, the differences between people are increasing, unemployment is not taken seriously enough, and in a number of areas of society, there is a centralisation that is particularly daunting District Norway, unfortunately. In the revised budget, after a circus we have rarely seen the husband, there is a civil agreement to introduce an air passenger fee. The Progress Party, which must have proposed the fee in the budget negotiations last year, pushed out at last and demanded a rematch on its own fee, but eventually agreed to a sea. It is rather doubtful that the wing of the Progress Party in the matter has helped to make Norwegian business especially safe on the government's tax policy, especially when we have now freshened our mind about the bag charge last year. The Labour Party believes that the government spends too much money in total, but too little on combating the unemployment. When the government crushes the piggy pig to pay our children and grandchildren' pensions, we need to be able to ask the question: What is the money spent on, and what do we get again? We have repeatedly asked for calculations of how many jobs are created through tax cuts, without getting answers. Then the warning light had to light up, so we approached the Statistical Central Bureau and asked them to calculate the impact of different arrangements on financial policy. The recent analysis by the SSB shows that general tax cuts almost do not contribute to job creation. For the cost of generating one job through tax cuts, a given 15 jobs in the private sector could if one had invested in the public sector instead. In addition to being expensive, tax cuts are very effective in increasing differences and are similarly ineffective in achieving the goal of more jobs. Proper use of money could have kept the time off. Despite the lack of results, the government maintains that tax cuts should contribute to conversion and growth. The Labour Party believes that if we keep people working, we will be able to do much better with change. So the Labour Party has given priority to targeted measures against increasing unemployment, including: through a 75 pst. a larger package of measures than the government proposed in the 2016 budget and a total of 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities, so that they among other things. be able to make the necessary investments. Unfortunately, our proposals were voted down last autumn. With the negative developments we have seen in the labour market, we might have expected the government to take more effective measures than we see in the revised national budget. It didn't happen. Less than a tenth of increased use of money goes to such measures. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left confirms that the government's efforts are too weak, so we are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have gained something more. However, we are in the situation that we find that the package of measures, seagoing after those additions, is 2 billion. kr lower than last year's Labour Party proposal. We have found room both to support the extra measures of the conciliation and to propose far stronger instruments for increased activity, to get those who lose their jobs, quickly back into activity, for change and for creating new jobs. These measures amount to about 1.7 billion. in addition to the government's proposal. The working party proposes to reverse the air passenger charge and replace it with environmental taxes. The air passenger charge is far more effective at cutting district work places than at cutting emissions. It was adopted without knowledge of its consequences, and it will stand as a star example of poor political craftsmanship. We double the government's commitment to municipal maintenance in the southern and western states, we have a number of transport, construction and infrastructure projects in our arrangement, and we provide ferry services. These measures will undoubtedly have a rapid and direct positive impact on activity and jobs. Furthermore, the Workers' Party proposes about half a billion kroner for raising their skills and measures to get unemployed back to work. A large proportion of the high-ranking unemployed have a skills gap that needs to be filled in order to return to work. In addition to a comprehensive range of competences addressing these challenges, the Workers' Party proposes 1000 new study places, 300 specialised school places and 2000 action places. And we're proposing an improved law on permitting, which makes it easier for companies to keep employees for a transition period. The working party proposes about 300 million. to measures to create new jobs, including the strengthening of the eco-innovation scheme, the establishment of an accelerator programme with matching capital, regional development funds, own sea betting and means of conversion to South Varanger. Much effort must, of course, be channelled to the part of the country that is now heavily affected by unemployment. At the same time, the Labour Party is proposing increased appropriations and measures that are important for good development and innovation across the country. We use the whole country, and we think it's smart. With this, I address the Labour Party's proposals, both those that we are alone in, and those that we are together with others about. Proposal No. 60 will be taken up later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e376	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e381	The Labour Party has long voiced criticism of the government for spending too much oil money, and the representative Hagebakken also put great emphasis on it in his speech. But if you go through the Workers' Party's proposals for additions and cuts in this revised budget, you can see that oil money consumption will increase further if you follow the Labour Party's proposals. In addition, it's suggested to take 151 million. kr from the stock item, and 200 mill. kr from something they call State Consultancy. The latter appears to be a pure cheese pauper. Or can the Workers' Party tell which Consul Summits are not to be performed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e386	We believe that within such a large budget related to consulting, it must be possible to rationalise the use of money. But when it comes to the fact that we from the Workers' Party spend a few tens of millions of dollars, it's now that the use of oil money since the Solberg government took over has doubled – and then we're talking about nearly 100 billion. kr more, so there'll kind of be many more zeros behind. That's a pretty big difference, and then it's part of the story that for the current year we had initially 4 billion. NOK less in oil money, despite having 4 billion. kr more to the local government sector and 3 billion. more than the government to invest in employment measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e391	I registered that the representative Tore Hagebakken said that the piglet is crushed, i.e. that the oil fund is being emptied, or reduced. The oil fund was $4,174. kr on the first day this magnification was collected, in October 2013. Today it's between 7 and 100 billion. and 7200 B.C.E. kr. Is the Workers' Party really of the opinion that it is right to mention the piggy pig that broke when it has grown by over 1000 billion. kr a year? It seems to me that in that case it must have cracked because it has grown so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e399	It's like breaking a little bit with good manners to crush the piglet. I believe that it is indeed when you take money out of the fund for the first time. It's crushing the piglet. It should be quite far inside, and I think that the government should reflect on before going into attacks on other parties that – affordable, I would say – try to keep the line that the government partner of the Progress Party has had all along until the meeting of the Progress Party in government, that is, the Right, which has been the guarantor of a responsible economic policy, including a careful use of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e404	As far as I remember, last year's Labour Party came to the election campaign with what they thought was a necessary package to meet the vacancy, at 2.5 billion. kr. So the government came with its budget, which had 4 billion. in measures. Then we see in the revised now that the Workers' Party is very much in agreement with the arrangement for how the work to bring down the unemployment should happen, and that is well and good, absolutely. But when you also sit with the fasit, you add a few extra dollars, of course. Is it not a little strange that one probably a month and a half before the budget is presented, believes that 2.5 billion. kr is enough, and now the government criticises those who get a budget, for not having done enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e411	First of all, I want to commend the Seven for having done a little more. It must also be, as I was in the past, a sign that it was not completely excellently delivered from the government. We see that the situation is getting worse and that action needs to be strengthened. We are a dynamic party, follow developments closely and see that there is a need for more ‘cool’. If there is one area we click on with more ‘cool’, it is the job number one: work for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e416	We have been through a period of increasing unemployment in large parts of the country, not just in the South and West. It also affects other regions, for example: in the Mosse region, due to an unfair air passenger charge that is currently being pushed through by the Right Party and the Advance Party. Another change that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been at the head of, is to cut the commuter deductions, that those who have to go a long way to work, who have lost the job, get a tax return. Does the Labour Party think that it is wise in the future, when we see the increased unemployment, that there should still be tax incentives for commuters, or does the Workers' Party think it is wise not to have the kind of tax incentives that the Right Party and the Advance Party do for those who have to go far to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e423	I hope not the representative Battle Violence Vedum is the least in doubt that the Workers' Party there is crystal clear. There we agree, just like when taxing termination benefits. It's a way to punish people who have a bit of a tough challenge. There are many people who have to commute without wanting to commute, and that's why we've had the deduction scheme that we've had. But we're looking at the area by area that ordinary people get noticed that it's in the wallet, while those who have the most here in Norway get tax cuts in fines and buckets. The richest people, as I said in the main post, get $2,100 a day. The soul of my homelands is thought to be relatively much money, and there is the bonity good, Battle violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e428	The working party has good comments in today's setting on the use of oil, budgetary impulse and underlying expenditure growth, which Left fully supports. On that basis, we should believe that the Workers' Party presented a proprietary RNB scheme in line with these comments. That's not the case. Given that the tables on pages 25 and 26 of the main commentary on the Workers' Party are correct, the Labour Party uses approx. 170 million. kr more in oil money than the expansionary arrangement of the government. In addition, most of the additions from the Workers' Party are financed by increasing NSB dividends of almost half a billion dollars and by decreasing the miscellaneous item by 350 million dollars. kr. This comes at the top of income in the original budget of the Workers' Party, by 1.7 billion. DKK in taxes and levies on the financial industry and 3 billion. kr through changes in the interest rate delimitation rule, which, both, are totally unrealistic and impracticable. Ergo indirectly proposes a significantly larger use of oil than the government. How does the representative explain this logic – or the lack of logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e437	I believe that a should be quite good to see the lack of logic in our arrangement. There were many numbers from Breivik's side, but let me take the NSB, which was mentioned as an example. We're for what's happening to changes, updates and reorganisations in the NSB, but we're against the privatisation of the fragmentation that's there. So we have money that we can collect, that we can use. We could use 317 million. kr in additional transport investments, and there is a concrete alternative way of doing something. I believe that the budget we have sewn together is solid, compared to what we have seen from what the representative Breivik has also participated in – bag fee, air passenger fee and everything. Then some of it becomes a denominator as examples from our side, small money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e442	I find – with reference to what several others have said here – that the representative Hagebakken does not respond to the questions asked regarding the use of oil money. If you're going to believe the figures in the documents, there's no doubt that the Workers' Party's proposal means a further increase in the use of oil money than what's suggested, and it can't be the Tore Hagebakken talking away from it. But it was an interesting recording that came up now, about NSB. We see in the proposal that we should take 479 million. kr in increased dividends from the company, and no matter what you intend to spend that money for, there can be no doubt that it will weaken the soundness, strength and economic strength of the NSB. Is it so that the Workers' Party wants to weaken the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e449	We believe that the scheme for which the majority here in the Chamber is unfortunately, with fragmentation and privatisation, is what weakens the NSB. Otherwise, I have to say that when you're talking about there's a couple hundred million that we've apparently used like this, and that it ends up spending more oil money than others, I just have to remind you that this is revised budget. When we dealt with the original budget, we went from the jump edge by 4 billion. kr less in your pockets. So who spends the most oil money, there's no doubt about it -- it's the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e454	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e457	Let me share the participation of the two previous speakers in what has happened in the United Kingdom. We must be glad that so far we have a completely different political climate in our country. But the Norwegian economy is in a demanding period. The fall in oil prices has resulted in stagnation and job losses in the oil industry, particularly in the south and west. After the fall in oil prices, the first bid for government economic policy has been to keep employment up and unemployment down and to limit the disadvantages to those affected. It can only be done in the long term, by creating new profitable jobs and ensuring that existing jobs have the best possible framework conditions. That is what the government in the budget for 2016 is doing, and it is being followed up in the budget review that we are going to adopt this afternoon. The strong focus of the budget on investment in infrastructure, education, research and growth-promoting tax incentives will help to create more and more profitable jobs, which in turn can contribute to job creation, increase tax revenues and strengthen the foundations of the welfare society. In addition, the 4-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr in the budget for 2016, supplemented by what is now an increase of well over 1 billion after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. For 2016, kr – almost halfway – help to get people to work faster in the areas that are particularly affected. Then it is that the recession is not general for the whole of Norwegian industry. They're very divided. Something goes very well, helped by a weakened crown and not least a low interest rate, which makes investments in the profitable export industry very favorable right now. The availability of labour will also be better outside the oil belt than it has been in many years, when economic activity attracted a lot of skilled labour through high wage levels. Yesterday, the NHO economics survey showed a controlled and emerging optimism in Norwegian business. Financial policy works, was declared from there. In particular, the construction industry in the most affected areas appears to be well-trapped as a result of the package of measures. That's why I think a conditional optimism should be allowed in the situation we're in. It is also a good tool in itself, and it is therefore sometimes recommended, including here in the Stortinget. I was especially reminded of that when I heard the previous speaker's posts. The oil price has been on our way up from bulge levels of less than $30. Low interest rates have some problematic sides, but also since it's invested. Exports from mainland Norway are increasing, and the oil industry is not dead, we are fortunately not going to see that end. It will be more efficient, cut costs and develop technology, become more competitive, and Norwegian companies will win a job. Consumption and general demand keep up well with the situation, and of course the development of unemployment is not pleasant, but it's a little less dramatic than what we could fear. But of course it is particularly difficult for those affected. However, as mentioned, there are highlights in the large picture and expectations that the job market can improve in the affected areas as well. And it's only now, except this year, that the 2016 budget will gradually be stronger, and I believe that the revised national budget is a strong confirmation that the cooperation parties will keep the attention to the unemployment and to measures that can remedy it. Both the government’s proposals and the agreement have, in general and in small terms, focused on resource use that can help reduce acute unemployment and build on the long-term measures for work, activity and migration – briefly and successfully: show accountability in a demanding situation through extensions to the package of measures, which go to municipal maintenance, maintenance and investment in road and rail and public construction. And then you don't know how many jobs this will create, but there's no doubt that it will work quickly and forcefully into the economy. Then let us not forget that there is no revision of the budget alone that creates this. The budget for 2016 was very expansive and is very expansive, and I am not surprised that we are now seeing reports that the results can be along the way. This was done, of course, to absorb the growth of the Norwegian economy. The situation is such that it is necessary and appropriate to have such a financial policy facility now. We are not in an emergency situation, as many have compared this with the financial crisis. We are much more in a permanent, organic situation that affects our clearly most profitable industry. Therefore, comparisons with the financial crisis are not particularly relevant. Then the finance and the bank were hit all of a sudden. The lower growth rate in the Norwegian petroleum industry is a permanent structural change. This recognition must be followed by a fiscal policy that supports sustainable migration. The long-term answer is not a short-term measure or an extension of an already large public sector. Then, of course, I note that the opposition – I just heard it – criticises the expansion of the budget and the use of oil money. I see that, among other things, refers, in their comments, to what they call the ‘normal year 2014’ in the Norwegian economy. Let me then remind you that the so-called normal year was the year when the oil price fell by 50 pst. – so it was normal, compared to the golden years we have behind us. Therefore, the use of oil money used in the economy has been necessary. And most people agree that it is now well adapted in most economic environments. There are few, if any, critics of the expansivity of the budget in the professional economic circles. I hear – and read – that the Workers' Party is calling on the sample leader Thögersen in his outbursts of irresponsible oil money. The poet himself says, for example: on the use of oil money in the revised budget that, in crisis years, there is a tradition of significantly increasing money use from the original budget to the revised one, but this year, the actual increase is not much more than the 900 million targeted towards the crisis-affected West, and the remainder of the increases are largely changes in estimates and assumptions. His selection also stressed strongly the need to adapt the annual phase-in of oil revenues to the situation in the Norwegian economy. That's probably why the sampler speaks out like he does when he's asked about the current situation. It would actually be completely irresponsible to do something else. And I have to say, what other situations than a halving of the price level of oil, our most profitable industry, should we wait for to use this instrument? Nevertheless, we are far within the framework of the rule of action. And I have to say that I'm waiting with tension on the budgets that come, where the Workers' Party is going to apply for the 70-80 billion. kr that they think we have crushed the piggy bank and taken into the economy. I assume that they will rectify the budget that comes to the harvest. In the meantime, they have done nothing but triple the use and withdrawal from the external mail. It will be relatively puzzled in relation to the strong criticism we have heard here today. So I think the best thing we can leave to the next generations is not a manic number discussion about what you're spending on the budget, but that's how we use the revenues, so that we can lay the foundation for creating new jobs that the next generation can be part of. That's what they're going to live on in the years to come – from their work and their jobs, not from the returns of a fund. Therefore, it is a great responsibility to use oil money and the phase-in of oil revenue into the economy in the right way. It has to be used to provide measures that improve productivity growth and in this way, in the long term, affect the overall growth capacity of the economy. It's a very basic premise that we can maintain the welfare society that we have. Let me take the time as the red lamp shines, to thank in particular the Christian People's Party and the Left for working together on the budgets which, in my view, are getting better and better, with the committee leader Syversen and Terje Breivik from the Left. I think we're creating a climate to make ever better agreements, we're finding out more and more about each other. It has been a very pleasant development all the way, which I hope continues. At the end, I take up the proposal that we have with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e486	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e491	I listened with interest to the representative’s comments on, among others. piglets. My question is probably about a little bit more piggy handling. The working party is a party that wants to take responsibility whether we are in position or in opposition. That's why when we think it seems the country and it's a big deal, we like to make a deal with the other parties. It's the curtain that six parties before Christmas went to work to make a deal about, among other things. to gain control of borders. But when this was to be dealt with in the Storting, the ruling party went right and saw that the Progress Party was not just running a political game, but went quite far in undermining the reconciliation, quite deliberately. In other words, we experienced a prime minister who first said that the government was on the table, so let's not practice that offer, and then let's get overrun by the Progress Party. Even TV 2’s political commentator has said that the Prime Minister has shown himself in this matter as a weak leader of the government. My question is what Right himself thinks about his leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e498	What the Right likes about his prime minister and about leadership, I don't think there's any prize to guess what is. I think that in a very challenging political landscape, in a very challenging economic landscape, in the situation we are in with increasing unemployment and with failing employment, both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Government have shown good leadership. They've been offensive. They've taken the challenges. But I want to add that they have shown accountability in the dosages of the measures they put in. When it comes to the special matter that the representative Tajik raises, I think that many things in Stortinget – with the composition it has – get a lot of different final results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e503	It looked as if the representative Fleet was a little surprised that I took a line, but I pushed myself forward. First, thank you for the nice words in the article. We have discussed in these negotiations the behaviour of the tax authorities towards their customers. That's a pretty strong comment, I would say, that says something about what you should expect from the tax authorities in terms of predictability. We might call it legal certainty. In this particular case, which we have discussed, relating to VAT reimbursement to a large number of boarding schools, how will the representative describe the manner in which the tax authorities have acted in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e514	I don't want to describe how they have behaved in particular, because I don't know that in detail. But I know the matter well through the work we have done in the committee. What I fully agree with Hans Olav Syversen is that this case shows that legal certainty in general vis-à-vis the tax authorities is important. I've been on the finance committee for almost three periods. There have been a number of issues that have arisen, and have shown that we must never stop working on legal certainty, not only at the top level of politics, but also so that it propagates itself into the systems of those who are going to manage this. The matter to which the representative Syversen refers, I think, was a good example of exactly what we have been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e519	The centre batch proposes to cancel the aeroplane seat charge. The Right Party and the Progress Party say no to it. This is a fee that has very little environmental impact, costs jobs, leads to bureaucracy, one of our two large private airports is being laid down, and the fee breaks the government's own plan to turn the OSL into a hub for international flights. The Storting has said that people only have to pay one fee per trip even if it consists of several flights with different companies. There is currently no system at all to secure this. So my question is, what should a person who has been wrongly charged more taxes on a trip, contrary to the decision of the Storting, do? Will it, for example? be able to send a letter to the Ministry of Finance asking for the money back?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e526	My experience with both the Ministry of Finance and the tax authorities is that it is difficult just to send a letter without further notice and get a special amount of money back. But let me say that this fee is not otherwise called the fare. No matter how many individual parties have been against this charge here in Stortinget, it is called the airline passenger fee, and I think it is quite important to hold on to that. With regard to the arrangements for this, I am convinced that the airlines will be able to obtain through cooperation a collection that does not harm passengers unnecessarily. In addition, there is very great competition in air travel, in aviation, and I think we will see that in the long run, passengers will not have any particular disadvantages in this. I think air travel will take place – it is in the nature of the matter. This cost is just one of a lot of people. Some of them are also imposed by airlines and airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e533	Financial policy is one of the areas where the Right is reasonably close to the Left. Active use of taxes and taxes to create markets, change behaviour, and not least to house with the resources of the community secures the freedom of action of future generations. We have also had joint responsibility for the State budget every year, even setting up new records in oil money use. The fleet knows better than most people that it is difficult to negotiate the use of oil from the level set by the government in its proposal. As the largest government party, Right now has a new chance of bringing oil money to a more resilient level in the 2017 budget proposal, from today’s annual growth of 25-30 billion. kr to the proposal of the Thygersen Committee, to which the representative referred, at approx. 5-8 billion. kr. Has the representative Fleet agreed with the Left that it is urgent and that this chance should be used by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e540	Yes, we're going to have a responsible use of oil money. But we're also going to have an oil money usage that's adapted to the economic situation we're in. That's why I spent quite a lot of time in my post talking about the exact situation we're in, with a more than half an oil price, which makes us have to have an expansivity in the economy so we can solve the problems we're facing. How much more urgent it is to come back and reduce the use of oil money, I think it is difficult to say something about it without having seen in the crystal ball what will be the development of the Norwegian economy. I hear with joy now that there are signals that things are going better, but things can go worse too. If we get a manic numbering on what we're going to use, I think it's going to go beyond Norwegian business, and that's my main concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e545	This was a good defense speech from the fleet representative. I have to say that it is a little interesting to hear the spokesman for the leading government party in a budget debate first and foremost spend time on self-defense and attacking the opposition to their alternative arrangement instead of speaking offensively about what policy you actually intend to implement. But that may not be so strange, because the government has been in arrears every round of taking the right measures against unemployment. Instead, we received the usual lesson from the fleet representative that tax cuts will in the long term lead to better growth in the economy and create more jobs. Then I would like to ask the representative Fleet: How does he think it has gone so far? Or do we have to wait a long time for these jobs that come as a result of the government's tax cuts? Is it in 10, 20 or 30 years we'll see any effect of the record tax laws of the richest ones in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e550	We actually think that reduced taxes stimulate people to work, but also to invest. And then I see a lot of investigations are being made that this doesn't work. Some of the investigations I see that these investigative environments, having thought a little bit about them in their payroll chamber, go back on. I guess it was Menon who did it in his day. We stick to a slightly different, more empirical experience in that area. We go out and ask business what the problem is, and then they very often answer that we can create jobs, we can invest in jobs, but it's quite difficult when we in e.g. The kind of time we're up to now, we're going to pay a tax, call it a tax, on the money that's tied up in the company that we're going to develop on. I think to understand that well, you might have been very close to where this is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e560	I'm gonna lie away from the piggy. Now I'm going to turn the theme over to the rules of permacy. After an incredible amount of pressure, the government got involved in the day money for 52 weeks. When we now propose that one reduce the employer's period from 10 to 5 days, that we cut the new employer's period after 30 weeks, and that we increase the flexibility of partial leave down to 40 pst., at least the government parties are not included. What's with the permitting system that Right seems so infinitely difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e567	There is nothing difficult about the permitting mechanism. If you go back and see what the government has said about it, you have said that this is a system that you always have an eye on how to decorate – should you change it? If you go back a little bit in history, you'll see that the length has been increased, and that there have been different changes, all adapted to the situation you're up to. But the problem of the Labour Party is that they say that now we have this situation, it's like that, and then we're going to solve it with just this. But here we're also going to have to have a shift, we're going to have to have a flexibility that means you don't lock the workforce in. While there are now good news from Norwegian business that maybe things are going a little bit better, there are also some messages that I hear, which I was also in my post, that some industries that are now growing, which do not belong to those who are affected, say that now we actually get hold of the workforce. That's because there's a change of pace going on, there's a flexibility going on. It's also part of it all, it's also part of the government's assessment. Therefore, not every proposal from the Workers' Party is being slavishly followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e572	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e575	Let me also start by thanking the case rapporteur for the job that has been done with the revision, and not least join in what he said initially about the tragic situation in the United Kingdom, and how important it is that we do not go in that direction, but that we manage to have a good political climate and good debates, where we exchange different views in a normal way. The government's draft revised budget for 2016 is well anchored in the budget adopted by the majority of the Storting last autumn. The situation in the Norwegian economy provides stable and predictable framework conditions for stimulating value creation, investment in new jobs and employment growth in a situation where many industries are in a difficult transition. The main direction of the 2016 budget, with a focus on knowledge, research and infrastructure, is solid, while the action package is being increased to 5 billion. kr, which is targeted with even greater efforts to compensate for the unemployment in the South and West. The agreement of the parties to the cooperation agreement in the Stortinget on the revised budget reinforces the arrangements for the priority headings. Now we also see some positive signs in the Norwegian economy: the oil price has risen from the fuel levels in winter. Improving competitiveness and increasing public demand have contributed to greater activity in the economy. Higher orders are reported in April and May and NHO member companies report improvement in the market situation and prospects. The working party has recently paid NOK 50000 to get the SSB to produce a report showing that increasing public money use is more effective in reducing short-term unemployment than tax relief. It is not very surprising that direct public use of money, where the government buys goods and services in the market, has a faster effect than tax relief, and that is precisely why 5 billion are granted. for targeted actions. But there's no contradiction in this. We have to do both. Short-term measures to mitigate the negative impacts of economic transformation combined with increased public investment in maintenance and new infrastructure provide activity and create jobs. At the same time, we must think long-term and plan for the future. The Norwegian economy needs to be transformed because of the fall in oil prices and because oil demand can be lower in the longer term. Both the OECD and the tax committee have established that lower taxes are central to achieving the long-term transition we need. It goes without saying that the ability and willingness to invest in business is reduced if higher taxes are paid. This in turn will affect long-term employment. To claim that this is either public money or tax relief is to mix the cards. It's not either–or, it's both–and. But the effects are different. One affects the acute situation, the other promotes long-term growth and conversion. The broad consensus established in Stortinget with the support of the government’s proposal for tax reform confirms that the Progress Party has always argued that reducing corporate taxes and reducing wealth taxes are important for creating new jobs. Research, knowledge, education and tax incentives to promote investment in new jobs can also never be wrong, either in the short or long term. Norway now has less growth in the competitive business supplying to the oil sector. It is therefore necessary to facilitate new jobs and growth in other competitive enterprises. We don't get that if we just shift the employment from the oil industry to the public sector. New jobs in the private, competitive sector are also central to ensuring sustainable funding and a solid basis for long-term well-being. We need to use the room for action in budgetary policy to make working and investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable – not to blow up public consumption that future generations cannot finance. Economic policy responds well to the challenges faced by Norway. Historically, low interest rates provide help to the Norwegian economy, and a weaker exchange rate improves competitiveness and underpins the ability of industry to convert. Financial policy supports growth without risking the krone price. The budget adopted last autumn contained a series of measures to facilitate the transformation of the economy and contribute to growth. Tax levels are falling, and during three fiscal years taxes and levies are reduced by over 18 billion. Net kr. The Norwegian economy is characterised by the need for conversion and successful private sector conversion requires that there is also a willingness and ability to convert into the public sector. Therefore, government proposals for conversion processes and management reforms are important contributions to improving resource use, coordination and efficiency. A common objective of these reforms should be better use of resources, higher quality and better performance. The focus on results and not only the size of the appropriations has been low in Norwegian policy because Norway has experienced a great boom for a long time. Now the situation is different, and we are forced to become more critical of public schemes and the disposal of funds over public budgets. The Workers' Party is prejudicial to its traditional solutions to future challenges. With increased taxes and taxes, more public measures and more public expenditure, the country must be built. In its alternative budget for 2016, the Workers' Party proposed to increase taxes by approx. 10 B.C.E. And we see the same direction in their draft revised budget. It is contrary to clear signals from Norwegian companies that want a policy for better framework conditions, better infrastructure and increased competitiveness – not new, cost-effective taxes and public action. The Workers’ Party continues to criticise the government’s use of the State pension fund’s foreign earnings, even though it is clear within the action rule and not least in line with the intention of investing in knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax incentives. Now a new concept has also been introduced: it is apparently the piglet that is now being crushed. But we who grew up with a piggy pig from DnC or similar Norwegian banks – because they were mostly Norwegian at the time – know that regardless of the pig’s origin, there was no return on the money put on the pig. The only resources on the capital were either with hammers or with keys. Money in the bank or money invested, on the other hand, returns, and the same goes for SPU. The oil fund is not in a piggy. It would be very stupid to have over 7000 billion. kr in a piglet with no return. Instead, the money is invested in over 9,000 companies, bonds and properties around the world. It yields dividends, interest and rental income. The Labour Party's criticism is that we're taking out more of the fund than we're putting in new oil and gas revenues. It is really a fundamental criticism of the oil fund and the rule of action. The whole point of that construction is to distinguish between use and service. The rule of action says that we can use 4 pst over time. of what we have already saved in the fund, completely independent of current oil revenues. So we're going to use the interest income. the expected real return on the money invested and retains the real value of the fund for future generations. This year we take out 2.8 pst. by the fund, i.e. lower than the expected real return, and then we put on new oil and gas revenues. The Norwegian State is gradually moving from an oil country to a financial state, and the return from SPU’s foreign placements will this year exceed the country’s net cash flow from oil and gas. What is crucial for future generations is how we manage capital, and how we use the return to build and develop the country. In the end, I would just like to draw attention to a slight change in the comment text on page 99, on the reduction of the population grant to the county municipalities. A wrong amount has been entered by an incurrency. The appropriate amount in the notes on the accounts shall be 90 million. SEK, not 81 million. kr. That is also true in the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e614	An important bet from Limi’s party he didn’t talk much about is the airline passenger fee, a fee that was not investigated, and as it had been claimed by various government teams that it was something that absolutely had no significance, that it was just a fiscal fee, that it had great significance for the climate, and from other teams also that it was simply a settlement with Ryanair. The reality is that this is a charge that has had a significant negative impact on jobs in Rygge and districts, and in the air supply that the districts are now expecting. The government could choose to hold back on the tax cuts of those with absolutely the most in Norway, but they did not. Does the representative Limi think that most people in the country think it is more important that they get the most more money, rather than that we in the districts have a flight offer you can use for Spain, or other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e619	It is a bit alarming that the Workers' Party is still so very concerned with the air passenger fee, as they themselves have a national meeting decision and have in their programme that they will introduce a similar fee. As the representative of Wickholm knows, this became part of the 2016 budget agreement because it was a pressure to find solutions around fees that could contribute, among other things. a green shift. Let's just say that. So far there has been no situation either on Rygge or elsewhere, but it is clear that it can happen that you get a consequence especially on Rygge that is very unfortunate. Some will claim that it is because of the charge, others will probably see that it is because Rygge has become very dependent on one airline, which uses the opportunity to change its operations in Norway, not withdraw from Norway, and wherever they fly from or to, they will pay the same fee. I think it's about the whole for most people in the tax system that's being implemented. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e626	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e629	What is interesting here is that Limi asks why we are so busy with this flight passenger fee. I think he should go down to Eastfold and ask the thousand who might lose their job down there: why are you so busy with this fee, really? I don't know if he had been as tall and dark in that kind of discussion. The working party does not have this in its programme. It is simply not true, and it is good that Limi is not the Council of State, because otherwise he would be taken to provide the wrong information to the Stortinget. So Limi says that there has been a pressure to get money through taxes. Yes, the pressure has arisen because Limi has been so busy giving a lot of money to those who have absolutely the most. And then the question remains: Does he think most people think it's more important to give tax cuts to them with the most in Norway – or to introduce an unexplored airline passenger fee that has the consequences I've mentioned before?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e638	It is not wrong, at least, that the Workers' Party has a national meeting decision that they want to pay a similar fee. It doesn't really mean much to roll back to last fall, because I think Wickholm also knows what was going on in the negotiations to put in place a good budget for 2016. Then it is clear that there is no one, and at least not the Progress Party, who likes to have to increase taxes or introduce new taxes. It became a compromise, we got a good budget and kept the whole thing. But what the Workers' Party and Wickholm have to take over is that when the Workers' Party proposes to increase taxes by over 10 billion. NOK, someone's paying that bill. There are people who then get increased their expenses. The costs are passed on to the enterprises. If you increase fuel taxes, it is the transport industry that has to take most of that bill, so it has some consequences. That's why it's important to look at the whole thing, and we've, after all, reduced everything, overall, both on taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e647	In the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the government parties, there's a $40 million cut. kr called ‘Lawner costs of project E6 Kvänangsfjellet’. Going into the state budget and looking at what the post is really about is the name: cap. 1320, Statens vägvesen, item 34, Compensation for increased employer’s fee. Those who remember from a few years back will remember that in the autumn of 2014, after several months of hard pressure, the government finally arrived at the track with compensation because they had agreed to take the transport industry out of the main regional policy tool we have, the differentiated employer’s fee. The district industry, in particular the transport industry in North Norway, lost about half a billion dollars on the change. After a massive pressure from the Center Party, the government's compensation proposal finally reached over 300 million. kr. Does the Progress Party believe that it is sound enterprise policy to compensate the transport industry for one year, so as to cut the compensation once a year and a half has passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e655	The history description that the representative did is, at best, very misleading. The situation was that the red-green, and especially the centre party, had perhaps slept a little on guard, because they did not react to either the decision of the European Commission or ESA on restrictions in the differentiated employer tax system that we had in Norway. In fact, it was first the new government that contacted directly the European Commission and made adjustments, which at least led to a better outcome than the alternative, and then additional compensation was introduced to compensate for the industries that could no longer be under the old scheme. So to the thing that's revised, that's absolutely right, that's 40 million. kr. You can't compensate for costs that aren't there. It has not been said that this money will be lost, but for 2016 it was not necessary to compensate that much, and then it is 40 million. kr saved in the agreement agreed between the four lots.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e662	On September 5, 2013, Per Sandberg, who is in the hall, said to the Class Battle: ‘When we get into the Ministry of Finance, the first thing we do is tear down the wallpaper. Then we throw the furniture and go to Ikea to buy new ones. [[...]] Everything has to be replaced. I guarantee that people will notice if the Party of Advancement comes to government." I don't know if what people had in mind was the introduction of new taxes for the promotion of the environment. Sandberg was right, people were going to notice if the Progress Party came into government. If it was an airline passenger charge they had taken care of, I am more uncertain about it. Limi has got a lot of criticism for this fee here, so I thought I'd go the other way. I am pleased that the Progress Party has seen the light in government and introduced new environmental taxes. I was just going to take the opportunity to congratulate the Progress Party. It is almost as if SV would do it themselves, except that SV would take more into account the district impact of such a charge and differentiate between luxury consumption and people most of their needs for air travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e679	Thank you very much to Valen! I guess that's the last thing I needed right now. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e684	It is very important for a country to have control at its borders, and it is important that immigration policy is also controlled. The most effective measure we have seen in the last year to gain more control of immigration policy is the introduction of national border controls around Europe. It has been effective, and it was essential to have control at the borders. To the revised national budget, there is a proposal from the Central Party asking the government to take a further round with the European Commission to extend the possibility of national border control. Will the Progress Party vote in favour of proposals that allow the government to take initiatives towards the EU where the use of national border control can be extended, or will they vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e691	The Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposals that we have negotiated and agreed with our cooperation parties in Stortinget on. For there is a whole in this approach as well, even if it concerns the revised national budget. So it is not said that I do not agree with the intention of the Central Party in the proposal now referred to by the Battle of Vedum. It is clear that the government will continue to follow the situation, look at the need to extend border control into Norway and take the initiatives needed against the EU to make this happen. So I don't disagree with the content, but we choose to stand on the scheme that we have negotiated with our cooperation parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e698	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e701	I find it sad to note that the Progress Party will not vote for Norway to work actively for national border control in Europe in the future. Because it has been the most targeted and effective action to get control of immigration policy. And for a country, having control of its borders is crucial. We saw that last fall when the government did not have control – how much of the turmoil it created. After the pressure and power of action from Stortinget, the border with Storskog was also checked after each inspection. I hope that the government, although the Progress Party is now voting against this, will deal with the EU and see that it needs greater flexibility to include national measures in border control. Today, we must conclude that the Progress Party is voting against a very important measure to control immigration policy. Norwegian policy has a lot of success stories over time. One of the major success stories in Norwegian policy is that we have developed the whole country, that we have used the policy to ensure local value creation with a background in our natural resources – whether it is in Finnmark, in Agder or in Hedmark, where I live. It's a success story. It's created a lot of activity. We have used the legislation to ensure local and regional ownership. Then we've used the public sector to create activity. We have made sure that we have a spread of public jobs around the whole of Norway. This has meant that we have varied labour markets, which allow families to have a great deal of freedom of choice in where they want to live. This has given individual freedom of choice and growth power to the country. Then we've seen a completely different political course from the government in recent years: it's centralization in absolutely all areas. I can take some examples now that create a lot of unrest: at a time of increasing unemployment and unrest in many local communities, the tax rate, on behalf of the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, is proposing to move and centralize a lot of state jobs. For example, in a municipality such as Stord, which has a high unemployment rate, the tax rate proposal is now to lay down the state jobs there, so that there are additional unemployment problems in that community. We see from the Minister of Labour that we need to centralize the Nav office. You have to create a more remote system – you don't have to have so many Nav offices locally, but you have more digitisation, you don't have the user-friendly contact. You have to centralize the workplaces. We've seen it inside the police. Now there's a huge process in the lumbar seat where you put down a lumbarist's office after a lumbarist's office all around the country. Jobs are centralised. One would think it was to reduce the government administration, but then we see the opposite: it's a huge growth in bureaucracy, for example. in the Oslo Police Directorate, which has grown by about 60 p.m. since the Party of Advancement took over the Government offices. In our revised national budget, we spend more money on local police. We spend more money on transport, on tailoring, on bottlenecks, on increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, on more funds for fishing ports, on more forestry funds, on food research and on geological mapping. We have a revised national budget that sees the whole country, which creates opportunities for jobs and development across the country. And then we actively use the charging policy. Of course, we are moving towards introducing an airline seat tax, which only endangers a thousand jobs in the Eastfold region. And I've told you that they're going to put down routes. We've seen what's happening at Gardermoen, moving activity from Norway to Sweden and Denmark. It is a totally irresponsible policy to introduce taxes now that create more unemployment, not more activity. We have money to reduce toll rates for Norwegian business. There has never been any demand for more tolls than it is right now. There is a new Norwegian record, unfortunately, in toll collection. We are promoting proposals today where we want to halve the toll rates for all Norwegian heavy traffic. We believe it is so important that Norwegian business does not have that competitive disadvantage. For some amazing reason, the Progress Party is voting against it. Even so, the Progress Party has been opposed after they came into government. They are to introduce tolls into the air through an aircraft passenger charge, but they are opposed to removing tolls on the ground to halve toll rates for Norwegian heavy traffic. The sad thing about this budget, which is a line in government policy, is that it only sees parts of the country. Centralising public jobs, not using activity-creating instruments, imposing taxes that particularly affect districts, and forgetting that unemployment is as bad as it is in the Mosse region, or whether it is in the South and Western countries. I also find it strange that the Right and the Progress Party are voting against our proposal that we will also have measures targeted at the Eastfold region, which are now particularly affected by this revised national budget. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e729	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e734	The centre party correctly describes it in its comments in the vote on the revised budget, that Norway is experiencing an ‘asymmetric’ employment crisis, where some parts of the country are experiencing growth, while others are experiencing a decline. It sets ‘requirements for targeted fiscal policies’ since asymmetry makes general action a little ‘less appropriate’. What I'm asking about is what is particularly targeted and meeting the regions that need it the most, when the proposal of the Centre Party is general, new tendering rules, SME discount in capital adequacy requirements, reduced toll rates for larger vehicles and strengthening broadband development and the FUNN scheme, all of which are general measures. I do not fully see how to reduce toll rates for commercial enterprises – so that families with children and other private cars have to pay more – or weakening the soundness of Norwegian banks through an SME discount contributes to increased employment, but it may be the answer of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e741	Let me get to it with tolls first. It is not right, what was said by the representative, that families with children have to pay more. It's the state that has to pay that bill. We believe that the toll load has become too high. That is why we made proposals last autumn, in which we wanted to reduce the toll burden, which the Progress Party and the Right voted against, and we are now promoting it, and the Progress Party and the Right vote against. This is the second option especially for the Progress Party to bring down Norwegian toll rates, but they choose the opposite – because they are more concerned with sitting in government offices than implementing their own policies. Looking at the measures we have, it can be seen that there are a number of measures to stimulate business around the country. We have also received criticism that we believe that measures should be taken for high-freedom municipalities, even if they are not located in the South or West. For example, Tage Pettersen, who is rapporteur in Moss, has been very disappointed that there are no measures for that region and for a municipality like Moss, which has high – and increasing – unemployment. We have set up our own system, which means that municipalities outside the South and West countries with a high unemployment rate will also be able to obtain compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e751	The representative Battle Violence Vedum and the undersigned agree that there is too much centralization in society. The right shall be the right: the government pusher, but it cannot take responsibility for everyone and anyone who has to move to the central strike. Much goes by itself, so countermeasures are needed, because this has something to do with what kind of Norway we want. So my question to Battle Violence Vedum is: one should focus on the importance of increasing productivity and versatility in the Norwegian economy, that's important. Nutrition policy is also very crucial for where people choose to live. What are the main countermeasures of the Centre Party to reverse the current, so that more people will choose to live in District Norway instead of being tapped for the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e758	In policy, it is crucial in almost all contexts. So you need a whole in terms of instruments. To take the public first: we can't build hospitals, police, tax havens, Nav – all the public offerings locally – and then believe that people will bet there. We have to think this way first, when it comes to the public sector, that you have to have a basic infrastructure across the country that provides people with services, even if they live in a smaller place. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2 is: we need a charging policy that is adapted to what we have in Norway, so that it is possible to operate airports, for example. in Lofoten, which is the local network there, that we have commuter deductions, which means that those who travel far to work are compensated for the expenses they have, and that we have depreciation rates that make us stimulate the unique business we have off the coast. And – as point No. 3 – we need legislation to ensure national and local ownership of natural resources. The main basis for activity around the whole of Norway is local ownership of forests, fisheries, soil and geology. That's why we have to use a number of instruments. And we have many more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e769	In 2013, 70 pst went. Of the road contracts to Norwegian contractors, while we know that in 2015 94 pst went. of these contracts to Norwegian contractors. This occurs at the same time as the appropriations for transport have increased sharply, so that the cake has become larger. And the share of the cake that goes to Norwegian entrepreneurs has become much larger. The centre party should be satisfied with this, because they state in their comments that there is a need for new ‘offer rules to ensure that Norwegian companies can compete with large foreign players’. With this in mind, I wonder if the representative of the Battle of Vedum could say that former Minister of Transport Arnstad made mistakes when she travelled to Leipzig in May 2013 to a summit conference on transport, where the main purpose was to inform the international industry about projects in the national transport plan, because it was important to facilitate more foreign operators in the Norwegian construction market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e778	The first thing I think the Progress Party should do now is look at the treatment Hehre, which is a plant company, now gets. Because they have submitted a tender in the wrong mailbox, they are not allowed to participate in a large tender for road development in North Norway. All other papers are correct, but they are not allowed to participate because they are in the wrong mailbox. I hope that the Progress Party now shows the power of action and says that this is not the way we can do it. It is obvious that they have acted in good faith and with good intentions, and that they must also participate in the tenders. The second thing we've been busy about is you have to start breaking up some of the big tenders. For example, New Wegener has had such large tenders that operators such as Road Cover are not willing to submit tenders – only foreign contractors. What we are concerned about in our budget is that we need to have a tendering regime that enables us to stimulate Norwegian operators to submit tenders. If the projects get too big, we'll see that they're just foreign actors. Then we're doing something wrong. But first of all, I hope that you can now get hold of the Höhre case, so that they too will have the opportunity to join in building a road in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e787	In the series of warnings to the current government, the tax office came as case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I wonder what experience the Central Party had with the state tax offices when they were in government and a large number of offices were closed down – whether there are painful experiences from that time that now warn the government of today against the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e792	The first warning we gave was that we were not active when it came to border control in Europe. We think that's very important, and it's very important that the government is active here. In the case of tax offices, a change in the office structure was made when we were in government. One was to strengthen the presence around the country by building up a number of offices that could stand over time. We thought that we could then create a structure that could stand. What is now being proposed is a massive centralisation – 540 new jobs are to be centralised. We think it's very unwise, because it's easier and easier to operate the tax rate decentralised. We have digital tools to communicate better and better, so there is no need to have a further centralisation of the tax rate. Then you can discuss whether you're centralizing too much last time. It's not said to centralize even more now, it's very, very unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e803	CO2 emissions are increasing, especially from the petroleum sector and the transport sector. The climate crisis is spreading to an extent, and urgent action is needed to resolve it. It's about letting down the garden in better condition than when one took over. The centre party is well opposed to the approach and has largely distinguished itself from all the expansion of petroleum activity, not least on the ice edge, and is opposed to all measures and changes in fees to reduce emissions from the transport sector. At the same time, the party – at the latest now from the speaker’s chair – proposes to halve the toll rates for that part of the transport sector that has the largest emissions, i.e. heavy transport. In addition, the centre batch proposes to halve the aerodrome charges on parts of the domestic flight network. What is the solution of the Centre Party to bring down CO2 emissions from the transport sector and such secure legacy a better starting point than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e818	I think one of the greatest dangers in environmental policy is that they call all environmental taxes. Tolls were not introduced as an environmental tax. There has never been any reason that tolls should be a climate policy instrument. The reason for tolls was that there was a way to have splice layers to build a road. We believe that the burden on the split layer has become too heavy for Norwegian businesses, and we want to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses and reduce costs. The left should also be concerned about making sure that we have a competitive business throughout the country. In terms of getting a greener transport sector, this is a general charging policy. Once we have had a distortion of car charges, when we have stimulated electric cars – these are good measures. Then the Left should ensure that the proposal they themselves made before Christmas, to reduce commuter rates on trains, is put in place. It has not yet been implemented – it is just a paper decision, no one has experienced it. That's the kind of grip we have to take. We must not call other grep climate taxes when it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e829	The representative, Slagsvold Vedum, is quite right in saying that the Progress Party seems to be more concerned with sitting in government offices than having its policies implemented. We have seen this both in the area of fees and in a number of other areas. The contestants have good reason to be disappointed. One thing they were also critical of before they came into government was to give big tax cuts to the richest, they said on the contrary that tax policy would benefit people most. Now we see the representatives of the Progress Party in the Chamber rather argue that large, large cuts in the wealth tax will, at some point in the future, provide jobs. Some SV think will work, is to change the write-off regime for business, so that one stimulates more reconversion and more new investments, thus creating new and more sustainable jobs. Will the Central Party participate in a more entrepreneurial depreciation policy if we together get a majority after the 2017 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e838	In the previous ageing period, depreciating agents were actively used to stimulate activity around the country. As the situation in Norwegian business is now, it would have been a very targeted measure to create activity using depreciation instruments. In fact, it is also stated in the Health Declaration that they are in favour, but then they entered the government offices. Then they panicked – then they were suddenly opposed. When we had the tax settlement and presented the wording of the Sundvolden Declaration – if not the Right Party and the Advance Party could support the Sundvolden Declaration – they said it was irresponsible. But it is responsible and good policy to use depreciation rates. We've always done that. I hope the government doesn't cut the starters in the autumn budget. It would be a very unfortunate signal when we need increased activity, not less activity. But the signals that the Progress Party and the Right have now given may indicate that they are going to tighten down the depreciation code – instead of improving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e847	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e851	In the presentation of the draft revised budget 2016, the Left Government gave a favourable opinion that the space for action they had was mainly used to reinforce emergency measures to meet the unemployment crisis in the South and West, and we criticized the government for the fact that the action space was primarily the result of a new large increase in oil spending instead of real repriorities and cuts in public expenditure. And when the few cuts that were actually made were cut off climate action like the eco-technology system, without any trace of new measures that reinforced the green shift, it was a little bit to catch up with this time as well. We should be so careful with the superlatives and say that the agreement on RNB itself alone does not move mountains. We are making some reasonable adjustments in a budget which, after the budget agreement before Christmas, was reasonably good. In the negotiations, the left-wing unemployment secretariat in the south and west of the country and measures to strengthen migration and green growth, as main priorities. One of the most important things to achieve a successful transition is to bet on higher education, both for those who are going out in their first job and for all those who need to become a new industry. I am therefore pleased and proud that the main requirement for the Left in the negotiations, more places of study – an important acute and long-term measure – is still 400 new places, 200 of which are ear-taged to the South and the West and 200 to health and ICT. 400 study places, which have an annual cost of well over 200 million. kr when all the student ball is in place, probably can be called a fairly heavy priority in a revision debate where we do not, after all, move more than just 500 million. kr. The fact that there are four budget lines that give priority to such a boost in the revision at the top of everything we have invested in new resources and actions in the field of knowledge before shows the strength of today's civil cooperation in areas that are important for all four. Together with a new 150 million. kr for municipal construction projects, a strengthening of the environmental technology scheme by 40 million. SEK, research programme FORNY2020 by 20 million. kr and increase of the apprentice’s fourth time, to a total of SEK 17 500, there is little doubt that the cooperation between the Left, the Christian People’s Party and the Government Party responds well to the acute crisis and more long-term needs for business development and jobs. The government's draft budget is submitted to the autumn, yet it is decided in many areas. I now announce that both in our draft budget for 2017 and in the budget negotiations, the Left will contribute to the state budget becoming the climate budget of the time. Solving the climate crisis is for social liberals Left to secure the freedom and security of future generations. They shall have at least the same opportunities to enjoy and use the nature that we have the privilege to do. The ingenious thing about tackling climate crisis is that they are usually measures that also strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and industry in markets that increasingly have green values like the heaviest drivers. The budget agreement this year also rests on appropriations that will be shown again in next year's budget. Among other things, it shall result in a green tax shift which shall be of a size that enhances the climate agreement and provides significant reductions in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The left is very pleased that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have taken on such responsibility. It certainly promises not only for the climate but also for the cooperation climate. The debate we had earlier in the week on the energy communication also shows with all clarity that it will be more expensive and more difficult to achieve with the Norwegian climate commitments the longer we expect. Purchasing through the EU quota system is also not a safe road, including: because emissions from the transport sector are not covered by the quota arrangements. There are also several other leaders in the 2016 budget agreement to be monitored in the next budget. We shall establish Renewable AS, a new state investment fund of up to 20 billion. kr, which will be a targeted measure to close one of the main obstacles today to ensure that new, green technology will lead the way from the laboratory to scaling up, industrialisation and commercialisation: the lack of enough and long-term enough risk capital that has its back on processes that can take both five and ten years. We need to put in place a real tax-reduction scheme for anincreased measure in our own countries, as we promised the voters before the 2013 elections. Denmark has now established a functional model and path way for Norway to do the same. The left has long been in favour of introducing tax incentives, or tax deductions, for long-term investments in start-up companies, e.g. based on existing models in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Government shall issue the relevant models for Norway and present them in the budget of the House. Eleven months of study support shall be phased in with the first increase and disbursement in May 2017. We also need to put in place a differentiated maintenance payment scheme and free core time in the school leave scheme according to the nursery model. All research shows that participation in school leisure schemes for the youngest school year is the best integration and learning action we can put in place. The right to babysitting should also be extended to children who reach the age of one year by the end of December. We need to speed up the modernisation and efficiency of the public sector. The follow-up of the government by the productivity commission, as presented in the revised documents, is at best a rather fanciful start. The mission of Stortinget was that the government should make concrete proposals to reduce red tape and streamline the state of RNB. It's not followed up. The fact that red tape is not only increasing, but increasing alarmingly when raising is the opposite should be a reasonable motivation for the government to follow up on this in the 2017 budget proposal. In order for future generations not to be left with a massive bill from us that controls the use of money and the priorities today, we are forced to bring the use of oil down to a more resilient level. It's quite possible without dramatic followers, perhaps rather on the contrary. In each alternative budget left, we spend less oil money than the government does, and at the same time we are able to release more monthly to those who need it the most. The starting point should be good. Both government parties have clear programme formulations that growth in the public sector should be lower than growth in the private sector [[or GDP of mainland Norway]] Oil money consumption is increasing by 25-30 billion. kr every year. The Thøgersen selection, which the government has put down to evaluate the use of oil, suggests 5-8 billion. extra crowns per year, a budget pulse of 0.2 pst. The average budget impulse is for comparison on average 0.77 pst. with today's government in the driver's seat. The drive not only to the Left, but also the government part to do something about the use of oil money should be very good. Given that the total cost of the state budget is no nearer to a staggering 1,300 billion. kr, rather exactly twice as much as the Finnish when we correct for the cost differences, the scope for action to give priority to new, necessary bets should be reasonable. We are willing to face many challenges and enormous opportunities, but there is no country in the world that is better equipped than us not only to solve the challenges but also to lay the foundations for new jobs, new industrial growth and so secure future well-being and freedom of action. The 2017 budget shall reflect the political will and, if required, the political will. The left will contribute heavily in this way. The ease or difficulty of the budget negotiations for the autumn is primarily up to the government to steer through the draft budget they present to the Stortinget in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e890	For almost three years, the Left has chosen to be a support party for the government, including the government. because according to the leader, the left gets more in the climate with the Progress Party. Well, what remains as the story after this government, with the Left and Christian People's Party as supporting parties, are proposals for new taxes that prove to have no environmental impact – such as the bag tax, which was later charged, and the airline passenger fee, which also has no environmental impact, but on which the left-leader has been steeped, cost what it will cost. Yeah, it costs 1,000 jobs on Rygge. It costs a deserted airport and job closure several places in the country, investments put in the drawer, and reduced government confidence. There are several of them who are going to lose their job at the airport at Rygge, present here today. Can the representative explain to them why their jobs have to be sacrificed to this fiscal levy, which is to finance other measures Left priority in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e897	What is very under-communicated in connection with the air passenger charges is that the additional income that the charges provide goes to, among other things. to reduce the landing charges for aeroplanes operating on biofuels. A market makes it cheaper for airlines to use more climate-friendly fuels. Then both I and the three other parties that are behind the budget agreement really have a great deal of respect for what the people who are now working on Rygge are in the middle of it. That's the main reason why we have our own comment on this, and we're going to spend a lot of time and effort to see if we can find solutions that also come into the fear they're now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e904	The representative talked a lot about the green shift in his post. At the same time, we see that emissions are now increasing for the first time. The representative also repeated in his post what the left-wing leader said earlier, namely that the 2017 budget must be the environmental and climate budget of the time. The left-wing leader has also said that otherwise this government has no future. If the Progress Party is to create a majority around the tax credits they want, it's just through us and a green shift, the Left Leader has said. So now the Left and Left leaders have had three years. The green shift is missing and has ended in a batch-to-batch working group. Has the representative continued to believe that the Left gets more in the climate with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e911	I don't just believe it; I know it. What the representative forgets in his question is that what we've done now, that represents, among other things. a green tax change. Remember, green tax change is primarily green tax relief, i.e. reducing taxes and taxes on it will have more of it, and up on it will have less of it, to a size of 6-7 billion. kr, which is a lot more times than the case under eight years of a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e916	The representative Breivik is concerned with the accountability and sustainability of the oil money industry, and he refers to the Thøgersen Committee, which has said a lot about this. But the Thögersen Committee and Thögersen have also said that oil money needs to be adapted to the current situation in the Norwegian economy. I agree with Mr Breivik that the situation we are currently facing, among other things. with a halving of the oil price and the significance it has for the Norwegian economy, does that mean that we are not in the normal situation that the Thøgersen Committee actually described, but more in a situation where we have to adapt the use of oil money in a slightly different way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e921	In principle, I'm completely in agreement with the Thøgersen selection in it. I'm also written in what most politicians in the house use to explain every year we put up with a significant increase in the use of oil money – that the situation here and now requires it. What is problematic, and which is really the background for the turbulence to the left, is that everything we now have of predictions, and what we know about future needs, means that the increase that everyone has to take responsibility for having been in the last eight to ten years, I'll say, is not resilient. For the left, this, as I said in my main post, is primarily about not sending this bill before us, to the generations after us, and that it is they who are left with the oil money usage that we put up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e928	Then I have to be allowed to extend the little discussion a little bit and say that I fully agree that it is important for the future generations. But is the Left agreeing with me that even more important than having something on the so-called piggyback for future generations is it perhaps using money now in a way that gives the future generations a job, something to live on, and something that makes their future secure by their own efforts as well? Isn't it also an important topic, and perhaps so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e933	It is very easy to agree with the fleet representative on the basis of that question as well. But I certainly mean that the Left has shown it's quite possible to deal with without adding up to an equally expansive use of oil money, but actually through real repriorities and cut public spending. Remember that we – and the representative Fleet – have a great deal of common interest in also ‘households’ with the community’s resources. And there's no doubt that a government budget like now, as we said, is coming up in the dizzying 1 300 billion. kr, openbert has room to also release funds that secure greater force in the transition to the green shift and green growth, without the main rule being to buy more oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e938	The center party and the left have a common commitment to care for the cultivated soil – our food soil. We are in common behind a target of a maximum re-disposal of 4000 deches per year and a proposal that the government in the revised 2016 will provide a positive instrument for municipalities, so that we can avoid degradation of food soil. After a long time of decline, the fasitium shows that in 2014 a downer built more food soils, and in 2015 it peaked and built down even more. The answer from the government is to bring some creative calculations that show that it's not that bad. My question to the Left is: How long will the Left accept that the government they have deployed and supported, do little and nothing to take care of the cultivated land?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e948	I can promise the representative Pollestad, without being indiscriminate about what we're discussing in the chamber, that this is one of the areas that we're really going to address and stress when we're negotiating with the government party. I even believe that without us being so heavy in the lab when it comes to soil protection, which is absolutely necessary in view of the food situation in the world, the situation had only during a generation or two enough would have been significantly different, with negative signs, than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e953	In the extension of Pollestad’s question, it is worth noting that during the previous ageing period, when Left was a very offensive opposition party on the climate front, emissions in Norway decreased. Now, after three years of bourgeois rule, they go up. What reflections does the representative Breivik make on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e958	First of all – and the representative Valen knows well – one of the main reasons why emissions rise so much in 2016, is that a new oil field is phased out as a point emission. I expect that the representative Valen listens well to my main post, where I said that for the Left it is entirely decisive that the budget for 2017 will be the climate budget, not least given that we are not only actively using taxes and taxes to create markets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also that we are using different concession conditions for, among others. the operators on the socket to create markets for green technology and thus also favour the release from one of the major sources of emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e968	Today, the fight against economic injustice, the fight against unemployment in Norway and the fight for well-functioning integration are the three issues that require the most attention in the short term. That should also be done in the revised budget of the year. Many people are to be integrated into Norwegian society and are given the opportunity to obtain the necessary education, good work and the opportunity to live a good life, as part of the Norwegian community. It requires investments now that will make a profit in the future. Successful integration is particularly important at a time when growing economic and social uncertainty in Norway causes many to be afraid of what can happen in the future. We should not meet with fear in the future, we can meet with optimism and with confidence if we do what we need and invest where we need it. There are many lost opportunities to provide new jobs for many people in the oil, gas and supply industries, which can also contribute to the longer-term green transition of Norway. For a long time, a majority of the Stortinge firmly stated that there was no need for specific measures to combat unemployment and that there was no need for better permitting arrangements for vulnerable workers in vulnerable industries. Olav Duun has written it like this: "Every man has his times in doubt, and the greater man, the greater times." From that quote, I guess I almost have to say that the government is made up of very large people. They have been questioning themselves for two years with increasing unemployment. They could have met unemployment with several measures in the past, but they let go. The doubt could have favoured the parties to the government at an earlier stage. But when that is said, we must praise every change for the better. After a long time of argumenting against what they called locking up skills and other carefully developed arguments against taking concrete action against unemployment and ensuring more security for those at risk of losing their jobs, the government has slowly, but surely followed the call from the trade union movement and the political left. The proposed action package on unemployment is still too small, but is losing one step in the right direction compared to previous budgets. That is why I commend the doubt that has evidently brought the government from self-declared paralysis to suggestions for action. And we hope that doubt will prevail in even greater moments in the near future, so that even greater measures against unemployment will benefit those who lack work and who will not contribute to production, value creation and well-being, those people who are afraid to lose their jobs, those people who have to tell their children this summer that there will be no summer vacation, the people who are now struggling not only because of increasing unemployment but because of the government's cutback. Greater efforts must be made, because unemployment is a waste of society as a whole, but it is primarily tragic for those affected. Last year we had this debate too – almost exactly the same debate. A number of good measures were proposed which could quickly provide jobs in the South, the West and elsewhere with high unemployment. And here we are one year later. Unfortunately, the latest year’s development shows that the warnings from the opposition last year were correct, and that many more could probably have been working now if the government agreed to act at an earlier time. Then we could create less unfair differences in Norway, more people could go to work every day and be satisfied with today's efforts. Instead, the government with its summer meal has made sure that more people live in forced passivity and have to be unsure of what future brings. The unemployment crisis we now have is the right time to re-establish a more active business and industrial policy, and not such a 'laissez-faire' capitalism as Siv Jensen and the government stand for, where one should lower taxes a little and hope that everything will be taken care of. The state and the public must play an important role in developing new industries and contributing to the creation of new industries. The tax havens that the government has been bragging about for two years have not created a single job, we are still waiting for the results of the tax festival of the time for the richest elite in Norway. A backward attitude and threat to the healing effect of tax cuts on the low economic cycle in the oil and supply industries have obviously not helped any of the people who need jobs. Therefore, SV proposes an alternative to the revised budget which prioritises work, integration, education and, not least, green transition. I then pick up the SV's proposal and hope to support as many of them as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e988	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e993	There's a majority here in the Chamber to introduce the airline passenger fee, that's probably 785 million. kr it is about. Both the SV and the Workers' Party are opposed. But then I also find that SV – in the middle of the year – has chosen to propose environmental taxes of more than 3 billion. kr. No matter how environmentally friendly a person may be, it seems a little late in the middle of the year, so it could be okay if the representative Serigstad Valen could at least give us his thoughts around are so exciting suggestions in the middle of the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e998	One of the major challenges in Norwegian policy is that a more sensible and realistic climate policy is considered to be ‘strange’. Of 3 billion SEK in green fees goes 2 billion. kr for unemployment measures, over 1.5 billion. kr for other measures and SEK 0,5 billion. kr for integration. It is a good way to redistribute in Norwegian society, and it is one of the core elements of SV's tax policy. We want ordinary people to pay less income tax. Then we can increase environmental taxes without making it unsocial, in the way that the Progress Party is now implementing. The board's fee profile is to let people pay the most, while the richest get away. SV stands for the opposite. We want to increase taxes for the richest, we want to lower taxes for ordinary and low incomes, so that we can increase environmental taxes without having an unsocial impact. We showed in our alternative state budget for 2016 that a normal family with twice as high diesel consumption and twice as high electricity consumption in the year as is usual, still goes into zero with SV's policy because we have such a strong redistribution profile that comes with the green profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1005	I want to give the representative Serigstad Valen an Olav Duun quote in return: "The world is beautiful, only you can see it from the right edge." In their comments on the revision, SV writes that the fight against unemployment is one of the most remarkable issues in the revised budget of the year. They further write that SV «considers a crisis of unemployment which is the right time to re-establish a more active industrial and industrial policy, with a view to obtaining a job for industry today, using the instruments available to the State not only as regulator and purchaser but also as owner». The question is then: can the representative Serigstad Valen elaborate on how SV of my country as owner can get a job for the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1020	I'll give you three examples of that. I am pleased that the Right asks the question, for I hope that the Right will take it further, so that they will reject their self-declared business neutrality. One thing we can do is we're the biggest owner, for example. in Statoil, may require the launching of projects which should have been initiated a long time ago. That's when I'm aiming, for example. to our proposal to start more ploughing of wells that are only temporarily closed on Norwegian plough. These are wells that need to be closed because of the environment, but that have not been started yet, and that could give many riggers jobs. The second is to make use of the derogations provided for in EEA legislation to ensure that defence equipment is built in Norway. We have a crisis in parts of the shipbuilding industry, and then we must ensure that Norwegian shipyards, for example, are building. the new coastguard ships. The third is that we have to look at the maintenance kit we have on the Norwegian base, and all of which ironically were very busy before the oil price fell, because Statoil spent a lot of money abroad and let it be a maintenance kit in Norway. I believe that Norway should use its power of ownership as it was meant when we created Statoil in its time, and ensure that skills, technology and jobs develop and remain in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1031	I have been at Stortinget for a few years and have seen developments in SV, from being a clean city party to becoming a city core party. It's like this in Oslo, with S.B. on the board, that it's almost criminal to show up in public in a car. I live a little outside Fauske, 6-7 km outside Fauske. There goes a bus with school students in the morning, and then there goes a bus from school in the afternoon. My neighbors work in different industries – the daily food industry, the café industry, some are help nurses – and they depend on getting to work. Then there's only one option, and that's to use the car. Then I wonder why SV will punish this low income group outside the city core, while the low income groups within the city core will retain their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1041	One must really belong to the Progress Party to think that it would give 6 billion. more to the municipalities than to the Progress Party, and that wanting to strengthen collective provision throughout the country – including in the districts – is urban core policy. It is particularly interesting that this criticism comes on the day when the Progress Party finally decides on an airline passenger fee which they themselves are against, and which they themselves openly and directly say will affect most people. I might not have chosen this day to attack other parties for social charges. As I said in a previous response to the representative Hagebakken, the difference between the SV's and the Progress Party's charging profile when it comes to green taxes is that we return the money we collect in green taxes, in tax cuts to low and medium incomes. It once promised the Progress Party to do, but they haven't, and that's because they were more busy giving billions to the richest elite in the country, and then they spent the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1048	This is the way – at least in the municipality of Fauske – that the municipality does not carry out transport, so it does not help to give the municipality money, because it does not help those who are going to work. In the Nordic counties, SV is in charge of public transport in the districts. They have not given more money for more buses to pass. Thus, the policies that point to one’s having are not being implemented in the districts. I assume that we can agree that it is not appropriate to leave the railway or track around Fauske. I hope so. It is returned to the low-income groups, says SV, but this does not make any difference at all. The low income group to which you return may well get into the cities, which are once again subsidized by public transport, but you live outside the cities, you get the same tax deduction. But there's a big difference between living inside the city center and living outside the city center. Why does SV want there to be such a difference between the low income groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1055	I have to say that this is one of the most eye-catching questions I have received during a line change in Stortinget, since it comes from a representative of a party that during its reign has the “axe” in the payments to disabled dependants. So people who have worn out their bodies in working life or have had chronic illness can lose tens of thousands of dollars a year because of the moralism of the Progress Party. So the game that cuts the pensions of some of the poorest pensioners in the country, trying to keep it hidden from the Stortinge afterwards, comes up to the pulpit and asks questions about the social profile of other parties, who actually put out money to those groups that have the least. I don't know how much Svendsen is around in Oslo. Neither I nor he lives here in the city, but the challenge is now that there is quite a lot of car traffic, even in the big cities, that we have to deal with. And all that time both the SV and the Progress Party are in order to increase environmental taxes – the Progress Party with a failed flight passenger fee, SV with green charges with demonstrable effect – is therefore the SV who chooses to compensate it through tax cuts to those with low incomes, while the Advance Party gives tax cuts to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1062	It's a new exercise we have this year, thanks to the Progress Party, that we don't now have our own social security settlement in Stortinget. This is the first time we have a revised national budget in which the social security system has been integrated into the treatment. Former Progress Party leader Carl I. Hagen says he feels bored because of it. I find it incomprehensible that a party that has wanted to raise the pensioners before, tries to hide it away by doing the opposite when they get into government. It's not a fair way to run politics. I see that SV in its revised national budget prioritises 612 million. kr more than the government makes the pensioners. We're prioritizing 200 million. kr. How did you get to the number 612 million? Do you really want to delete this item? And how does SV react to the fact that no one from the Progress Party has mentioned the word «pensionist» so far in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1069	I want to thank you for the question. Of all the gross lifting breaks the Progress Party has been in for since they took the government power, perhaps their treatment of the pensioners is almost the top. It is because there is hardly a party on the western hemisphere that has so indignantly spoken on behalf of those who built the country, but who have nothing to give them when they finally have government power. And making sure – two years in a row – that ordinary low-pension pensioners get reduced purchasing power, I think, in fact, is rather petty. The progress team has since tried to present it as if most pensioners are coming out well because of some tax cuts. But when we ask the government about numbers, it turns out that more than eight out of ten pensioners get reduced purchasing power as a result of Siv Jensen and the social security settlement of the Progress Party. We think that's very disappointing. We've landed on the number that we've done, based on the Pensioners' Association's input. We thought that the Progress Party also used to listen to the pensioners, but when they do not, SV must do the job and promote that proposal in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1080	It's almost a shame that I'm not representing the Progress Party right now, given what the voice of the representative Serigstad Valen is in. But it was actually his answer to the first question from the representative Kenneth Svendsen who made the decision that I took a line, because I did not get the answer from the Serigstad Valen to agree with what they actually do in the revised. Serigstad Valen claims that SV uses increased green taxes and taxes to reduce taxes on labour and to strengthen measures to socially deferred groups. But as I read today's option from SV, SV uses the 3 billion. The costs of increasing environmental taxes are slightly to large and small and the most significant to increase the pension to some groups. So my question to Serigstad Valen is: What should you trust the most – what they actually do, or the answer Serigstad Valen now just gave to the representative Svendsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1089	This is a small reprisal of a round we've had in the hall earlier today. It is that SV, in our alternative state budget for the whole year, has had a consistently more social profile than the majority have had. We do not change the income tax system in the middle of the year, and I suspect that the representative Breivik also knows. But we also believe that it is important to increase the effort against unemployment by significantly more than the government and the majority do, and that is why we set of 2 billion. kr to it. We believe it is very important to step up efforts for integration, and that is why we propose half a billion dollars for it. We have a number of other measures we think should be implemented now, which the majority have not prioritised, and part of the funding of it is green fees, which I honestly thought the Left would join and think was sensible. Because it's quite obvious that we have to increase the cost of releasing CO2 in order to have any theoretical chance of saving the planet from ecological destruction. That's the real perspective here -- not a little bit of squabbling in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1099	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1102	Let me also, at the very beginning, as several speakers have come to address the United Kingdom and yesterday's serious incident. It's an event that affects us all, and not least an event that reminds us of how valuable political democracies are, and how important it is to us to fence them. We can all imagine what it's like to lose a job. You're used to being in demand, used to seeing your colleagues daily and getting paid into the account, and all of a sudden it stops it all up. It also hits your family, and it hits the whole community around you. In a short time, the sharp fall in the price of oil in the Norwegian economy has had a major impact on many small and large communities in the South and West. The main effort of the government is therefore to help more people get a safe job and create new profitable jobs. Economic policy is a powerful effort to put job opportunities into work and to create new profitable jobs. Weaker crowns help export companies, while low interest rates make it cheaper to raise capital for new businesses and projects. At the same time, government policies that have provided lower taxes and stronger investment in research, education and infrastructure facilitate migration, new jobs and higher incomes for well-being, safety, health and care. The action package is now being rolled out, and through the agreement on the revised national budget, we are strengthening efforts for work, activity and change. The measures now targeted at the South and the West will contribute to more jobs and reduce unemployment in hard-hit areas. But the development of the Norwegian economy is twofold. In April, I visited More and Romesdal. Here I saw clearly how some companies, close to each other, were strongly affected by the fall in the oil price, while others benefited from the weaker dollar rate. Enterprises could lie side by side and still have a completely different experience of the economic situation. For some, it's hard and hard to see the way out of the miscarriage. Many families are affected and experience uncertainty about the future. Other enterprises have good times and significant revenues. It illustrates how the consequences of a lower oil price and a weaker dollar rate vary greatly between different industries. South and Western countries are hit hard by one of the biggest oil price falls in history. For those who lose their job or experience increased uncertainty about their job, the situation is serious. I am pleased that we have agreed to extend the targeted measures to support activity and employment in these areas. And there's reason for some optimism. The oil price has recovered from the fuel levels in winter. It reduces the risk of a greater and more serious setback in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment rates may vary considerably. Over some time, however, there have been signs that the rise in unemployment has slowed down for the country as a whole. This is very joyful and a sign that the policy is working. We already see that improved competitiveness has contributed to increased exports from the mainland and higher activity in the tourism industry. Norwegian suppliers have won a large proportion of the assignments related to the development of the Johan Sverdrup field. Norway’s Bank’s regional networks support the image that improved competitiveness and public demand have boosted economic activity. The NHO’s latest quarterly report reports that economic policy has strongly stimulated the economy and that there has been a marked improvement in the future prospects of NHO’s member enterprises. The local economy is good. New accounting figures confirm that municipalities had high income growth last year, and the tax intake so far this year has been good. At the same time, it is important to stress that many continue to experience insecurity for their jobs. Part of the business meets both low-end and waste-winners. Therefore, it is important for me to convey that the government has a high level of preparedness and follow developments closely. If the situation so requires, we – as we have so far done – can respond quickly and take action. It is about using the space we have in Norway, where we can actively use the budget to stimulate activity and employment in poor times. The revised budget is primarily a station where we update the budget in line with new information. We've been holding on to that. In addition to the new measures to combat unemployment, the changes in the budget are due to circumstances that we find difficult to overcome. Structural tax revenue has been reduced because of a decline in the Norwegian economy, and the country also receives less dividend income from state corporations. At the same time, the cost of managing asylum arrivals has increased. Actually, the last thing is good news. The costs of integration are increasing because we live faster in municipalities than we previously thought was possible. As expenditure increases, it means lower expenditures later. Then I record that some people criticise the government for spending too much oil money. In the 2016 budget, we use 2.8 pst. by the Pension Fund. It is well within the guideline that has been drawn up for fiscal policy, and that is right in the current situation. The alternative is for the government budget to be cut when tax revenue goes down. This would mean a dramatic reversal of Norwegian economic policy, in which case the state budget would reinforce the recession instead of counteracting it. Fortunately, the parties' alternative budget proposals show that there are, in reality, small differences in the use of oil money. Some parties resort to unrealistic containment proposals in order to be able to produce the use in their arrangement as slightly lower than that of the government. The big difference between the batches is not how much money is spent, but how much money is spent. For example, the Labour Party wants: large tax increases in a demanding time for Norwegian business. Higher taxes would now be highly harmful medicine. This year, employees will experience lower purchasing power. Increasing taxes may weaken private consumption and increase unemployment. We need conversion. Then we have to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. The working party will do everything it can to increase its public expenditure. The Labour Party is critical of the increase in expenditure under this government, but it wants an even larger public sector. It is one-track, and it is short-term policy. Then we're weakening the growth capacity of the economy, and we're making businesses less adaptable. We don't reduce taxes for short-term reasons, but because we need a competitive business in the future. The oil price drop clearly shows that Norwegian business needs more legs to stand on. Then we have to create new jobs in the private sector. We cannot replace lost jobs from the oil industry with jobs in the public sector. It will be to replace well-being-funded jobs with jobs to be funded by private jobs. We need conversion. Then we have to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. Therefore, the tax relief proposed by this government is important. That is why we are focusing on transport, on research and on development. The government prioritises areas that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy and strengthen the private sector. Our main task is to make sure that as much as possible has a safe job to do, while at the same time we put out a new and better course for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1170	The finance minister said it's about thinking about what it's like to lose the job, and it's worth doing. Here in the hall today, up in the gallery, there are people who lose their jobs. It is people who have hitherto operated a modern airport – effectively, to the delight of those who travel, and to the delight of the community. They have been active contributors, went to work, paid taxes, as we want it to be. So now the government parties have not used the opportunity during the treatment of the revised to make a change they could have made so that an environmental tax, an environmental tax – which may not prove to be any of the parts – could be replaced by anything else. So the government has chosen not to do that. My question to the Minister of Finance is, if she's going to think about what it's like to lose a job: What measures, if any, does the government intend to put into the area around Rygge – in Eastfold, which has a high level of unemployment from before – to meet the situation of a thousand people can stand up in a few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1178	I'm happy to get that question, because I think it's important that we all look at Back to see what development opportunities lie in this region – given that Ryanair is now serious about the threats they've come with. It is quite right that the Stortinget decided to introduce a passenger fee before Christmas, only with effect from 1 April, but it was implemented with effect from 1 June. So this is an airline that chooses to fly from other destinations in Norway, where the same fee exists. That being said, I take seriously the uncertainty and turmoil that have arisen in the Rygge community, and the government has announced that we will go further into that situation. I also note that there are solid observations from the majority of the Financial Committee that support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1187	This is not an answer. This is not about Ryanair. It's about a Progress Party fee introduced a late evening to get a budget to go up. We had the same thing with the plastic bag charge. Then some time went by, and another solution was found, because the fee turned out to be an unwise political craftsmanship. Then you have repeated a political craft that has not been wise. Then it is possible to come back and say that you find another way. But the form of the Progress Party is therefore to impose charges that have a very dubious effect on environmental policy – it is negative for the credibility of environmental taxes – and that then has the consequence that an airport is closed and a thousand people lose their jobs. Would the Minister for Finance have understood that this could be the consequence, and is this a reasonable consequence of the fees that the Progress Party would like to impose?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1194	What I said in my previous answer is about taking the evolution that is now emerging in the Rygge community, seriously, and that is what this government intends to do. But then I might think that the representative Gahr Støre should go a little by himself. The Labour Party may now be against this levy, but they do so in a situation where overall they increase the tax burden in Norway by over 10 billion. kr in its own alternative budget. In the establishment of the revised budget, the Workers' Party is increasing the fees by 1.3 billion. kr – much more than it will cost to reverse the passenger charge alone. So the Workers' Party must not try to present itself as the party in Norway that has suddenly been engaged in reducing taxes and taxes, when, overall, they increase taxes by over 10 billion. kr, which would be very poor medicine for an overall Norwegian business life in the current situation of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1201	In relation to the previous line, it may be useful to recall that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said it was not appropriate to fly with Ryanair – because of ‘how serious the LO seems to be in Ryanair’s situation’. All have to admit, whether one is talking about Ryanair or the other, that, unfortunately, Smoking has been dependent on Ryanair, which now chooses to lay down the base, but increases the number of flights from other airports – at the exact same rate as one would have had on Back. But it doesn't help people who are employed on Rygge. That is why I would like a confirmation from the Council of State on the majority of today's rulings, namely that the government should go in and give a careful and thorough assessment of the situation, especially of the future role of non-state airports in the Eastern region, in the context of the budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1210	I'm more than happy to confirm that. As I also said in one of my previous answers, the government is very concerned about how we can find alternative development opportunities for the Rygge community. There are an incredible number of competent people who are now walking around and worrying about the situation. It's the government's intention to try to do something about it. That is why we take seriously the situation that has arisen, and we are pleased that a majority of the financial committee is so clear in its order. That gives the government the power to do the work we're about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1215	That's amazing what we're witnessing now. Here, the Progress Party and Siv Jensen create huge problems by imposing a levy. It's her responsibility. It is she who confirms the revised national budget. It could be up to a thousand unemployed just in Rygge. We also see consequences elsewhere. You have to look at compensatory measures — if you take it seriously — but you just let it go through. It's completely irresponsible, what's happening now. You should turn around and vote for the proposal of the Central Party and the Workers' Party, so that we can continue the airport instead of putting it down. Then I have a question for Siv Jensen that is quite concrete: when a family that is going from Stokmarknes to, for example. Majorca on holiday, flies from Stokmarknes to Bodø, from Bodø to Oslo, from Oslo to Mallorca and back again, the total fee will be NOK 2 160, for each actor will charge a fee. The size decision says that only one person will pay a single fee. So it's going to be NOK 880 – there's a difference of NOK 1280. How is this family going to get $1280?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1222	Let me first remind the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, of what he said in an earlier round in the hall today, namely that the whole was important. That's probably one of the reasons why you don't want to vote in favour of the Central Party proposal. As a result, the total taxes in Norway would have to be increased by over 15 billion. kr. So this is the proposal of the Central Party. If you're going to be concerned about the whole thing, you have to look at how the total tax burden affects different parts of Norwegian business and ordinary people. 15 B.C.E. kr in aggravated taxes is 15 billion. NOK too much at the time of the Norwegian economy. So to the specific question. We have been quite clear that there should be a derogation from the transfer and transit. This is the basis for the decision that has been taken, which means that you have to pay the fee once. I am absolutely sure that the airlines, now that the fee has been introduced, will find good ways to do this, so that only one fee is paid each way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1229	The Thøgersen selection has been replays and themes in several main posts and in the line change today. My question to the Minister of Finance is brief: When and in what form will the Minister of Finance and the Government propose that the Storting should present the report and recommendations of the selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1234	It is quite obvious that the Stortinget is already familiar with the report of the Thøgersen Committee, otherwise it would not be subject to so many lines in this debate. What I can say is what will be the consequences of the report in the future. It's not about whether we're going to continue to phase oil money into the Norwegian economy, it's a prerequisite for the whole rule of action: we're going to increase the use of oil money from one year to the next, but we're going to adapt it to the economic situation. We are now in a situation where the Norwegian economy needs stimulus through an expansive fiscal policy. That is quite right in the situation we are in, and Norway has also been joined by international bodies to the effect that it is right for us to pursue offensive fiscal policies now. What will be the situation for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 budget, we need to come back to when we have updated estimates of how the development of the Norwegian economy will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1241	It's no surprise that when the Progress Party came into government, we got an inequality and disparity rule. But there are probably many who are surprised that it is the older ones who come out the worst, after 40 years of fries for the elderly from the Advance Party. This year, eight out of ten pensioners get less of a living. It is particularly hard for single-age pensioners and low-pension people. While Siv Jensen can afford 18 billion. In tax relief, she cannot afford to maintain the purchasing power of the pensioners. I challenged the Senior General of the Advance Party, Carl I. Hagen, on this in Dagbladet, and he replied the following 4 June: ‘I can confirm that I feel bored by the Advance Party.’ He has reason for that, and it also has the country's pensioners, not least the pensioners who have the least. But the government's plan is not to continue doing anything about the underfinancing of pensions. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that she's been planning to join Carl I. Hagen next year and years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1251	Firstly, it is wrong that this government is – what the representative called it – ‘an inequality and disparity government’. This is a government that is concerned that all people living in our society should benefit from the welfare arrangements we have. It also applies to the pensioners. That's exactly why we in the budget that was adopted before Christmas, got a reduction in the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. For a couple, it means that you get NOK 8 000 more paid in retirement, with effect from 1 September. It is an important fulfillment of a promise that the Progress Party has had for many years, and that would never happen without our participation. In addition, the four cooperation parties have agreed to strengthen the pension also for single pensioners, with effect from the same date. This is good for the purchasing power of Norwegian pensioners, and it is a fulfillment of promises that the Progress Party has had for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1260	In the revised debate last year, the Labour Party expressed concern. The availability in Norway then passed 4 pst. for the first time in a decade. Now, a year later, it's about 4.7 pst. And we see the highest number of vacant SSBs ever measured. Behind these figures are individual ships, families, businesses and communities facing an uncertain future. We have heard of thousands of them today who may experience losing their jobs in Eastfold later this year. Norway wants to work, but record numbers are now out of work. It's very serious for those who are hit, and very expensive for society. Economist Torberg Falch of NTNU and senior researcher at the Frischsenteret Knut Røed points to four costs as a result of this increased unemployment: Loss of value creation: According to the estimates presented in the VG, the socio-economic loss is 35 billion. kr annually with this level. The payment of daily allowances has only increased by 38 pst in the last two years to 16 billion. kr. Long-term unemployment-related costs: the level of knowledge decreases, and the likelihood of getting a job as well. High levels of unemployment mean that more and more young people are coming too late into work, or not at all. Unemployment as a method of conversion is a costly policy, and there are misguided policies. The Labour Party believes that if we keep people in work and create activity, we will succeed much better. Conversion is not best in the Nav queue, it is best done in the workplace. The government does not control this situation, although Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen have increased oil money consumption as much in three years as in the previous ten. From the first budget and at each crossroads since then, the government has provided our children and grandchildren with savings. Then the government – rightly – will claim that the rule of action opens up to spending more money when the economy is running out. The point, however, is that Siv Jensen has spent more money from day one, before the oil price fall, before the unemployment crisis and before the refugee crisis. So the government is struggling with priorities. But there's one exception: big tax cuts are priority high in every budget. The cops cost 50 million. Every day. But to questions from the Workers' Party about how many jobs the government's most important efforts create, they can't give us any answers. A recent SSB report clearly shows that tax cuts in this way are very expensive and a little effective means of creating jobs. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is no. one. For the government, it's clearly coming down on the list. For the Workers' Party, 135,000 unemployed are a crisis of unemployment. For the government, there is not such a high level of unemployment compared to other countries. For the Workers' Party, it has been clear for a long time that the situation requires stronger measures to combat unemployment. The government says they're following the situation closely. The working party does not share the government's waiting and seeing attitude. We have other answers, and I'll mention three. First, get the activity up. We proposed a package of measures of about 3 billion in the autumn. kr more than the government and 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities so that they can invest. In our draft revised budget, we're adding 900 million. SEK for the extra activity package, including: a doubling of the government maintenance package to the South and West. I am glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left have forced the government to do something more. Secondly, focus on competence. Education, competence, qualification – it's our way. School drop-outs need to be reduced through early efforts, vocational training needs to be upgraded, the implementation of secondary education needs to be strengthened, vacant engineers need retraining, refugees need skills in order to be able to take up the work and become contributors in our society, and in our proposal for a revised budget we put at 100 million. kr more in 2016 for a comprehensive range of competences. Thirdly, we need an active industrial policy for new jobs. If we are to succeed in creating many new jobs at a time of technological change and turbulence, we need a closer interaction between industry, research institutions and the state. This interaction must take place in areas where Norway has unique advantages for success: within the sea, from fishing and farming to the blue bioeconomy, within the metal industry and in areas such as health and life sciences, in renewable energy areas, where we are world leaders in subsea technology and can use it to become the best in new areas, such as: sea wind. Norway wants to work, and Norway needs more jobs. It requires a more powerful policy to keep unemployment low, a more powerful commitment to skills and a more active state of business and research institutions. The budget for 2016 did not prioritise this enough, and the revised budget mid-year also does not correct enough. There must be a new budget but, above all, a new choice with a different majority of priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1302	The representative Gahr Støre also criticises the use of oil money, as the Workers' Party has done earlier here today. The fact is that we are well under the rule of action and that it is adapted to the situation we have, but yes, it is an expansive budget. What I would like to have clarified is what the Workers' Party writes and often says, that you have now almost introduced a new rule that goes on the withdrawal from the fund. The fact that you now take money out of the fund is short and good because it's a lower intake. Is it still such that the Workers' Party is on the rule of action and does not attribute this to how much or how little you are taking out of the fund, or can we expect the Workers' Party in its budget for the autumn, for example. Will it be equivalent to what you now have to take out of the fund, or will it increase the taxes accordingly? That's an unanswered question for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1309	Within the framework of the rule of action, which has been opposed by the Advance Party, it can be opened in order to withdraw from the Fund. Sigbjørn Johnsen was the first to put in, Siv Jensen is the first to take out. The point is that the socket comes much earlier than it had to. The Fund shall finance the pensions and welfare of children and grandchildren in the future. We're taking out too fast in the period we're in right now. That's the point. So this government has started this before the unemployment turned out, before the fall came, with a use of money that their own experts say is too high and cannot last. Last night we heard from the NHO, to which the fleet often listens, and they also have a lot of reason to say, that this use of money cannot last, because then the decline is too great.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1314	Yes, the NHO has a lot of wisdom to say, among other things. They're now saying something about maybe there's improvement in the situation. I would like to know more about taking money out of the fund. The rhetoric I understand is that you're going to say that Johnsen put in and Siv Jensen is the first to take out, etc. But has the Labour Party intended to compensate these withdrawals in some way in its budgetary policy? Can we, for example: expect them to continue in the same way as they did in the 2016 budget and increase taxes on business in the current situation? Don't even think Jonas Gahr Støre that we have to adapt the use of oil money, precisely because of it. the absence that he has very picturesquely described in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1321	That's what Mr. Gahr Støre thinks. We showed in our alternate budget that we could spend 3 billion. kr more to combat unemployment, 4 br. NOK more to the municipalities, and we did it with 4 billion. lower oil money consumption than the government. Now I'm going to be careful to advance our alternative budget for 2017, we need to see the government's plans and figures, but we've shown that by prioritizing differently, we can get better results, and we can spend the money on actions that actually work. The studies carried out by the government’s own bodies for the tax cuts by the government show that they are very little active in activity. We could get more activity using that money a different way. I think that will inspire the Labour Party's budgetary work for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1329	I notice that there will not be a full round of parliamentary leaders because the bourgeois leaders are not here. It's a clear sign that you're on the defensive. The bigger reason is for us to stress why, that is, that this government is more clearly and more clearly presented as it is, a differential and inequality rule. On 31 May, the Minister of Finance could inform us in Stortinget of the following: ‘First, there are no increasing differences in Norway. I just want to refute that claim." It was in an answer to the representative, Dag Terje Andersen. Seven days later she refuted her own claim in a letter to the Stortinget. I'm with this. She had to admit that she was wrong. The government is pursuing a policy of difference. The government reinforces what has been a long-standing trend in Norway — with one exception: the years in which the Minister of Finance had — towards greater economic inequality. Growing economic inequality is married to a society. It is not just a moral or political claim from the left, but an increasingly researched one, which shows that societies with great differences are making it worse on almost all statistics that will not be badly done, including from organisations such as the OECD and the IMF, which clearly show that inequality policies weaken the ability to adapt, growth and development of a society. Equality lifts everyone. A society of small differences is in everyone's interest. One does not need statistics to see that this government is a differential government, a government that has as its main project to reduce our taxes and make the upper class richer. But the most outrageous thing is not that someone gets richer, but that some of those who need community the most in this country get the bill. It's about those who should have had a lift in their care, because they're at home and take care of seriously ill children. Representatives of the government flocked up at home with a family of sick children to show their own action, but when the cameras were turned off, the performance disappeared, and now the lift is shot out into the blue. It also applies to children of unemployed persons who do not get a holiday this summer, because this government has cut off the holiday allowance for the unemployed, and to children of disabled persons who live in families who may lose up to NOK 20 000 of a very low income, due to the changes introduced from the new year. This concerns the new poverty trap created in the Grorud Valley and subsequently in other urban areas with major social challenges in Norway, when the government removes free core time in the kindergarten. This also applies to the social security settlement that we have just had, the break of the promises of the Progress Party. The elderly get less of a living. Also, when you calculate the taxes that Siv Jensen just boasted of, it's like more than eight out of ten pensioners get less of a living this year. Of course, the hardest hit are those who have little: single-age pensioners, those who only have a low social security pension and not private supplements. It's a differential policy where you make the rich richer, and then you send the bill to those who have the least. SV stands for something completely different. Where the government creates inequality, we fight for social equality. That is why we also stood outside the social tax settlement, where unfortunately the Workers' Party was also with this spring, where the 1 400 richest people in Norway get another half a billion dollars in tax cuts. Instead, we suggest changing all the social cuts I've mentioned; giving poor children's families more living off and more free core time instead of less; increasing the purchasing power of those pensioners who have little, and we're massaging about the care money. In our revised budget, we are proposing a leverage to reduce unemployment, because unemployment is also a source of difference. If we don't manage to combat unemployment now, we get growing differences in the future. That is why we need the green conversion package that can both help get people to work and turn Norway into a climate-friendly future. We have a differential and fossil government. SV is a distribution and renewable party, and we know that if we increase the differences today, we will create a colder society tomorrow. That's why we need decisions that take the fight for a warm society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1358	The representative Lighthouse used his post to talk about the important things. What primarily characterises Norway today, when we debate the revised national budget, is that we have the greatest measured unemployment of the time – 135 000 unemployed with families, many people in crisis. This didn't rush. The crisis has been building up steadily over the last two years. SV, the Working Party and the rest of the opposition have warned. We have made proposals on how to pursue an active counter-cyclical policy. We have pressured the government to take the right action early. The government listens as it does not know and acts too late. So we have a government that is constantly in deficit, and that – not only that – at the same time prioritises completely errors, which create increasing differences, as the representative was inside, by giving priority to tax cuts to the rich, while at the same time giving lonely relationships with children less to live on. I want to give the representative Lightbaked the opportunity to dream away: how does he imagine that today's situation would have been managed if we had continued to rule together?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1365	I thank you for the line and the opportunity to dream. Fortunately, it's only a little over a year until there's elections, and then dreams can become reality. That's our common problem, and I think we'll do that. We're going to use a new majority to do exactly the opposite of what this government is doing. Strong action is being taken to reduce unemployment. Then we achieve two things, which are very important for SV: We fight social differences – we know that those who are stuck in unemployment, who are being kept out of work today, are at risk of staying behind the queue for the rest of their lives, and that increases the differences – and at the same time we start the job of getting the greenhouse gas emissions down and getting the green transition going. Fortunately, these two things can go hand in hand, to bring down the differences and to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, to a huge rise in unemployment and for green jobs. Then we're going to lead a tax policy that re-distributes from those who have the most, to those who have the least, and from consumption to community, so that we get a fairer country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1374	Almost a bit of searching to have to cancel this cozy passionr. The representative Lightbakken was concerned with the vacancy and the measures taken. In a reply earlier today between the Right and the SV ask the Right if it writes that the State that owns will ensure that the Norwegian industry is commissioned. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen elaborated on it in an answer and said that then you should instruct Statoil to do different actions, well study, etc. Is there a new ownership policy on the SV side that either (a) the size, or (b) the government is now to instruct partially owned companies commercially – what projects are they going to enter into and what they are going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1381	No, it's not. We believe that ownership should be used. One of the important reasons why we are going to have public holdings in large companies is also that we can influence what some of the most powerful actors in Norwegian society are doing. SV has previously, e.g. in the case of oil sand projects, requested the State to make a clear commitment to Statoil. There are several ways that the state can ensure that we start projects that bring unemployment down and green change. Ownership policy is one thing, the role of the state that buys something else. There we also want a much more active policy than the government stands for, for example. as regards the tendering policy for ferries, or to say that the coastguard ships of Norway will be in the future, are actually to be built in Norway. It is fully possible if you have the will to rule and the will to intervene in favour of those who lack a job in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1388	I'm not going to encourage the Lightbaking to dream. I think it's better to stick to the facts in this case. After Snorre Serigstad Valen's posts a little while ago, I had a line that SV uses 3 billion. NOK to increase the car charge, i.e. an increase in the petrol and diesel charge of well over 1 kroner per litre, which affects low-income groups that depend on the car to get to and from work. Serigstad Valen replied that these funds were used to provide tax relief to those with the lowest income. I will be honest and say that I was unsure whether there was a proposal from the SV I had missed. I have then gone back and looked at the proposals from SV, and I cannot find that proposal from SV to reduce taxes to some low-income group. Can the Lysbaken direct me about where I can find these tax credits for these groups, or is it actually such that you do not propose tax credits, but just charge them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1395	I had really hoped to get questions about trams in Fauske, so we could continue the local political debate. I have to remind you that SV made a very good choice in Fauske, even if it is not a trip. I can tell Svendsen about it. If the representative Svendsen goes into our alternative budget for this year, he will see that in SV's alternative scheme there is more tax relief for those with low and medium labour income than the Progress Party has proposed and made clear. It is then common for the tax regime to be adjusted in the revised national budget, but the tax regime is adjusted in the government budget in the autumn. That is why the representative has to look into the draft budget to see the tax changes. But, of course, it's related. SV is both a red distribution party and a green environmental party. That's why it's right that we increase environmental taxes, but we also have redistributive tax proposals, which make ordinary people not getting bad out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1407	Much has happened since the budget was completed and aged in 2016. In December 2015, Norway concluded an agreement in Paris, which will have a very significant impact on the whole of Norway’s national economy and on our state budgets in the years to come. That agreement was reasonably concluded too late to be reflected in the 2016 budget, but it is more worrying that we also find very few traces of it in the revised budget. Here's a little polite mention of everything we're going to do in the future, but very few concrete budget measures. It is urgent, as we know — more than ever — to turn Norway into a low-carbon society. It's a very big project. It is a social project that needs to be done systematically and holistically, and that cannot be implemented by well-meaning individual actions while the main trends in oil pollution continue unrelentingly. On several occasions, the Climate Council of Vidar Helgesen has been rhetorical and determined that Norway should become a low-carbon society, but not a low-income society. Of course, we fully agree with the State Council of Helgesen, but we remember that the danger of becoming a low-income society is very small. Norway is among the 10 richest countries measured per capita, and there is an obvious possibility that we continue to have a high and good level of income in Norway. But then it was the second objective – that we should become a low-carbon society. We have a very long way to go. We're at the top of the wealthiest, but we're also at the top of the world, especially per capita, in terms of emissions, and so we're in the exceptional situation that we managed to increase emissions last year during this government. In other words, we have much left to do to make Norway a low-carbon society. At the same time, in a recent report, the International Monetary Fund has just reminded us that we need to make a transition away from oil and oil dependence. From the IMF it is not the climate objective of this that is underlined, but that unemployment is at risk of getting stuck over a longer period of time if we are dealing with this active transition. But in Norway, both the government and large sections of the opposition still spend a lot of time telling us that we will live on oil for both one and two generations to come. The revised budget lacks this focus. It's granted 1 billion. Extra to stimulate activity in the West, and that's good. The problem is that in a known style these means of combating unemployment are lubricated thinly beyond very much — including road construction. It is an excellent employment measure in itself, but it is not a measure of shifting society away from fossil dependence and from low emissions. Thus, there is one of many examples that we deliberately miss out on opportunities to use public investment to kick-start the green shift. At a time when there is a need to stimulate increased activity, we should stimulate green activity and low-emission activity. We need a kind of Norwegian ‘new green deal’ – a guide that enables us to concentrate the increased public investment on the development of new business activities that we will need in the low-carbon society. Government appropriations for environmentally friendly shipping are an example of this, but it is a rather lonely example, and that is a small example. The size has adopted a setting for the government's energy message. There were many proposals that the government would have had time to catch up and put into the revised budget, but the proposal that is being put up to now contains very little of this. One example is offshore wind betting, which the Stortinget adopted already last year, but which the government has overlooked. Another example is the faster expansion of charging corridors, hydrogen loading, shore current, electric coastal fleet, electrification or transition to hydrogen fuel on routes that are not electrified today, energy efficiency improvement in construction, etc. There are many good initiatives, but therefore difficult to see in the revised budget. Time goes by, and we have a sleeping cushion on which we rest too much, the oil fund. The government has been heavily criticized for increasing the withdrawal from the fund. Crisis times in themselves justify punching holes in the piggyback if you have a good enough purpose for it. However, that objective must be to convert Norway into a low-emission society, not general consumption growth and general investment in activities including activities that keep us from the low-emission society. We could increase the petrol charge, and there has been a small petrol charge-replicon exchange here. Then it is in their place to remember that the Norwegians paid three dollars more for petrol and diesel just a year ago without blonding very much than they do now. The sluggishness of charging in both these and other areas and using them for offensive green bets is significant. Something can be done with plastic packaging, something can be done with meat products, etc. to bring Norway in the right direction. We have to stop closing our eyes so we can't live off the oil forever. We need to make political choices that create the transformation that many people talk about, but that are not enough stakes on, and that we do not see in the revised budget. The Green Party will support the proposals of the Workers' Party and the SV for further action in fiscal policy that penalises emissions. This is a recognition of the purpose of green taxes and taxes as a tool for changing behaviour. However, if such charges are to work, they must be predictable over time, and they must not be removed when they begin to change their behaviour. It is unfortunately difficult to see that the Workers' Party has taken over this point. They decided, as they are well known at their national meeting, to pay an environmentally-differentiated fare based on a German model, but they propose, together with the Senterpartie, to cancel the fare for seats proposed by the government in Norway. I would then like to commend the Minister of Finance of the Progress Party for her staunch defence of this environmental tax, along with the Right. For us in the Green Party, this is a clear example of the fact that the Workers' Party has a piece to go before they become a tough partner for the Green Party in a tilting position at the 2017 Grand Prix. It is not only the economic policy that needs to be reformed, but also the industrial policy and labour market policy, among other things. The Greens want an active and green industrial policy. Therefore, we support proposals to explore a government guarantee scheme for debt obligations to land-based industries under the EEA rules, and I would like to stress that this scheme must have strict criteria to contribute to green innovation and industrial development. It should therefore be based on the ESA Environmental Aid Guidelines. We also support the Workers' Party's proposal that the government promote a strategy on how wage subsidies can be used as labour market measures to a greater extent than at present. We agree with the criteria proposed by the Labour Party, but once again it seems that the proposer has forgotten that a green shift is to be carried out in Norway, for such a scheme must, of course, favour enterprises and jobs that contribute to green innovation and jobs. Norway is in the midst of a trend of continued brown growth. In this area, we differ dramatically from our neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries and many other countries. Therefore, we need to actively target the economic instruments and other instruments to increase value creation significantly faster than the growth in consumption and CO2 emissions, so that fewer resources are used to create greater values. In that case, labour market measures must be set up in this way. One area where the energy nation of Norway can lead the green shift is the development of offshore wind. I therefore conclude by stating that we of course support the SV's good proposal to follow this up by empowering the Ministry of Oil and Energy to conclude agreements for 400 million. kr to continue working on a full scale demonstration project for sea wind in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1445	This government has made a record of oil money spending. They did so in the 2014 budget, the 2013 new age, the revised national budget for 2014, the 2015 budget, the 2014 new retirement age and the 2016 budget. The growth in oil money use with today’s government has been greater in three years than in the 10 previous years. While the use of oil money increased by about 6.5 billion. kr per year during the Stoltenberg II government, it increases by 25 to 30 million. kr per year with the Solberg Government. This record high use of oil money cannot be said to be sustainable, as the Thøgersen Committee also concludes. The government shows a lack of ability to prioritise for a demanding period of increasing unemployment. There are future generations that will be left with the bill. What does the Green Party think about the government's relationship with oil money and future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1452	Thank you for a good and important question. I have partly explained this in my article, and the Green Party is the party that has promoted an alternative state budget for 2016 with the lowest oil money use. We do, not because we think it is unthinkable to spend a lot of money in a transition period – we are actually a part of doing it – but we are also very concerned that Norway should get rid of the dependence on oil money and become friends to produce the money we need for our societal tasks, through other sustainable, not climate-friendly activities. And to do that, we need to produce the money in Norwegian society, including taking taxes where necessary, and not least environmental taxes where there is a need to distort consumption, but of course it needs to be done with a social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1458	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1461	The revised national budget for 2016 is a continuation of the economic policy that the government and the majority of the population have maintained since the 2013 elections. It is a policy for work, activity and change. Times change, and the challenges of society will vary, but they must be solved at all times so that our society remains the safe, good country we have. Norway has had a steady and very good growth in the last few decades. We who have lived through these very years can sign it. If I think back on my childhood and youth, today's society is quite different, and the prosperity development for all of us has been almost adventurous. But if we are to continue to maintain this standard of living in the future, it is absolutely necessary that productivity should grow faster than it has in recent years. This will require targeted reforms in the public sector and in the rest of the economy. In 2001, a unanimous financial committee pointed to the most important measures for the productivity and growth capacity of the economy to lead to a more efficient economy. Particular attention was paid to fiscal policy and to infrastructure, education and research. These policy areas are just as central and important today. High employment and low unemployment are becoming the main field of action. We need a flexible labour market with good mobility, which can adapt quickly to changes in labour demand. This is particularly important when parts of the economy are in transition. The government, through its package of measures, has contributed to more people’s work and activity. What is perhaps most important, however, is to secure the jobs that are and then create new ones. The public sector can make a significant contribution here. Increased transfers to municipalities and a general real growth in the local economy could lead to increased activity and employment. Well, it's so important that business is able to create new, sustainable jobs. Therefore, the private sector must have framework conditions that will lead to it, and here a right tax policy is crucial to achieving that objective. The government and the majority of the population have largely addressed precisely these challenges. Not long ago, Stortinget discussed the tax communication, a document on which it was broad, cross-political agreement. The conclusions and agreement on the direction of this policy will be crucial for a well-functioning business in the future. Reductions in corporate taxes and reductions in property taxes are good measures. In fact, the objective of a further reduction and, preferably, the elimination of taxes on wealth is not exactly where it should be. Some of us will repeat the requirement to remove the tax on working capital, because this will probably be the best measure to secure employment, especially in the many small and small businesses that we have in our country. In this respect, it appears important and gratifying that there is full support for proposals that owners of businesses that have deficits and otherwise have liquidity problems should be subject to the tax on wealth. Since this proposal has wide political ramifications, it must be acknowledged that wealth taxes linked to working capital can cause problems. In the context of job security measures, it is also important to give praise to the social partners and the very good contribution they make by agreeing on moderate wage settlements. There is every reason to stress this and once again state that we have a responsible and good cooperation system that produces such positive results. The NHO quarterly report presented yesterday provides a basis for conservative optimism. It is pointed out that economic developments may turn towards the end of the year and that the financial measures taken by the government are effective, in particular in the geographical areas affected by the fall in oil prices. So the work, activity and conversion policies are producing results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1480	As several have said, this is a revision of the budget we adopted before Christmas, and it is then natural to look back at the whole of the budget in this debate. The whole thing is that one in the government budget has been concerned with the need to stimulate value creation, the need to create values before they can be shared, and that we need to invest in knowledge, infrastructure development and facilitating private ownership. During the year, this direction has been followed up further with the start of work on the national transport plan and with the tax reform that we recently adopted. I note that several people in this room have previously mentioned the package of measures as a bluff. First of all, I don't think that, for example, Dalane Hageservice, who is carrying out the deforestation between Moi and Egersund, sees this money as a bluff, but rather as a loving contribution to keeping the activity up. Secondly, it is important to point out that the package of measures is only a small part of all the work done. Now, after the revised and budget agreement, it's about. 5 B.C.E. NOK 1250 billion. kr. Our most important grip is the whole, and we're combining long-term conversion with short-term grips. Strong growth in the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure works in the short term, while increased investment in knowledge, rail and road combined with reduced tax levels makes business better rusted into a day-to-day life that is no longer oil-dependent. For my county, Rogaland, the package of measures was further eaten before summer. I think the attention our state has received from the government helps to help create optimism. The business magazine Rosenkilden in Stavanger presents in its June edition a survey of 550 random enterprises in the region. The results of the survey show a growing optimism, and it is very gratifying to see an increasing number of business leaders now looking brighter in the future. They believe in more employees, increased turnover and better profitability. Safe governance and belief in your own policies can be a difficult exercise when it storms at worst, but now it's fun to see that it's approaching a turning point. We see more positive signals. The oil price has almost doubled since January, which in itself contributes to optimism. The unemployment rate in the county area is out. The same thing happens with the housing price drop, while there has been an increase of 15 pst. in the number of posts announced in May 2016 compared to May 2015. This, combined with the optimism of the business survey, gives reason to hope that the bottom has now been reached. I choose to be optimistic, and now, with a further strengthening of the measures aimed at Rogaland today, we are helping to put the worst behind us. However, I cannot stand here today and process the revision without asking for clarification from the Workers' Party. On page 26, they presented their table showing priorities and impacts in their option. But they haven't added these, so out of curiosity, I put it into a spreadsheet and did the job for them. If you add up the rows of increased expenditure and the rows of deposits, there's a difference of 171.25 million. kr. I am unable to understand this differently than the fact that the Workers' Party has sub-budgeted the deposits in its alternative proposal for a revised amount of 171.25 million. kr. I wonder if this can vote, and I ask the Labour Party to come up to the pulpit here today and confirm or cancel this. Based on the case papers, it seems like a summation error. This lacks detection, but I'm open that I've overlooked something. So if the Workers' Party has the opportunity to come up here and give a good explanation for this, I look forward to hearing it. I am recording that there is some absence from the Labour Party representatives in the Chamber now, but I hope that they will start summarizing, and that they will come up and explain. I have registered that there are 16 speakers from the Workers' Party who are going to say something, and I hope one of them can confirm or cancel what I have found.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1499	The next speaker is representative Stein Erik Lauvås. And the president shouldn't specify which party Lauvås comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1502	Today, the government parties have the Party of Advancement and the Right. The Left and Christian People's Party have the same opportunity, but will not use it. The passenger charge will be passed. If I or anyone else in the election campaign in front of the big elections in 2013 had claimed that if the Progress Party came into government with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance and Ketil Solvik-Olsen as Minister of Transport, that party would promote and support a charging policy that would lead to Norway losing 4 000 – 5 000 jobs related to aviation, then both the Progress Party and a number of others would think that there had been completely beyond claims, and that something such of course would never come up with. In its principal programme, the Progress Party has as its primary objective ‘strong reduction’ of fees and writes that Norway must ‘have stable framework conditions with minimum red tape and form fields’. It must be allowed to ask, what in the world happened to the principles of the Advancement Party? How was it possible for the Progress Party to adopt a policy that only in Eastfold leads to the loss of about a thousand jobs? There are private, profitable jobs that have contributed to growth and development and that would still have had the right of life if not the Progress Party, still for the ‘strong reduction’ of taxes and taxes, had introduced an airline passenger charge that now effectively eliminates these profitable jobs. And the second government party, right, is very well on the load. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has been a strong and clear defender of the levy, as the Economic and Social Committee itself says will eliminate 4,000–5000 jobs across the country. There are also formulations on the right in its programme: ‘we need to make it even better for private owners to want and invest in the development of Norwegian jobs’. And they continue: ‘A sound and innovative business policy is a crucial tool for job security’. It won't stop there. The right also writes that they will gradually reduce taxes ‘which inhibit investment in Norwegian jobs’. How was it possible for the Right to address and strongly defend a charging policy that is in conflict with what the Right itself believes? Here, the Progress Party and the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have adopted a levy without knowing the consequences, without consulting the social partners and without listening to others other than themselves. We'll see the results. As I said, the results of ‘new and better solutions’ with the Advance Party and the Right in Government are now coming up. They ensure that thousands of profitable jobs, private jobs, are laid down, and put people and businesses in total unforeseeable – across their own stated policies and what they have promised business. In addition, at the top of it all, we got a performance in political circus from the Progress Party that showed that the government party Progress Party was completely out of control, until the parliamentary leader, Harald T. Nesvik, finally had to decide that, in fact, the Progress Party is standing firm by introducing the air passenger fee. The result is that the Minister of Labour gets even more people to take care of in his Nav offices over the fall and winter. The notification has come from Onyøe, SAS and Norwegian. They say that routes will be cut and jobs will disappear across the country. This is government policy. It's completely incomprehensible. And it would have been completely unnecessary – so much has leaked out of the negotiations. There were other possibilities for the state treasury to be filled with this extra billion. But now the government gets to take a summer vacation, knowing that it could act differently. It could save these 4,000-5 000 jobs. It wouldn't. It's really just sad, but it's sad for those who now lose their income and their jobs. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Workers' Party will support the request decision on page 10 of the recommendation that the government follow closely the developments in the framework conditions and options for aerodromes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1521	It is true that there is a revised budget we are discussing today, but after following the debate, I still think it is alarming how the representatives of the Right and the Progress Party appear more as auditors than as representatives of the big business with political objectives. We got a little while ago that the representative Roy Steffensen had come across a summation error. It aroused so much enthusiasm that he used large parts of his post to build an expectation around this summation error. In the fight against unemployment, there is a package of measures. It's not clear how big he is. When a representative from a government party finds someone who works on a project that comes as a result of the action package, there is evidence that the action package exists and that he is as big as the government claims. It's not like that. There is evidence that a package of measures exists. We have never opposed this, which we have opposed, is the size of this package of measures, and we have still not received an answer to that. We often hear that the Minister of Finance refers to the considerable investment effort in the way, but it is worth noting that after three out of four years of the first NTP plan period for 2014-2023, the government is behind the red-green government for investment. Where they are well located, they are for tolls, but not for investments. We also know that the road company Nye Vegar AS, who was presented that they would receive 5 billion kroner. SEK in 2016 and 5 billion. In 2017, I have received a little over 1 billion kroner. kr the first year, and it is announced that only in 2018 the road company will have the 5 billion. kr as they were promised from year one. So a few words about the fare: it's a terrible business policy, and it's a terrible environmental policy. I thought Svein Flätten said it very well as he would explain why the fee could be justified without having an environmental impact. He said this to NTB on 30 November last year: ‘It is equally important to ensure budgetary containment’. And that's what this is all about. The level of fees is determined according to the budgetary needs, not according to any environmental needs. What I'm most concerned about when it comes to the fee is that it seems that the government has no plan at all for how to operate an important commitment that the majority of people had then introduced the fee, that transfer passengers should go free. In the original proposal by the Minister of Finance, there was a requirement for a cooperation agreement, just to have a transfer between the airlines so that transfer travellers would not pay double. Then there was criticism from ESA, and then the finance minister chose to take those points out. In order to satisfy ESA, the Minister of Finance has actually undermined one of the statements made by Stortinget to impose the levy. I wonder: if a family of five is going to travel from Stokmarknes to what we call the South, they will take first onions from Stokmarknes to Bodø. Then they travel from Bodø to Oslo with Norwegian, they travel from Oslo to the South with a charter company, and they travel the same route back. They could then risk that the family would have to pay NOK 2 160 in the air passenger fee. It was not the desire of the Advance Party, because the Progress Party only wanted to make this South turn $880 more expensive. So there's no plan, no model, for how to ensure that you don't have to pay more fees than you're charged, and that's a problem. This is what I think the Minister of Finance has to clarify. Who should a turn around to? Should this family make contact with Onderøe, should they contact Norwegian, should they contact their charter company, or should they contact the Ministry of Finance in order to get back the NOK 1280 that one may have risked having paid too much? This I think we should have had an answer on a long time ago, but I hope that we might get an answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1545	We just have the 200th anniversary of Norway Bank. Feiraringa took place on 14 June in Trondheim, on the day 200 years after the establishment of the most important financial institution in Norway. The Central Bank Governor brought us in the anniversary speech to the bank from the specialist until today's seat row, about the Bank's role and mandate as the executive and advisory body for money, credit and monetary policy for Norway Bank's important task of promoting stability in the economy – as well as important tasks in managing our common savings fund, the State pension fund abroad. Many have happened in 200 years, the Norwegian economy has changed, and we have been through many changes in the economy over time. It's a conversion that characterizes the time we're in now. With the fall in oil prices in 2014 and the increase in oil investment, unemployment in the country has increased, but of course most in the South and West, where jobs are most closely related to oil-related business. Several measures targeted specifically at the South and the West were adopted in the 2016 budget, and they have been further reinforced in this revision of the budget. The NHO now reports that the financial measures directed at these regions seem to work. It is undoubtedly also the most important task in the future to facilitate the creation of more secure jobs across the country. The government’s response to this challenge is to pursue a policy that stimulates growth in private competitive business through growth-promoting tax incentives, by focusing on knowledge, research and development and through the use of time in transport. The head of central government also said in the year before this year that the transitions must ‘have their origins in the business world’. Moreover, ‘economic policy can only facilitate this process’. There is considerable investment behind each job in business. It is unlikely to be exciting to meet young entrepreneurs who, with great enthusiasm, have faith in their own projects to create more and new jobs. Torgeir Straand in the Technology Park on Notodden is such a founder, who just two weeks ago had a visit by the Prime Minister. The oil engineer, inventor and founder, through technology expertise from the oil sector, has developed a whole new technology that cleans up 99-100 pst. of all oil from water. When you know what oil pollution is doing, this is a big news for the environment. We need such young entrepreneurs who think new and see opportunities for the development of new products, and we need an instrument to facilitate this kind of transformation and product development. Norwegian capital and Norwegian owners contributed to the start-up and conversion of several Norwegian companies. It's positive, but we also have to be louder about what these Norwegian owners distribute to us when it's about the strange wealth tax. As time has passed, it may seem that most parties see that this tax has clearly negative effects. Undershooting enterprises must pay property taxes, while foreign owners do not pay this tax. It's like head Arthur Brunvoll of Brunvoll AS pronounced: It doesn't help being Therese Johaug when one starts 10 minutes after Charlotte Kalla. – Or as owner of Rauma Ullvarefabrik A/S, Arnstein Digernes, says: It is a paradox that ignited capital that has been systematically ploughed back in the form of operating assets and has transformed the enterprise into a competitive enterprise has become one of the company’s main challenges. This government has reduced the wealth tax on each of the budgets, and it is positive that the tax settlement was also broadly based on a 20 pst revaluation discount. before 2018. In this context, it is very positive that the government now in the revised budget announces that in the context of the State budget, one wishes to come back with a proposal for a temporary deferred property tax scheme for owners of enterprises that have a deficit in the accounts and that it will aim for the scheme to apply from this year onwards. In addition, in connection with the 2017 State budget, one comes back with the possibility of a time-limited discount in the property tax for founders on the stock exchange introduction of the respective company. This shows a government taking seriously the signals from business, and the revised national budget reinforces efforts for work, activity and change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1568	Lauvås and more from the Workers' Party have apparently read our program and are disappointed that we do not follow it in terms of both fees and tolls. Perhaps it was an idea if Lauvås and the others in the Workers' Party who support the Advance Party's programme so vigorously voted in favour of the Advance Party, because then we would have greater impact here on the Stortinget. I have a member's block in the office, and they're invited here. But since the Workers' Party has spent a lot of time today and the later days talking about government and the Advance Party's policy – not just talking about our policy, much of the main comment is about describing how miserable government policies are, and little about my own policy – I thought I would help them promote their own policies. Firstly, the introductory part of the main comment on the Workers' Party states: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party indicate that the budgetary priorities are made visible through the examination of the State budget each harvest. The revised budget shall be a revision of the budget adopted, taking into account up-to-date estimates and may adjust for unforeseen events arising from the adoption of the budget.’;» I fully agree with this, but when one reads the Labour Party's proposal for a revised budget, it seems more and more like a full budgetary procedure, especially on the fee side. For what do you say about the dramatic increase in diesel taxes, increased the cost to business of nearly one billion dollars — and at a time when unemployment is rising? Whether this is a contribution from the Workers' Party to predictability for business and the population, I am uncertain about, but it is at least a significant contribution to weakening the profitability of business, which in turn can lead to fewer jobs in industries dependent on transporting the goods they produce to the market. Funding packages is unlikely to reduce unemployment by imposing charges that are most likely to lead to more unemployed people. But it doesn't stop there, because what do you say to 10 pst? an increase in the NOx charge on the import of cars, in a country that already has the world’s highest level of car charges, or 3 pst. increase in tobacco taxes and 3 pst. increase in alcohol levies? The increase in these charges will further strengthen border trade, while making smuggling more profitable. But it won't stop there. The base tax on mineral oil is increased by 5 pst., the CO2 tax on mineral products is increased by 5 pst., the increased levy on juice and in addition the tax-free quotas - etc., etc. This is not much like what the Labour Party says in its own comment, where the revision should be exactly that, a revision of the adopted budget where one adjusts for unforeseen events. It would have been interesting to hear from the Workers' Party what unforeseen events have occurred since the budget was adopted that could provide the basis for these massive increases in the fees for the most people. As if that's not enough, it's probably a group to be taken, and it's the boat crew. The Workers' Party has now wisely proposed that diesel used on boat engines should be subject to a user charge. Where the Workers' Party retrieves its logical connections, I don't understand. But why a boat should pay the user fee is completely incomprehensible to me. The government of Stoltenberg wrote in a budget when a user charge on fuel was introduced that it would reflect the cost of the car's use of the road. As most people know – with the possible exception of the Workers' Party – boats are used on the sea or in water, and not on the road, and therefore there is no wear on the road. I hope the boat crew has come to realize that the Workers' Party wants to charge for the use of nature further for this group of outdoor people. This is quite the opposite, so we also removed the so-called horsepower tax on boat engines a few years ago. The Labour Party uses every opportunity to tell the Norwegian people that the government is giving tax credits to the rich, but they are not content to tell us that they are increasing what is happening unsocially, namely the fees. If you depend on using the car for commuting to and from work and have an income of NOK 200000, you will notice a sharp increase in the diesel tax, as the Workers' Party suggests. On the other hand, you have income of 2 million. kr, you don't notice. That means that the Workers' Party, with its proposal, punishes those who have the least, and those who depend on the car, while those who have the most, escape. This is not a policy for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1591	It's a record high unemployment in our country. 135,000 people are out of work. It's demanding for those who become direct frames, and it's demanding for their family, but it's also -- not least -- serious for our society. I note that in spite of the time required for the country, the important discussion we now have in this Chamber, that is, the parliamentary leaders of the Right and the Progress Party, neither to be present during the debate nor to sign up – at least so far – until the debate we have here today. It sends a very clear signal that this is not a priority arena or a priority discussion for them to take to defend the missing priorities they have made to meet the increasing unemployment. I invite them to come here and defend the party they stand for and have presented in the revised national budget. We know that long-term unemployment primarily contributes to increased social security, not to increased migration. Nevertheless, we have a government that talks about increasing unemployment primarily as a tool to convert the country. It's not just a waste of resources, it's a dangerous cut-off of the portal into the world of work -- a life that builds up a future saying. Working for everyone is the most important response to the major challenges facing the community – whether it is about financing our well-being, society's value-making or integration. Our policies in the Workers' Party are not only limited to fighting unemployment in the oil and gas sector in the short and long term, we also need to talk about all the people who are out of work today but who have the desire, the ability and the desire to contribute. It is an important political task to build up the obstacles they can face on the way to working life. We see that more and more young people are part of unemployment statistics, more and more young boys, and that the number of young men is increasing among those with part-time jobs. It's important for us as a society that we make it easier to get a foot in the world of work as early as possible, because it has such great consequences both for individuals and for society as well as for health. We see that there are many women with immigrant backgrounds who are not an active part of the working life, of society. We know that four out of ten women with a migrant background, according to the Evening Post, are without education or work. We have an important task in including them in order to have the same possibilities as the Norwegian ladies. We know that there are many senors in our country, well-adult people with a lot of skills, who want to stay longer in work, who want to use the knowledge they've acquired for quite a number of years. We are forced to make better use of that resource to be with us any longer. For Norway, everyone needs. We all need each other because our value creation is totally dependent on it, both economically and non-economically. So increasing professional competence and not least professional competence for more is one of the main answers from the Labour Party. It's one of the things that must be the main road for Norway for the future. We cannot compete on pay or work terms, what we must compete for are knowledge, skills and that we also have the world's best workers in the future. Therefore, we will clearly prioritize the building of competences in our budgets. In our proposal for a revised national budget, we present a competence reform and a package of measures that support it. The package covers, for the first time, young people who are undergoing vocational training in an advanced school, in order to get more people to carry out the training, so that we can get more elephants in practice in the past. We propose, therefore, a system of economic incentives for companies that adopt elephants in early practice as part of the exchange model. Our package also includes engineers who become available in the offshore industries and want further training or retraining to other sectors. Then we have listened to recordings from, among others. NITO, which points to a high need for engineers in the health sector. By providing for this type of retraining, Norway can be better equipped to meet important needs in hospitals. This package also includes those who have recently come to the country. He is concerned with the effective monitoring of skills and working capacity and with the faster recognition of foreign education. I want to say that it's along the competence track that we find the tools for conversion and for building futures for Norway. It is not in Nav's solution set. We need a government that understands it, that prioritizes it, that delivers it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1617	Here on the house there are many jubilees – happy anniversarys – for the time being. But in a few weeks we are approaching a more gloomy anniversary. Then it is two years since the ongoing unemployment crisis started – two long years since unemployment began to rise dangerously. Jubilee gives us as well-known room for a little review, so here are some figures from the crisis: from June 2014 to June 2015, Nav received over 36 000 notices of cancellations and lay-offs. In this room a year ago, Minister of Finance Siv Jensen marked the one-year anniversary of saying that the government's policy is well adapted to the Norwegian economy. It wasn't. The size and the rest of the country took a summer vacation. At the same time, 700 new jobs were lost only last July. Since then, unemployment has only continued to increase. A total of almost 37,000 oil jobs have been cut alone. The availability has spread through the supply industry and now affects hotels, restaurants and the rest of the service industry. Norway is now experiencing record high unemployment — the highest in excess of 20 years. Almost no government in modern times has made it. It's just to congratulate the government on the anniversary. At the same time, we also mark another anniversary: a new Norway record in passive wait-and-see attitude. Never before have we had a government that has been so passive and only waited while the unemployment continues to rise. And after hearing the Minister of Finance today, it seems that she is particularly pleased with this record. A year ago she rejected the fact that unemployment was a problem, the budget was well adapted to the economy. Now she understands how difficult it is to lose the job. But the measures, I mean, do not match the seriousness of the crisis. Nav, SSB and the Ministry of Finance expect unemployment to continue to rise through 2016. I want to warn you that optimism is now becoming a sleep cushion – record many people do not have a job, and they want to work. They must enter the labour market. The Right Party and the Advance Party have always been in arrears in the face of the crisis. Measures against youth unemployment were repeatedly voted down in this room before the Christian People's Party forced through some small suggestions. The need for a targeted package of measures against the South-West was really unnecessary, until the Workers' Party promoted its package of measures and got the debate speeded up, and the government submitted its proposal. The changes in the legislation on permitting were labour lock-in until the social partners forced the government to act. The point by point of the Right and Advance Party lists is at least not their merit. Siv Jensen should rather use the opportunity to thank Christian People's Party for the measures against youth unemployment Workers' Party for the measures addressed to the South-West social partners for the changes in the legislation on leave The debate today has only reinforced this picture. The representative Fleet from the Right spoke hot about conversion. But the government's main effort is massive tax cuts that have not created a single job. This year, only 4,000 new jobs have been created, with 3 000 in the state bureaucracy. The fleet should perhaps also be honest – this is not a change of pace, new jobs are not created, and the Right prioritises tax cuts for its rich friends. The representative Limi from the Progress Party was afraid to blow up public consumption. Has the representative forgotten that the growth in bureaucracy has accelerated with the Progress Party in government, with nine new bureaucrats every day? The representative Steffensen has taken on the auditor's hat. I can comfort him that our calculation goes up. His claim is directly wrong, it is speculative, and such untruths should not be repeated in such serious debates. The progress party should show the same touching care for calculations regarding the use of oil money and the government's package of measures, and I invite Steffensen to my office, where we post for mail can go through our bets and our coverage, and hopefully he can be a little inspired. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has other answers to meet this crisis. We want the activity in industries that are struggling. The availability of construction is increasing dramatically, and therefore we will double the maintenance package to the South and West so that the rapporteurs in Sandnes and Eigersund can build new schools and kindergartens and hire more teachers, make the school better, instead of the redundancies they now face. We need to bet on skills, on education. In Stavanger, I meet engineers who have applied for over 100 jobs, who are ready for conversion, but who do not get the training they need. In our draft revised budget, we put in 100 million. kr more for a comprehensive package of competences. We also need an active enterprise policy that creates new jobs. We have a historic opportunity to use this decline to build new industries, and then we need to continue the good interaction between the state, industries and employees, which is the success of the Norwegian model. My party leader pointed to the possibilities in the ocean room. I have even made proposals today on space. Travel industry has many good hotel rooms, and renewable offshore wind can take advantage of the vacuum in which the wind blows. Norway has many areas where we have different advantages. It requires strong efforts and active industrial policies to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1661	As many have commented, Norway is in a difficult economic situation, mainly driven by a fall in oil prices. However, the government's targeted policy of transforming Norway from an oil-based economy to more long-term sustainable jobs in the private sector is in the process of delivering results. The previous government had the largest economic space of action any government has ever had, where they increased the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. In 2012, it was invested at 200 billion. SEK in petroleum-based industries, against 20 billion. kr on the mainland. A little was done to prepare Norway for the changes that everyone has known would come, regardless of the large fall in oil prices, and had the previous government started the necessary conversion with its economic operating space, the fall height would not have been so high for so many when the oil price fell. This government began its work of converting Norway from one day to another, with reforms already in progress, close-up police reform, higher education reform, rail reform, community reform and moderate changes in the Labour Environment Act. The only ones in deficit are the parties that are consistent with change and say they will reverse the measures that this government has taken to strengthen the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare seat over time. Now, among other things, say: NHO that the incentives of economic policy are beginning to work. Their second quarterly report shows emerging future-optimism among the 2,000 NHO member companies that have responded to questions such as: market situation, prospects, investments and crew plans. Stein Lier-Hansen, Managing Director of Norwegian Industry, is among those who see how Norwegian policy works: ‘A reason why the unemployment rate is not higher is that the authorities have put in place a number of measures. It has helped to keep the time off.’» These measures are effective, both in terms of the overall long-term measures to improve the business environment and the targeted, more short-term measures to combat unemployment. However, action packages also need to be carefully transformed. The transitions also have to go their way, and we actually learned that from the financial crisis, when the red-greens made sure to maintain capacity within industries where the market had failed. Aid and cheap loans, e.g. to supply ships resulted in an even greater overcapacity in a market that is not going to deal with the first. So the fall gets even bigger when it comes first. Competing on the use of public money, or getting ‘more ‘cool’’, as the representative Hagebakken said, can make things worse. According to the SSB, the total employment growth in the private sector also fell from 2008 to 2013. So these are the jobs we're still hearing the Workers' Party boasted of having created. Action packages for increased public consumption stimulating transport, construction and installations led to cheaper labour migrants replacing costly Norwegians. We also saw an increasing labour-life crime associated with those changes. The third person employed in the public sector, they are still there, while some immigrants are now returning because of the economic opportunities that have changed. There is no need to raise ‘more ‘cool’ on such a policy. The measures taken by the government have come with them, have come in time and have been well adapted to the situation in Norway. We don't think permitations will create new jobs, nor tax Norwegian business owners more, which has been largely the opposition's response. For the Right, it is important to create more jobs that contribute to the State budget, not more that live on the State budget. Today we have a welfare state at the top of the world, but it must also be financed tomorrow. Therefore, we need long-term solutions for sustainable jobs over time. It also means a robust private business, which does not live by employing itself through public action budgets. The government's economic policy, with reduced taxes and a stronger commitment to research, education and infrastructure, facilitates conversion and new jobs, which I think we have heard well in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1686	I have registered that the representative Roy Steffensen was not present to hear the answer to the calculation he could not. The revised budget confirms that the Right and Advance Party have poor governance of the economy and that they have for a long time underestimated unemployment. This has led to a loss of time and a delay in action. The situation in the South-West is well known, but also elsewhere in the country, unemployment is increasing. Unemployment is something that can go up quickly, but slowly down. This is why early action is so important. With 135 000 unemployed and halved growth in the Norwegian economy, it is clear that government policy does not work. They're taking a full 10 billion. from the Oil Fund, but less than one tenth of the increase in oil money consumption is directed towards reducing unemployment. The action space is spent on tax cuts for those who have the most, without having any impact on employment. In a May SSB report, they conclude that general passenger tax is a much less effective measure to reduce unemployment rapidly than increased public investment and is clearly the most effective measure to increase public employment. This underlines what the Workers' Party has been saying all along: tax incentives are very effective for increased differences, but have little effect on job creation. However, despite the lack of results, the government maintains that tax cuts should contribute to conversion and growth. The Labour Party believes that if we keep people working, we will be able to do much better with change. The Labour Party has given priority to targeted measures against increasing unemployment, including: through a 75 pst. a larger package of measures than the government proposed in the 2016 budget and a total of 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities, so that they can make investments. Unfortunately, the government parties and their partners voted against the Stortinget proposals. However, it is positive that the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to increase the level of action against unemployment somewhat, but that is far from enough. The government’s action package after the revised budget is still around 2 billion. kr lower than the Workers' Party proposed in the treatment of the State budget for 2016. The Labour Party mainly supports the measures in the conciliation, but therefore proposes far stronger instruments for increased activity, help for those who lose their jobs, including empowerment measures, measures for conversion and new jobs. The working party also proposes to reverse the air passenger charge and replace it with real environmental taxes. I would like to encourage Eastfold's representatives from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party not only to say that they are against the air passenger fee, but actually also to vote in favour of our proposal to reverse it. The air passenger charge is far more efficient to cut jobs than to cut emissions. Moss airport Rygge has now been decided upon. Up to 1 000 jobs are lost. 1 000 new people enter the unemployment line. Even more jobs are lost on a national basis. Investments are deflated because of the uncertainty about the business environment created by this government. The fee was adopted without knowledge of its consequences. It is not about cutting emissions, but about providing revenue for other priorities in the budget. When the Minister of Finance repeats and repeats that the government has reduced taxes and taxes to keep jobs and create new ones, it becomes quite incomprehensible that she is insisting on keeping the exact air passenger charge, which gives the opposite. The government has set itself up to hit Ryanair, but affects the workplaces and Eastfold’s development instead. It is this that will stand as the Solberg government did for Eastfold. What is also serious is that the random budgeting by the government, without impact assessments, creates uncertainty and uncertainty about the basis of important infrastructure for jobs and industries, when we need the opposite. Disappointed rapporteurs from the Right now ask for a separate package of measures to be taken to Eastfold and call Eastfold the forgotten county. I can understand that. The Workers' Party therefore proposes to reverse the government's air passenger fee, and we also support the request decision to ask ‘the Government to follow closely the developments and changes in the framework conditions and options for airports and to give a thorough assessment of the situation, in particular of the future role of non-governmental airports in the Eastern region, in the context of the 2017 budget’. We propose our own measures against unemployment in the South of the West and general measures aimed at the rest of the country, which are also struggling. Losing the job and becoming unemployed are not only serious for those affected. Increased unemployment rates are also serious for the country. Work is important both for economic growth and sustainability and to avoid poverty and social exclusion. This takes the Workers' Party seriously. Work for all is the Red Thread of the Labour Party in the budget for 2016 and in the revision thereof.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1707	We are now well into the third year when the country is headed by a budget submitted by the new government. It makes us start to see some developments in what changes with the government shift. The price is changed and the Norwegian model is challenged. The most obvious example of this is the increased unemployment, which has been met with an incredible passivity. But it's a warning passivity. As early as June 2014, I had an interpellation with the Prime Minister about the challenges that we then began to face in the labour market, before the oil price fell, and about the need for all departments to have the ambition to contribute to the achievement of our most important economic goal, namely full employment through politics. Then I received a reply from the Prime Minister that it was too early to take action, but they would follow the situation carefully. Since it has the government followed the situation closely. It was underlined by the Minister of Finance, as the same spring in this Chamber actually said that it was important not to take early action against unemployment. And now we see the result. It is under pressure from us, under pressure from the local authorities, under pressure from the business community, and not least from the social partners, that some changes in labour market policy have gradually been made. Now the government has to do a little about measures, permitting and creating activity in the municipalities. So it's not a government that leads in a vulnerable situation for the country, but it has to be pressed. As a result, we have a record unemployment rate. We have a youth unemployment rate of over 11 p.m., and the statistics show an increasing number of long-term unemployed. A result of this is, of course, increasing differences in society. When a co-cuts in the benefits of those who are thrown out into unemployment, it is a good recipe for those who will have greater differences in society. And just increasing differences in society was the starting point for an interpellation that I had to the Minister of Labour here for a short time ago. It was answered by the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance claimed that the differences did not increase. As a result, I sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance asking if the Council of State could document it, and was told by the Ministry of Finance that the differences are increasing. Of course, they do when you choose a policy for increasing differences. Now we're starting to look at the statistics, even though it's one year behind. We see it by the fact that the pay gap in society is actually increasing. We see it by the fact that the differences in wealth are increasing. Several of us have participated in the debate around and read with interest Thomas Piketty's description of the bias it leads to in society. Now let's go the way we want to go. On the Gini coefficient, which describes the differences in society, we get worse. And the number of social welfare recipients is increasing. This is a result of systematic attacks on the Norwegian model of society, which have helped to make small differences in society. The government is attacking the economic part of the Nordic model by not wanting to collect, above the tax, what is necessary to finance a well-being society, and by not using the tax system for cohesion but for increasing differences. They attack the model of cooperation in the Norwegian model by overcoming the social partners. Now it is even such that pensioners do not even get their own social security bill for treatment in Stortinget, because they should not be heard. This also attacks the welfare model. It might not be so surprising. The Minister of Finance has said ten times in his national meeting that the Norwegian model should be attacked. What is surprising is that we have a prime minister who is so absent from his political leadership that she actually lets that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1728	Yesterday the NHO could report that there is an emerging optimism among businesses. That's a good sign. That's a good sign for the many people who have lost their jobs after the oil price fell from $120 to the $30-40 barrel. It is a good sign for young people on the way out of the educational institution and on the way into work. But let me be equally clear that that doesn't mean that the job is done. We have a tough choice, and we are in a tough situation, after the oil price fell from 120 to 30 to 40 dollars in the barrel. It has consequences. Many people have already lost their jobs, some live in uncertainty, and of course it also affects public budgets — both in government and municipal budgets. This is why the government has measures for work and activity, so that more people can get to work faster. I myself have had the pleasure of being out in several jobs where people have got a job with a background in the government's package of measures – at the hospital in Arendal, at the rehabilitation, in Sola, with both public construction and municipal kindergarten being cleaned up. But at the same time, we have to make sure that we have measures for long-term conversion, that we get to the green shift. That is why the government is focusing on infrastructure, roads, public transport, rail, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that we are focusing more on research, on new technology and on the green shift than ever. This is why the government improves the framework conditions for maritime nutrition, for marine nutrition, that we facilitate the mineral industry, and that there is more activity. The Labour Party failed on its guard. We promote measures for increased competitiveness, for more value creation, but the previous government prioritised different. And yes, the government has also lowered taxes. This is because we are convinced that through tax cuts, more people will be able to invest more money in Norwegian jobs. We've actually reduced the tax on businesses and for people with 17 million dollars. kr every day since the government change. But what has been the Labour Party's response, the Labour Party representatives who have in turn been up in the pulpit and just criticised? Indeed, the main measures taken by the Labour Party against unemployment are higher taxes. Only in 2016 does the Labour Party propose that Norwegian workers and enterprises receive 29 million. kr in increased taxes – every single day. Then I have also received the Workers' Party-paid report from the SSB, which shows that it is easier to use money than to create new jobs. But the answer to the challenges we are now facing is not to increase taxes on Norwegian jobs. Two days ago, we discussed the municipal proposition in Stortinget. Then the Workers' Party had a proposal to increase the income of the municipalities by a further 3 billion. kr. Where did the Workers' Party intend to take that money from? Is it by using even more oil money, or is it by sending an even greater tax bill to those who create businesses and Norwegian jobs? And the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, said at the end of his speech that the government is attacking welfare. What do you think about? Is it that health cows go down, that we're spending more on drugs and mental health than ever? We are making sure that Norway is ready for the future, creating a safer future, but we are also doing important tasks today, by strengthening the well-being of individuals, by contributing to the decline of health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1744	One of the municipalities affected by bankruptcy and low oil prices is the municipality of Sør-Varanger. Last autumn, there were also very many asylum seekers across the border of Storskog. It took a very long time before the government mobilized people and other resources to deal with the situation, and in the absence of state intervention rigged the South Varanger municipality's arrival reception and order. Now is the time to settle the bill, and the status today is that the municipality has spent 10 million. kr that the State refuses to pay, and the case may end in the legal system. Does the Minister of State think that the thank you to our border municipality for putting up the last harvest is that they now have to put down building schools and cut off other services because they took the responsibility the government did not take?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1751	There's a description of the situation last fall that I don't know about, at all. It was a very demanding situation, in which we saw that the state authorities cooperated and interacted well, where we had a good cooperation with the municipalities, and especially with the KS, and where I think there is good reason to give great favour to the municipalities that set up. In 2013, when the Workers' Party ruled Norway, there were about 6 000 residents in Norwegian municipalities. This year, Norwegian municipalities will receive about 16 000. We're going to make arrangements for municipalities to expand more housing, as well as making it possible for those who are refugees today to become Norwegian citizens tomorrow. With regard to the specific question raised by the representative Helga Pedersen, the representative Pedersen also knows that there is a question under the Ministry of Justice and not a question on which it is natural that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation should give an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1760	I might have expected the municipal minister to engage in the financing of municipalities that are in all ways in a difficult situation, and I believe that for the municipality of South Varanger it is nice to get honey, but it is the money that counts. But this merges into a larger image. North Norway has had a very positive development over the last ten years. This is a very good starting point for creating further growth and new jobs, but unfortunately our part of the country doesn't seem to have government on its side. The government has cut 400 million. kr to the Nordic counties, cut in regional development funds and in the marine value creation programme. The introduction of a seat tax, the introduction of an employer’s fee in the transport industry, the centralisation of a number of state agencies, the centralisation of power – and this is how we can continue. So my question is, what's the government got against North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1769	What kind of questions are there – at a time when we really feel that it is in North Norway that it is happening, and where North Norway has a government that plays along with North Norway by facilitating business activities? I myself have authorised a mining project in Rana, which has been cheering at the rapporteur of the Labour Party. We're making bigger investments in transport than ever, and if there's something the companies are busy about, it's just that we're making provision for infrastructure, so that the goods can get into the market faster. And then it's true that we've changed the county's income system, because the Workers' Party failed on its watch. The reality is that the county income system dates back to the 1990s, but the red-green government did not dare to implement changes, it did not update in relation to the changes in society that have occurred. We did that job, and that still means that North Norway gets significantly more than most other county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1779	I don't think this description of reality is something that people in North Norway are familiar with. When almost half a billion dollars were cut to counties, who are responsible for higher education and transportation, I don't think the people's opinion is that the Workers' Party has failed. This is cut by the government parties. Here you can ask a lot of questions. The right went to the choice to cut taxes, but you should also really make a difference when it comes to transportation and higher education. When you see that it is cut in traffic in North Norway, quite significant too, and that the Nordic county councils have to cut into higher education in a situation where the dropout is very high, my question is: why is it much more important for the government to fulfill its electoral commitments on tax cuts than in school and transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1791	The government invests more in transport and in knowledge than ever before. The reality is that we have increased income for municipalities far more than what we have reduced taxes, but reducing taxes is also important in a situation where many jobs and businesses are struggling. The answer to the challenges facing business today is not, like the Workers' Party, to increase taxes. There will be no more jobs by sending larger bills to those who create Norwegian businesses. The government has a good mix of tools to speed up business, with investment in transport, with investment in knowledge, with investment in environmental technology, by facilitating marine nutrition and maritime nutrition and also for the mineral industry. There are important measures to ensure long-term migration. For Northern Norway, investment in rural roads has increased more than what we have reduced regional development funds with, because if there is some demand from businesses, then there is investment in transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1799	Thanks to the irresponsible policies of the Progress Party and the Right, unemployment in Eastfold is at risk of increasing violently, up to 1000 new people may lose their jobs. Eastfold and the Mosse region are an area that already has an unemployment rate higher than the national average, and the Right's own rapporteur, Tage Pettersen, has been very critical of the absence of measures for the Moss and Eastfold regions in the revised national budget. Why is it that if you have a municipality with a high unemployment rate in the South and West, you need extra funds, but if you have a municipality with an even higher unemployment rate, just that it is in Eastfold, you shouldn't get money? Isn't it just as bad to be unemployed in Moss as in the West, even though it's the government's fault that one gets unemployed in Moss, in the West there are more complex reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1804	This is a rather interesting question, because last autumn the criticism from the red-green parties was that the package of measures was not targeted enough. Now, when we further target the measures, the criticism is that it is not in general enough. The reality is that we have a large government budget that facilitates the promotion of work, activity and value creation across the country, but then we are in the acute situation that in a short time we have got an oil price that has gone from $120 to $30-40 the barrel. In this situation, we believe it is right to target the measures precisely to the South of the West, to ensure that several of those who lose their jobs can get a safe job to do, but it is then in addition to the general government measures that apply to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1809	I could add on behalf of the cooperation parties that the action package will benefit all municipalities with a higher unemployment rate than the national average, regardless of geography. But that was not what I was actually going to ask questions about. In the 2016 government budget agreement, the government was given the task of returning to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with concrete proposals for following up the report to the Productivity Commission, in particular to reduce red tape and streamline the state, a mission that one cannot say the government has followed very closely. One of the obvious things pointed out by the Productivity Commission is that there is little comparison between the size of the counties and the regional breakdowns of government agencies, and that different levels have different regional breakdowns. It prevents good cooperation between the state and the state and the state inwards and prevents effective administration. The question to the Council of State is whether it will take the initiative to clean up this conglomerate of different solutions when new and larger regions are to replace the present state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1818	The answer to that question is yes. On the government side, we have presented a communication on new regions, and that communication came after the cooperation with the Left made it clear that we should have a regional reform. In that communication, we have announced that we will have about ten regions, providing a basis for the state level to gradually become more consistent with the regional borders. We have taken a concrete look at what is going on about Innovation Norway, Siva and the Research Council, so in this area, it is, in very many other areas, a very good cooperation between the Left and the government parties, and we find solutions. Let me also say that in the case of the Productivity Commission, we're following it up. We cut into operation at state establishments 0,5–0,6 pst. Every year, we remove time thieves, we digitize, and today I have presented significant simplifications in the plan part of the Planning and Building Act. It will speed up housing, and it will provide faster processes and less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1825	I am absolutely sure that it would have been good for the unemployed if the SV's budget for the municipalities had been approved, with 6 billion. kr more, there had been many more teachers, kindergarten teachers, caregivers, nurses, etc. And maybe a little bit bit less rich billionaires, and that's what I think the country had lived well with. The Council of State took this up with young people who are now on the threshold and are going out to work, many of whom are waiting for apprenticeship. There has been a strengthening in this area on the part of the government – it should be commended – but the problem here is that many municipalities that are to receive these apprentices do not have the means to pay for it. They have to take off the payroll to be able to pay apprentices, and you can't do that when you already have too few employees. Then my question is: why does the government not support the SV's proposal today to ensure that municipalities and county councils can include more apprentices in their own activities, because that is absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1832	I thank you for the government's honor that we are now carrying out an apprenticeship. I know that several parties are also concerned about, and I think it's very important, and we do it in many areas. We do this by increasing the apprenticeship allowance, we do it by demanding that those who are going to submit tenders for government contracts have apprentices, and we do it by including more apprentices in the departments and state businesses. There's been a clear rise after the government change. In the case of municipalities, the municipalities have a good and predictable economy, and I record that the claims for starvation that came before the 2013 elections have been put to shame. The reality is that we have set up a larger economic space for the municipalities in the three years that we are now in, than what the red-greens did in the three previous years. I record that many municipalities are also doing a great job in this area by starting to make the same demands on private companies as the state is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1839	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1842	I want to start by just commenting that it is not right that today's government continues the municipal economy as it was under the Stoltenberg government. To take a very central figure: the average annual growth rate of total revenue under the Stoltenberg government was 2.5 pst. per year. Now it's dropped to 1.8 pst. It is also interesting that the Council of State insists on using the years 2011 and 2012 to compare with the previous government, and that he does not dare to compare the period of the current government with the entire previous period. It's trendy. It is an honest thing that the government prioritises tax cuts at the highest level, but then one must also be honest that the consequences of this are that there is less money for schools, health services, care, kindergartens and other tasks for which the municipalities are responsible. When I hear representatives of the government parties talk about conversion, I get the almost impression that they think this is something Norway has not tried before, or that conversion is something we are going to do right now, because of the fall in the oil price. Both parts are completely wrong. In Norway, conversion is the normal state, both in the private and public sectors. That's the way it has to be in the future. I am also concerned that the government parties are using conversion as an excuse to sit passive and find that jobs are disappearing, or as an excuse to impose an airline tax that imposes heavy costs on industry in the districts. Not least in North Norway, it is a reality. For politicians here on the Storting – and most of all for those in government, in and of themselves – it has to be an obligation to create new jobs and, above all, to provide people with security in the face of the transition. Now the Western and Southern countries are most affected by unemployment. Then we must put powerful measures in place there, but we must also put measures in place and rust the rest of the country for the future. We've already been in South Varanger, and I want to keep doing that. South Varanger has had a challenging year. There has been bankruptcy in the mine, less trade with Russia and falls in the oil price, and many refugees crossed the border of Storskog. Furthermore, there is now considerable uncertainty about Norterminal’s activities. The company may have to give up whether or not they will soon receive a response from the Environment Directorate on whether or not they will continue to carry out the oil reloading in Bøkfjorden. As the NHO Regional Director of Finnmark says to the NRK today: ‘It is worrying if industrial projects in Finnmark are forced into the grip of bureaucratic inertia.’ I fully agree with that, and I have a clear expectation that the government will soon ensure that Norterminal receives an answer to its application. The same applies in particular to the unresolved issues for Nussir, the major mining project in Kvalsund. They've been waiting a long time. South Varanger, with its geographical location, has great opportunities for new growth and value creation, but magnification and government must be able to accommodate much more than today. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to strengthen the conversion work by a further 10 million. kr in year. In Northern Norway, things are mostly going well, but it must not be used as an excuse to relax in creating new jobs and growth, or to bet on the next generation. Differences in Norway are increasing. Most people agree that school and education are essential to provide equal opportunities for all children and to balance social and geographical differences. We know that one in four never completes high school. Two out of three boys with primary education do not complete. Only one in three who starts a professional course receives a vocational letter. Especially in North Norway, the decline is high. However, the results are in the right direction, but they are at stake when the Norwegian county authorities have to make major cuts in secondary education because of the economic situation. The most important thing we can do is to strengthen the local economy, so that the municipalities and county councils can employ the teachers and the professionals they need. However, while we are waiting for the Minister of Knowledge to think about – until next year – whether to send expert assistance northwards, the Workers' Party is today also promoting concrete proposals to support the efforts of the Nordic county municipalities to improve the implementation of higher education. It's about teaching places in the state, that increased implementation has to pay off to county councils, $25 million. in practical grants for concrete actions, the cancellation of student loans for teachers and more money for Sami learning material.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1866	It has been a demanding year we have spent in the South West and in the Stavanger region. After many years of growth and progress, we now experience the consequences of low oil prices and an excessive cost level. This affects the whole of Norway, and it affects the Stavanger region in particular. It is brutal for the many thousands who are highly educated and highly qualified employees, to be told that there is no longer a need for them, that they do not have a job, and that the economic foundation for caring for the family is being removed. And the situation doesn't just affect the person who loses the job, it affects the whole family. The consequences we've seen are that children are taken out of kindergarten, they no longer go to SFO, and they stop participating in leisure activities. The revised State budget therefore contains very important packages of measures for the South-West. Taking action to stimulate activity and keep employment up is the most important step we can take. In total, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, through the agreement on the ordinary and audited budget, has allocated more than 5 billion. for direct targeted and short-term measures against unemployment. The main intervention of the government towards increasing unemployment has been further reinforced by the agreement on the revised budget between the four cooperation parties on the Stortinget, inter alia. by increasing the one-off maintenance grant in the municipalities concerned. For Stavanger's part it represents approx. Seventy-seven million. kr. The municipality has rapidly turned around, engaged in local business and will initiate immediate action. For example, the second phase of the extension of an extended skate park for children and young people in the Tasta district has now been accelerated, as a result of the additional support given to the municipality of Stavanger. It is also organised for the refurbishment of park and outdoor areas and, not least, we rehabilitate properties, schools and kindergartens. These measures are beneficial in a region experiencing more turbulence in the economic situation than for a long time. I am very pleased that the government has taken the situation seriously and put in place measures as it really was necessary. Yesterday, fortunately, we were able to read in Stavanger Aftenblad that optimism is beginning to prevail in the business of Rogaland. There are already signs of positive effects of government and the policy of the cooperation parties. Several employers now respond that they are planning to increase staffing, which was not the case in the last quarter. It is in particular in the construction sector that increased demand for labour is expected as a result of infrastructure and housing projects. Nav Rogaland has also recently reported more positive developments, including: as a result of an increase in the number of job vacancies. The number of unemployed goes down carefully, so there's reason to believe that we're on the right track. It is also such that when one door closes, many new ones open. Because we must not forget that we have a very good starting point for creating new, exciting jobs by the fact that those who are now unemployed have a high level of education, often have extensive experience and live in a region with a high level of entrepreneurial activity and a willingness to stand on and, not least, to thank you. It's an important success criterion that it's stuck in the idea of conversion. We need to facilitate the use of more money on knowledge and research and provide important support to new industries. Each region, both municipalities and private business, has a responsibility here. We need to organise new industries and jobs that we do not even know today and know the title of, and even less what the job description should be. Then there is a misunderstanding among those who believe that oil and gas should not be a central sector in Norway in the coming years. Johan Sverdrup's development alone represents a formidable job, and we see that many of the contracts in connection with the expansion are just being awarded to companies in the South-West. At the latest today, the GMC in Stavanger and Haugesund were informed that they are now getting the job back, because the company is delivering the air-conditioning system to the housing platform at Johan Sverdrup. But we're going to renew ourselves, we're going to apply new technology, and not least we're going to make the industry more sustainable and robust. We need to stimulate oil companies to investigate and to increase the uptake of new technologies, especially where significant improvements are made in terms of reduced costs, increased oil extraction and, above all, reduced emissions. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that the government is so clear that they will follow developments in the labour market closely and that they will be ready to take new, effective measures if necessary. It is precisely the interaction between local and national political leadership that will be absolutely essential for us to succeed in the transformation we have started and that will form the basis further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1887	In an attempt to explain that the government takes money from future generations to finance tax cuts to them with the most in this country, it has chosen to adhere to the term ‘spare pig’. The representative Limi was actually more concerned with explaining to the Chamber that there was no interest from such piggybacks on the shelf than taking responsibility for this government taking money out of the fund for the first time. The fact that the Progress Party seems to understand all the images we use in politics actually just ahead may be something we have to take further. We have e.g. In the past, the government too often sticks its fingers in the honey pot when they make budgets. No, the Progress Party – we don't think you're putting your fingers in honey jars, and that the reason why the budget is getting worse is that all the papers get scratched and glued together; it's a picture. This may also be something to think about for the Left, which is constantly asking about greener budgets. Let me help, the Progress Party: they don't want you to write on green papers, they want policies to contribute to less CO2 emissions, and nature to do better. The party of progress and the government – look out! – have painted us in a corner by making many wrong choices. So they haven't painted the floor, they've done things in politics that make us in a difficult situation. They've painted us up in a corner, which makes it hard for us to move on. For the autumn, we are excited if they continue to spend the money incorrectly, or if they do as we have recommended: make sure that they pay the most, and spend money on what creates jobs, not just fill up the wallets of some of Norway's most prosperous. There are also other parties that have been excited about the left-hand shift in Greece in the past, but it may seem as if it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that have really pushed the idea of increasing consumption while cutting taxes, i.e. in income, to their breasts. It's not particularly sustainable, and one would think that it would worry Right, but instead we see the representative Fleet constantly taking up the order to spend more and more oil money. Not even when he is confronted with the good reasoning of the government friend Terje Breivik and Left, it seems that it impresses him. At the hearing of the Committee, the Governor rightly said that there could be arguments for spending more money when there were bad times, but he also said that the use of oil money should now have reached its absolute peak. That's why it's so alarming to hear what was supposed to happen in the past, only to continue at the points of speech I can't see other than that they've been handed out from the Progress Party, saying that the most important thing now is to spend even more money, and to refuse to grant Terje Breivik and Left a confession that it is now time to bring down the oil money. This does not promise good for the 2017 budget. The left will probably have to look forward to being a support party for a government that will continue to have massively increasing oil money use. Perhaps they will again be in a situation where they are involved in negotiating the use of oil money, as we have seen it has ended up on several occasions. It's a shame, because of the posts that have been held here in the hall, it's perhaps Breivik who – it may look like – really understood the Thøgersen selection, and not just does this sport in picking out the parts and phrases that best fit to substantiate its own policy. Finally, in my bank app, I have a line with a piggyback symbol. It's not a symbol to trade pork, but to save money. Here I also sometimes get a little bit of interest. So I can recommend the Progress Party to run a general update on what's going on in society: oil money-funded populism is not the way into the future, and that's not the answers Norway needs. Absolutely in the end: I should like to have been given an explanation of what the Council of State Sanner meant when he said so hard that the “Worker Party-paid” SSB report. It could be as if Sanner thought that the SSB gave different answers based on who ordered the reports from them. That's what I assumed was his underlying opinion, so it might be okay if he found out that as a government council he has confidence in the SSB's professional independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1909	The labour market situation is challenging for many, and unemployment remains at a higher level than we have been used to. Losing the job is tough because of the individual's economy and also because you lose an important professional and social community. In the situation we now have, it is positive that the unemployment rate has remained unchanged for the past six months. There is a good indication that the government's actions are working. The availability of space, the optimism is beginning to increase, and we see that the unemployment even goes down to twelve of the country's counties. We have a two-way Norwegian economy. Industries and areas most affected by the decline in oil demand have major migration challenges. The decline is still concentrated in the south and west. But here too we see less growth in unemployment in the last six months. In other places in the country, the labour market is better, with an increase in job vacancies, and that is positive. Many jobseekers quickly find new jobs. That also applies to those who become unemployed in Rogaland. In this county, about one third are no longer registered for work after two months, and less than half after six months. It provides a good basis for the Employment and Welfare Act to work with those who become unemployed and to communicate the jobs. Labour market policy should contribute both to the rapid introduction of new jobs for the unemployed and to the provision of labour to enterprises with job vacancies. We then need to facilitate the necessary changes and that job seekers are motivated, mobile and competent. This is where labour market measures have an important role to play. In the revised national budget, the government reviews the economic situation and proposes several measures to limit the increase in unemployment. The government is increasing the level of action for the unemployed by a thousand places in the second half of 2016. These action sites are at the top of the increase of a total of 4000 action sites in the 2016 budget. This means more money for the unemployed, so that they get help into a new job by means of training and retraining. At the same time, efforts towards people with disabilities are maintained. The government wants to facilitate transition and mobility in the labour market so that job seekers are better able to qualify for job vacancies. Therefore, the government proposes further legislative changes to the revised national budget that will facilitate the combination of daily pay with education. These changes are based on the fact that the jobseeker will continue to be a real jobseeker in order to receive daily benefits, but will, for example: provide the unemployed with the opportunity to spread education beyond a time period in a much more flexible way than has been possible today. Furthermore, the changes may give unemployed immigrants the chance to improve their Norwegian skills and increase job opportunities in a better way than has been achieved up to now. The changes in the revised national budget are in addition to the changes that the government has already made in the past in our own country, with regard to daily allowances during education and access to daily allowances during the establishment of its own activities. The government also made proposals to extend the period during which the leavers may receive daily allowances and to propose a new period of pay obligations for employers. This was also dealt with in Stortinget last week. The amendments will apply both to permits already in place but not completed before entry into force and to new permits initiated after 1 July. The government has also submitted a new NAV message. One of the most important points here is to strengthen and further develop the Employment and Welfare Act's employment-oriented services for both employers and job seekers. Etats shall be given increased flexibility to choose good solutions, including: by increasing the powers and freedom of action of the Nav offices. In the autumn of 2015, the government provided a budget for work, activity and conversion, and the government continues this priority also in the revised budget. We are close to the labour market, and the proposals we have now promoted for Stortinget are adapted to developments following the budget proposal last autumn. I am pleased that the Stortinget is behind the proposals that are under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1941	It is the Council of State that has overall responsibility for developments in the labour market, and when the oil price falls, and it affects the activity, one must take action. We now have a historically high unemployment rate. A year ago, we were worried that the time off could go over 4 pst. Now it's approaching 5 pst. The government's lack of action works. That government has spent the most money on, on the grounds that one is going to use growth-enhancing taxes, is relief in the wealth tax. Not only the SSB, but also reports that the government has paid for, such as the Menon report and the Scheel committee, clearly prove that it does not work. Can the Council respond to how many jobs it has become of all the money spent on relief in the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1950	I think there are others here in the hall who can better answer questions about the property tax. It's not in my area. But let me say something about the free time. It's a reality that unemployment goes down to twelve of the country's counties. We see that unemployment has flattened out after New Year's, and it now starts slowly, but surely going the right way. It's still tough, and in some of the counties, the unemployment rate is still too high. But we also see that in many of the countries of the country there is now a cry for labour. You have problems filling the vacancies. The image isn't completely black, but that doesn't mean we won't do enough for those areas that are struggling. That is what we are doing through our State budget, and we are strengthening the measures of the revised national budget, among others. by facilitating the creation within my area of thousands of sites for action, and also by enabling enterprises to apply for intra-corporate transfers. We see that it's going the right way, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1957	I understand that the Council of State will talk about something other than what I am asking for, but it is also the case that this Council of State is responsible for the development of unemployment. When the government argues that tax relief on property taxes should have an effect on employment, I ask the Council of State responsible for labour market and employment developments: How much effect has it had? And I expect that to be answered by the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1964	I think Andersen's representative is aware that the effect of tax havens can't be seen in a year. The effect of tax relief can be seen over time. You might as well ask the question back: what is the effect of the Labour Party tax increase of 10.5 billion? kr to enterprises that are struggling? It is not long since I received criticism from the representative because we charge employers with increased costs in connection with permitting. It is with respect to report a fraction compared to the tax increase that the Workers' Party wants to send to the same companies. It is important to remember that tax rates are important in the long term. We have to make sure that we have viable businesses, which have the opportunity to pay their bills, to invest, to grow and to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1971	So it's up to the Council of States to answer, and then we're going to ask. However, I can only inform you that the statement she spoke about, the cost of the permit, was not from this representative. It was from another representative. It bombed anyway. So the starting point is that from the autumn of 2013, in the revised national budget in 2014, in the 2015 budget and in the revised national budget in 2015, we have warned against increasing unemployment. And the government's answer has been to spend most of the money on tax bills. It is on the basis of what I ask the question: how great is the employment effect of tax incentives when all reports, including those paid by the government, show that taxes on property tax have no employment effect, while the measures we have called for in the field of labour market measures, leavencies, and, not least, increasing activity in municipalities and towards business, would give employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1978	Now there are few of the taxes that are under my responsibility, and the calculations that have been made on the tax havens, probably there are others here in the hall who can respond better than me. What's a reality is that we see unemployment going out, and it goes down to twelve of the country's counties. We see that there is increasing optimism among employers around the country, including in Rogaland, who are struggling. And we see that there are many of the country's counties who have problems filling the vacancies. I was in Tromsø on Monday and visited an entrepreneur there who could hire 50 men a day there had been people available in the county. So we see that the policy is working. It's dawning optimism. The figures are starting to move in the right direction, but there is in no way yet a time to freshen up the labour market. We must continue to be prepared for tough times even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1987	The councils were inside Nav's post, and it was well in March, I think, or April, that the government presented a separate strategy against youth unemployment. We know that early-age leave can have very unfortunate consequences in the long term as well. You get into an evil circle. One of the measures is to have people from Nav entering high school to provide advice and guidance. But what I'm a little concerned about is how the Council of State feels that Nav meets young people who report to Nav, and whether she believes that the effort made in Nav at that point is sufficient as it is now organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1992	There are too many young people who are now outside — falling out of school, falling out of work — and we have a big task ahead of us in reducing youth exclusion. One of the grips we take in the Nav message is, among other things, to review the youth guarantees, because we see that they have no effect, or very close to having the effect that we would like them to have. One of the reasons is enough that there are no obligations in the warranties that are in Nav today. That is why we are now introducing a new guarantee, and we say that all young people under the age of 30 who are looking for Nav will receive a commitment – not just a plan, but also an action – before weeks have passed. Because it's quite right, as the representative Syversen says, that young people who fall outside have a tendency to fall outside for a very long time, and it's becoming more and more difficult to get them back again. In addition, we have the Nav leaders in all the countries that are making a good effort to address youth, and we now also have more action areas that are targeting young people, because we want to catch up with young people at an earlier time than we have been able to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e1999	It's amazing how this government has one answer to all the societal challenges. It's centralization, aggregation and economies of scale. And, unfortunately, when Councillor Hauglie was also going to discuss the challenges in Nav, that was the challenge there too: it was too small, it was too close to people, the services were where people lived. That was not the right solution, she wanted more electronic solutions, more chatting and more indirect communication and centralization of the Nav offices. It was the measure to help people who are struggling. Does the Council see that there may be some challenges in moving Nav further away from where people live? Or is it only beneficial, according to Hauglie, that we should now carry out a solid centralization of Nav around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2004	I am not in favour of a ‘genuine centralisation’ of Nav. With regard to digitisation, it is important for users themselves. It's not just for people who need help from Nav. Some of the people who need help from Nav are also working and should visit Nav during their working hours. What we do with digitisation is just to increase the user-friendliness of Nav users, so that employees can spend important time on those who have complex challenges. The expensive minutes shall be used for the demanding cases, and the others may complete the forms themselves from home via the network. I think that is positive. With regard to centralisation, we are concerned that Nav should be able to dispose of the resources in a better way with the municipalities. There is legal cooperation between the State and the municipality today, and it should still be. So some ‘genuine centralisation’ is not added, but we’re concerned that Nav should be able to make the best use of the resources and set up the offices so that users get qualified services in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2014	We are in a serious situation with 135,000 unemployed. It is perceived as a crisis for individuals, for communities, for the companies affected, and for our country. The situation is particularly serious for young people. Young people are in a vulnerable situation, and it is particularly serious if you lose your job without having completed secondary education. That is why SV has proposed an enhanced youth guarantee, and we are also proposing in our budget that we have the opportunity to complete secondary education as a jobless person. Although both the Progress Party and the Right have voted down SV's proposal for an enhanced Youth Guarantee repeatedly, the Council of State has obviously been inspired, because a little later we could see that the Council of State wanted to get work, education or activity within eight weeks. But the mystery is that it doesn't come with money. Does the Council of State mean that young people get work only through talk, since it doesn't follow money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2023	No, no, no. There are three youth guarantees today that do not work because they are not obligating. We're cleaning them up and we're proposing to make one obligatory guarantee for young people. Nav has a big tool today. We have provided Nav with large resources both through action sites, through a new two-year course of training under the auspices of Nav, through the Nav supervisors at school and other important measures, which will provide Nav with a good starting point for working with young people. Then there is much else that is also done in the budget, and as the government has also suggested in other matters. Reconstructing the gap between youth law and adult law is one important measure, increasing the apprenticeship grant and increasing pay subsidies are also important measures, as well as the changes we make in the day-to-day pay legislation to make it easier to combine education and work. So we've equipped the Nav toolbox with considerably more tools now than they've ever had, just to meet young people who lose their jobs, or who need help in qualifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2032	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2035	An active spring session is soon over. Many important decisions have been made and will be made during the day, and the Christian People's Party's policy is visible in many heavy values. The size has said in our speech that a distinction should be made between working capital and other capital in the tax reform – an important and necessary distinction will be established. Children and young people who are struggling with mental health problems have rough days. These will receive more and better help through the adoption of a stepping-up plan for children and young people with mental health problems. It's really human, and it's really socio-economic. Our children in kindergarten will play to knowledge, through the pedagogics of play. It also fixed the Storting this spring. During the last week, a total of large quantities determined that the entire space for action of the ideals should be used when a new tender regulation is to be put into effect. This is important for thousands of users around our country. The government has now made it clear that legislation should not be amended in this period in order to keep several shops open on Sundays and public holidays. This is the Christian People's Party pleased. The Christian People's Party has encouraged the government to listen to the strong opposition of the people to Sunday open shops. Neither the people, the employees, nor the industry themselves will have more Sunday open shops. For the Christian People's Party, the question of Sunday open shops is about what kind of society we want. We believe it is important to keep Sunday as a common rest day and a different day. Sunday is a community day, a day of rest. On the other hand, a project is not an individual that can stand on its legs alone. It's a national question that we, as legislators, decide whether or not we will continue on Sunday as a different guiding day. Unemployment is one of our biggest societal problems. For individuals, it can mean loss of quality of life because one cannot use one's abilities and lose social fellowship. For society, high unemployment means a loss of resources that could have been used to carry out important business or public tasks. It is in particular the South-West that has been hit hard, and that has been hit hard, along with the youth. It was with this that the background of the Christian People's Party in April proposed a package of measures to combat unemployment. The main instrument of the package was substantial one-off grants for the maintenance of construction and infrastructure to the municipalities of the South and West, and also targeted youth unemployment measures. In the revision, the government has delivered a package of measures with a good device, but through the negotiations with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, the Christian People's Party has strengthened this package of measures both towards the youth, towards the students and also towards the South and Western countries. The Christian People's Party has been subject to unjustified tax requirements of tax authorities for schools with boarding schools and schools providing education to adult students without entitlement to secondary education. We are pleased that we have achieved a solution through the revision that gives these schools financial competence for what has happened, and – equally importantly – predictability for the future. This is important for these students, this is important for that type of school. Furthermore, we are pleased that the cuts in aid appropriations for Africa and civil society have been eliminated through the examination of the revision of the Stortinge, because the need for assistance is very great in parts of sub-Saharan Africa. Many important decisions have been made this spring. Many important value decisions have also been taken through this spring, decisions that will be recognised through practical solutions. Yes – whether it is children and young people who are struggling with their mental health, whether it is business, whether it is the unemployed, whether it is the non-profit sector, or whether it is people who live in extreme poverty, decisions that we have made, and should understand, this spring, will have an impact on their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2058	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2061	In this year’s debate on the revised national budget, the Labour Party has focused on what is most important – the fight against record and increasing unemployment. When 135,000 are unemployed, all warning lights should flash, but the blue government is too passive, mumbling if necessary, and accusing the Workers' Party of wanting to increase the taxes to the companies by 10.5 billion. kr. No – but we are not to cut, and a finance minister should be able to tell the difference between an equal sign and a plus sign. In April, Minister Erna Solberg said: «High economic policy is strong. Let no one tell you anything else." Yes, right-wing economic policy is powerful, it's absolutely true, but is it a record of the number of unemployed we need? Behind the figures are individual ships, families, businesses and communities who experience the situation as dramatic. The Minister of Labour's statement earlier this year that you can easily be repatriated in good times, but get a push when it butters, shows clear ideological dividing lines in Norwegian policy. For the unemployed, it is here and now that applies, but what many do not think about now, is that the vesting of pension entitlements is also reduced when the income falls away. This could, for example: have been lit in the social security plan. Last year, the government also announced a review of the regulatory principles for current pensions in good time before settlement in 2016, in order to avoid a decrease in the purchasing power of pensioners for several consecutive years, while the purchasing power of employees is increasing. In RNB, the Stortinget is only informed that the rules are unchanged and that the social security schemes are no longer going to the Stortinget. It is probably a relief for the Progress Party on Stortinget, who made a great deal of noise for nothing during the settlement last year, but the Workers' Party will still have social security settled for Stortinget. The income development of more than one million Nordics is an important matter. A brief orientation in the RNB and a treatment in the budget half a year later is not good enough. In addition, when the government writes in the RNB that pensioners will not be reduced, but increased, purchasing power after tax cuts of 2.2 billion. kr, reduced curtailment to a pensioner’s couple of 2,7 billion. kr and 82 mill of the opposition. Dr to single minimum pensioners, we wonder who this average pensioner is, and what are the distribution effects of this less targeted policy. That's not what RNB says, but the Workers' Party has asked. In Doc. 15:1226 for 2015–2016 the government shows that it's just the 82 million. kr that gave the most to them with the least. The $4.9 billion. kr in tax cuts and increased basic pensions mostly paid to them with the highest pensions. Such information is important, in particular when the government draws them into the description of the social security scheme in a way that covers another example of unfair distribution. RNB is not the place for debate on social security settlements. We see that today. There have been not many articles about retirement so far, not even from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2075	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said that the government's targeted efforts are in the process of delivering results. Yeah, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that. Among other things, we see: that we have a record high unemployment rate. It's because of the government's lack of action to counteract the increase we've seen. However, it obviously does not stop there, because the government is still making proposals that are almost intended to further increase unemployment, among other things. through the air passenger charge, which has endangered 1 000 jobs in Back, by making proposals that are in the process of destroying commercial public broadcasting, which will lead to more people losing their jobs in that sector. And today the news came that they want to put down the Air Force Music Corps and the Marine Music. So it seems that the government thinks there are too few unemployed people in Norway and that we need more unemployed people. So there's a lot of evidence that politics works. We also see increased disparities in society through fiscal policies towards the government, and through increased benefits to the unemployed. Another effect of government policy is increased centralisation. So yes, Heidi Nordby Lunde is right when she says that the government's policy is about to deliver results. With record unemployment and the refugee crisis, Norwegian society and Europe face major challenges that we only solve together. But across the line, we see a government that is totally failing to meet these major challenges. Several have pointed this out in the absence of measures to combat unemployment. We have proposed increased investment in wage subsidies in order to provide more and better places of practice for those who are far away from work today. We have asked for increased bets on kindergarten so that it will be easier to combine work with care. But the queues are getting longer, and the prices are getting higher with the government's policy. We are critical of the cash support, which helps to keep many, especially women, out of work. In this grandeur, the volunteer has announced that they are ready. They've got resources, they've got people, and a lot of people now report to, among other things. Red Cross to contribute. Red Cross's women's bet is doing extensive work to help women learn Norwegian, to take a job and to get to work. But the government also responds little or nothing to this challenge. It is then to fear that the unemployment we see today will be able to get stuck at a permanent high level, with the lack of action and proposals made by the government, and that Norway is less well equipped to meet the major challenges facing us as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2086	‘Changeover’ is the government’s honorary word in the political change of word. It's a transition we're going through – from specialty to conversion, as it's sometimes said. But what have we seen? We've seen tax cuts to the richest, we've seen cuts in schemes to those who have the least, we've seen tax increases to finance tax cuts and to make the accounts go up, and we've seen net withdrawals from the State pension funds abroad. In working life, we see that the influence of the trade union movement on behalf of the members is weakened, the power of employers is strengthened. This isn't conversion; it's redistribution. It's the redistribution of capital – from society to individuals, from poor to rich, from next generations to our generation. It is the redistribution of power — from employees to employers. We can also add: it's redistribution between municipalities, central districts and districts. What's fasitizing is that the differences in Norwegian society are increasing. The main driver of the increase in the differences is unemployment. In my home country, Hordaland, the number of totally unemployed and unemployed on measures has increased by 35 pst. last year. The biggest increase is seen among engineers, in construction and industry, which are among the groups that are hit hardest. We see in all the Western states that the increase in unemployment is dramatic. I would say that the development of unemployment in the West is out of control. It has consequences both for the individual affected, for the sectors affected, and not least for society. We lose value creation now, we lose ability to value creation in the future, and we have to struggle with the effects of long-term unemployment, especially the increasing long-term unemployment among young people. Therefore, the Workers' Party will put in place strong instruments. That's what we've wanted ever since the crisis began to take shape and we saw the signs, we knew them, we heard the warnings, we wanted to put in good practice. The government didn't want it. Our alternative budget provides guidance on how we can deal with the current situation. We cannot stop the crisis, but we can mitigate the effects of the crisis. The municipal package, which is in our budget, provides a double in relation to the government's plans, from 250 million. NOK 500 million. kr with our scheme. My hometown, Bergen, would get 15 million. kr more than with the government's plans, and the municipalities of Hordaland would add up to 83 million. to start work which can relieve the unemployment of the industries affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2097	When all are involved and contribute, Norway becomes the world’s best country to live in. Being the world's best country to live in is not luck and chance. High employment and an organised working life are prerequisites for a society with small differences between people. Now we see that something dramatic is about to happen. People lose their jobs, they don't create enough jobs, and unemployment increases. «High economic policy is strong. Let no one tell you anything else." This was said by Prime Minister Erna Solberg from the pulpit at Højre's national meeting at the beginning of April. Well, the numbers tell another story. An unemployment rate of 4.7 pst., 135,000 unemployed, is the highest figure that the SSB has ever measured. On 30 May 1933, opposition politician Johan Nygaardsvold of the Workers' Party gave a speech in this Chamber, which unfortunately is just as topical today. He said, «You can see how conditions are. It is not lacking in sight in this case; but what is lacking in the bourgeois parties is the will. We have enough potential, only we can achieve the will, and that is this ability and this will we will try to travel for the great purpose: the whole people at work." The government has repeatedly shown that it simply lacks the will. The government has no control over the state of freedom. And the government doesn't have the will to fight unemployment. It is then paradoxical to see that they have the will to do great tax cuts in every single budget. The cops cost 50 million. kr every day and goes to those who have the most from before. Differences between people in Norway are increasing with the Right and the Advance Party in government. The working party does not share the government's wait-and-see attitude – we have other answers. Our option is to gain activity, to invest in skills and to pursue an active industrial policy for new jobs. It's a fact: Norway wants to work. And Norway needs more jobs. A more powerful policy is needed to keep unemployment low. It is the Labour Party's policy, and it is also the Labour Party's will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2116	Unemployment in Norway is now on a staggering 4.7pst. It's the highest number of unemployed Statistical Centres ever measured. Behind these figures are individuals, individual ships, families, businesses and communities facing an uncertain future. Then it is important that we, as politicians, and the Stortinget, put in measures that get more people to work, or ensure that more people can keep their jobs. Then it is incomprehensible that we have a government that introduces an airline passenger charge that we already see has had major negative consequences for many jobs. That's not what we need right now. The government's policy is under attack here. We now also see that the fee has consequences not only for Back. Both Onkøe, Norwegian and SAS cutters, or are about to cut, in the offer, which will again go beyond both jobs and the offer. That the government does not listen to the Workers' Party in this matter, we get to live with it, but that they do not take the warning from their own in the NHO, which says that this is going to go beyond as many as 5,000-6 000 jobs, I think it is incomprehensible. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is no. one. I find that for the government it comes down to the list. In our draft revised budget, we're adding 900 million. kr for additional activity-creating measures, including: We double the government's maintenance package to the South and West. I am glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left have forced the government to do something more. However, I also find it descriptive – and discouraging – that this government must be pressed on every occasion for more powerful measures to combat unemployment. We also have a government that doesn't understand North Norway. We look at the cuts they started with in their first days in government offices, cutting regional development funds. The new cost keys introduced, which means that, for example: The municipality of Nordland will have 282 million. kr less per year from 2020. It'll be smaller for school and less for transportation if you don't get a change in this. There's going to be a big choice in between, so we're going to hope that there's opportunities there. I am also very pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party had to turn to a matter that we discussed a lot before we took a Christmas holiday last year, namely the proposal to drop the Same School for Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal. There has been considerable uncertainty in the community and for those who should have this offer. We would have avoided this if we had got a little better into the matter before we reached the decision in December – or rather, before you reached the decision in December. But now it's important that this is in place, and now it's important that we get a permanent and predictable offer in the years that come. So to the last case, which concerns the Rescue Company. Notice, there you're just adding 10 million. kr for one-off measures. That means they have the same challenge next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2129	Economic policies shall contribute to employment, growth and innovation. The fall in the oil price necessitates a change in the economic and industrial structure. Good and predictable business framework conditions must be ensured if we are to create safe and, in particular, sustainable jobs. Therefore, this government is leading a tax policy that contributes to the creation of value added rather than to the relocation of jobs. Conversion must also take place in the public sector. The public sector needs to become more efficient and smarter. Norway will build the country on knowledge and competence, and I will underline the importance of how research, and especially education, can contribute to change and new jobs. Health and care account for a large proportion of both municipal and state budgets. Large sums of money are invested annually in new construction, technology and new skills to meet the needs of patients. But we still have a lot to pick up on using new technologies, and not least to coordinate them better. In order to develop and implement new knowledge and research results, we need to focus more on education in technology, and it is therefore very gratifying that in the revised budget there was agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to establish more places of study, in particular the Western World, but also 200 new places of study for ICT and health to be used throughout Norway. Health technology trials in selected municipalities have shown that when patients with chronic disorders use home technology for self-measurement — e.g. Patients with COPD, i.e. chronic lung disease — and using it in interaction with nurses and doctors, are reduced in hospitalisations and in hospital lay days. That's good for patients, because it allows us to use public funds for other good purposes, for example. disease prevention. New tools are needed to achieve the objectives of better health and a more modern health and care service. There is therefore a need for education at all levels in ICT and health, so this is a great initiative. ICT, e-health and welfare technologies are being developed rapidly. It's kind of a green shift in the health sector we're facing. There are opportunities for entrepreneurs to create new industries, but the industry must have good framework conditions and it must be attractive to create new jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2145	There is no unemployment crisis, said the Minister of Labour a few months ago. I wonder if the over 130 000 unemployed and their families share that view. A record high level of unemployment requires the use of powerful tools to create new jobs, but it is difficult to see that the government is lagging behind in this area. We often hear about ‘after eight years of red-green policy’, but never in terms of employment policy, or in terms of job creation. It is easy to understand, because after eight years of red-green policy, 240,000 new jobs were created in the private sector, 120 000 new jobs in the public sector – not bureaucrats, but employees at school, in kindergartens and in the care sector. It happened at the same time that it was a crisis. Now there is certainly no crisis, only 130,000 unemployed. Today we have heard a Minister of Labour who does not know about the policy being pursued, giving new jobs, while saying with certainty that government policy is working. The government's hand accounting for those who are unemployed is cut in holiday money, cut in the pay guarantee and tax on termination benefits. In Uppland we have not been hit by the unemployment that so many Western municipalities have become, but still the growth is low, it is stagnation in the population, for population development, and the employment share has to rise. Only in a few months has it been announced that tax offices will be centralised, employees will have to commute, consumer offices will have to be centralised, employees will have to commute, criminal services and both police officers will disappear, employees will be able to commute. Several of these tasks may be done in decentralised units. Digitalisation, of which the Minister of Local Government is concerned, does make it possible. It's good for the employees, it's good for the environment, and it's good for the communities, but the government's answer is that you can commute. They just make it a little bit more expensive for you by cutting the commuting discount. Today, we have seen that the mayor promises 650 new jobs at Jørstadmoen. We hope it won't be over a 20-year period, but then it's a little strange to listen to the representative Ørmen Johnsen who says you shouldn't move to work. In the end, I would like to use the opportunity to ask for the government's follow-up to the Inland Committee. The work of the committee is important for the national community. The report identifies areas in which it should be invested and deserves a better place than in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2160	It's a popular exercise from this pulpit, especially among the blues, trying to look for the meltwater that ran away in the forequarters, looking back in eight red-green years. I thought I would refresh a rainy Friday to do just that. I remember a government that built up the well-being of the country, that got the differences down, that managed to grab hold of a better everyday life, of work and equality, that managed to deal with a financial crisis with active policies, with state muscles and resources, and get people to work. Now we've had three years of blue Monday, and it's noticed in people's lives. It is marked by a passive policy in response to the serious unemployment crisis. Instead of filling free hands and days of work, you fill the money bag to the richest. Differences are increasing in relation to climate change emissions. Everyone doesn't have the same reason to be disappointed. The shadow side of Segway and the freedom of liquorice pipes we warned against already before the election in 2013, but some have very good reason to feel disappointed and weakened. This is particularly true of the country's pensioners, who had reason to believe in a policy in their interest after 40 years of freedom from the Progress Party. But then it turns out that there was an inconsistency echo, because we see that for the second consecutive year, the pensioners will lose purchasing power in the social security system. The government's own forecasts say that the same is going to be the case in the next few years. What does the Progress Party do? Nothing. In the public debate and from the pulpit of the Storting, the Progress Party speaks as if the pension agreement forces a reduction in purchasing power, hiding behind a mathematical understanding of a political reform. There is nothing in the pension reform that prevents the government from taking action when we see that the outlaws are going to be like them. What did the Progress Party do last year? They owed to others. From the media, we became aware of reports that the Progress Party was to blame for the loss of purchasing power by the pensioners, and the Progress Party on the Stortinget promoted proposals against the Advance Party in government and extended up to a happy chaos. What does the Progress Party do this year? Indeed, political secrecy is being played out — first by preventing social security from being taken to the Grand Duchy, and when you get pressured through it, there is still explanation and shadow boxing that applies. In these championship times, I think we can clearly declare a winner in the 'lift drain'.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2169	I am proud to belong to a movement that has always said that work to everyone is job number one. The pioneers in the labour movement realized how damaging it would be if unemployment were to become permanent — for society as such, by the fact that social machinery does not work, but also for the individual and for the individual's family. If we from this house don't make sure to contribute to a policy that means that people have work to do, we simply don't do our job. I am therefore pleased that the fight against unemployment is so central to the alternative proposal put forward by the Labour Party in the context of the review of the revised national budget. At the same time, I must say that I am surprised, because I had not thought that one of the current government's ways of meeting increasing unemployment is to create so many administrative jobs – in government administration, in departments, in directorates, in supervision, in businesses, in entities and in companies. In the defense, we've got our own material unit. Recently we were told that a separate parking control would be set up. We've got an election directorate. We're going to have a railway directorate. We need to get a railway company. And now we're going to have three more new companies in the railway sector – a material company, a maintenance company and a sales and ticketing company. We're going to have a railway administration that we've never seen the husband of in this country. We build large administrative systems with a variety of units and companies. It's going to be a heavy-duty system, but it's also going to be a costly system. In the revised national budget, the government writes that operating costs will be incurred for the three new companies that are now set up in the railway sector – money for management fees, auditors, advice and other preparatory work, as it says. It is taken from the Railway Agency’s operating and maintenance budget. On questions from Stortinget, the Ministry has replied that the directors of the new material company and the ticketing company will have an annual remuneration of NOK 340000 and the board of directors of the new maintenance company will have NOK 370000. This is just sad. The majority build a large and expensive administrative apparatus in the railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2182	Clearly, Minister of Municipal and Modernisation Sanner does not like the fact that the SSB has concluded that tax cuts have no significant impact on the employment situation. He calls the report the Workers' Party-funded report. I think it is quite serious – something that Truls Wickholm also focused on. Now Sanner is not here, so I think it would be natural for the Council of State, the Minister of Finance, to comment on the fact that Mr Sanner is talking down on the professional weight and autonomy of the SSB. State Council Sanner says that the only thing we're doing is raising taxes. There is a difference between increasing taxes and going against tax cuts. We're opposed to tax cuts that increase differences and have zero, or at least zero, impact on employment, and that bottle the community for money that can be spent on common welfare. But everyone must have found out that we have made a tax settlement. We haven't just joined it, but we've actually been part of it as an architect, and I think we've been involved in driving it forward here in the Stortinget – and there we're lowering the corporate tax to 23 pst. in 2018. It's a very important grip. Unlike the other tax cuts that the government has been responsible for, we believe that what we're in is actually effective in securing jobs and creating new ones. I would also like to draw a proposal. Proposals Nos. 19 and 26 are similar – we are eager to bet on the House Bank for two similar proposals. SV has notified support for proposal No. 26, but not to No. 19, so that's why I find it useful to draw proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox In the case of request decisions, we are for all three. It's about the Tricky Trick, which we're going to support. Then there are special legal remedies related to non-governmental organisations – that is an important matter. And that the government is following developments in aerodromes, we're at least for. We also agree with a note that we are not in, that the Center Party and SV have, and it is a sign of the disagreement about privatisation in the NSB and the creation of the three companies that Sverre Myrli mentioned. We also fully agree, sail if we're not on that note. Here the Center Party and SV have unexpectedly been standing alone – unexpectedly, because there is a rather familiar position with us, but we have made a little mistake, I will admit that. The error is no bigger than that I can fix it here and now, and then most of us can carry it over. Then, in case I'm not going up here again today – we're going to see – I want a really good summer for everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2195	I just want to comment on some issues. Firstly, it has long been clear that Norway’s major challenge has been that we have had a two-part economy, a very strong two-part economy: those in the oil sector and those outside the oil sector. When you see how strong the after-school clock really is, you can wonder why you didn't have that problem over eight years when we really had a good economy, but almost helped to reinforce it. There was one of the first things that this government focused on, the need to change the situation significantly. So maybe the oil price fell faster than you thought, and this became a more precarious situation. Otherwise, I have noticed that you are very concerned that the piglet will be left untouched to the next generation. I think that what we're going to leave to the next generation is a society that's at least as good or better than what we have today. When we invest in roads and railways, when we reduce the decay in the railway sector and do maintenance, when we leave a society where social goods are protected, when we have a work life that is both competitive, knowledge-based and green, then we have spent money in a way that is more important for the next generation than that the piggy bank is equally full. That's why I think that's not how much we spend on the piggy pig, which is the most important thing, but what we spend the money for. The fact that we are now dealing with much of the maturity we have seen when it comes to not least infrastructure is incredibly important. It's necessary, and that's what we spend the money on, as opposed to before, because you might spend the money screwing another round on the cost-cutting screw. Then I want to say a little about what's going on at Moss airport, since I don't live that far away. I have to say that with charges on air passengers there is nothing new. If you go into your ticket, you can see that the airlines systematically tell you how much of the ticket price is a fee. I looked at a ticket-return Trondheim, which amounted to NOK 383. It was before the flight fee. After that, charges amounted to 523 kroner. But they still managed to push the price down. It's cheaper to fly after the fee was introduced than before. It has something to do with when you order and all the other fees that are coming. But that's not the problem with Moss airport really. They had put a roof on the passenger base at the beginning. They had a lower roof than they get after Ryanair moved. They had restrictions on opening hours, it was tariff-regulative. And then you ask: will Ryanair move back or not move if you remove the fee? In 2015, they moved their base from Copenhagen to Lithuania. There were probably other elements that meant more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2208	If you want to convert from too much oil addiction, you can't do the way the Right and the Government do, to connect even more strongly to it by opening even more fields. In this case, new measures must be proposed as proposed by SV, for example: competence transfer programme from the oil industry to other – new, green – industries. You have to, for example, investment in sea wind. You have to decide and spend the money on what can get green jobs and green products. What's very serious is going out of work, especially for young people. That is why I was happy when the government said it would introduce a youth guarantee, but I must say I was very disappointed when I saw the budget. Yes, there are some action places there, but they're too usually available, there's no money to increase the effort for these kids. So what areas of action they should be in is still completely unknown, and there are also no increases in the Qualification Programme or in the Job Show, which are good schemes that would have been extremely important to these young people. We have many refugees who have come to Norway now. Everyone thinks they should learn Norwegian. The government's answer is to cut Norwegian training. Yesterday, the majority of the Stortinget government voted down, thank God, and SV has also in revised submissions to Norwegian training, for the message from Norway to those who come here, must be from day one: learn Norwegian! We're increasing the bet in the Grorud Valley at the core of kindergarten. Why do we do that? Well, because the government's instrument, that is, cheaper kindergarten for those who have poor advice, seems to be a trap of poverty. At the moment you get a job, you lose a good one. It's a device that's against its purpose. We are introducing measures that can capture those who are at risk of being subjected to forced marriage. Now the Minister for Integration has gone, but I saw in the VG yesterday that she was worried. But there's no money here. She's out in the papers all the time worrying about extremism, but there's no money in this budget for it. But SV puts it into its budgets, because there are very good measures, and there are many organisations working on this, and we need to strengthen them now. We also need to strengthen those organisations that work with integration every day, such as Refugees Welcome to Norway, for example. There are many good jobs you can tackle when you have growing unemployment. More maintenance, necessary maintenance, in the municipal sector is one of them, and therefore SV has also promoted a strengthening of that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2221	I believe that in height there are three pieces from the Progress Party that have taken the floor in today's debate, but that is probably a result of the fact that the heart does not beat so hard for this fee budget. That being said, we have a government that says something about it contributing to change and a greener society – but we see little concrete traces. The working party would choose a slightly more active approach. You could, for example: chosen to launch a pilot project for the development of electric ferries on the passenger transport market. We have a great cluster between Stavanger and Bergen who have been working for a long time to develop the possibility of a Norwegian market, but not least the possibility of the export market. An example of such a solution, which is quite clear, is done by Urban Water Shuttle together with Hurum and Nesodden, where a fjord connection can be built between Setre, Fagerstrand and Aker Brygge. It would be an electric zero-emission vessel. This is fully technologically feasible. Today there's a river on the Sognefjord, and when these ferries get into larger production, they'll be as expensive or as cheap to build as conventional ferries. The difference is that there are no climate emissions. A trip over Sognefjord costs 70 kroner in energy costs today. It's almost magical. Urban Water Shuttle has been developed by a consortium of companies with expertise in the design, construction and equipment of speedboats with zero-emission technology. They're located in the South West, and it would be a right bet. The concept can mean new and important exports for Norway. Cities such as London, Paris, Berlin, etc. would be able to easily deploy this type of zero-emission vessel on existing rivers and replace land-consuming traffic which also has higher climate emissions. Here it's really just the imagination that sets limits. Norway has been a testing country for electric cars because we have had tax exemptions and charging stations. Many international car companies have benefited from this. The question will be whether we will do something similar for our own yard industry. Sea ‘Tesla’, to put it that way, can be built in Norway, sold from Norway, and an active government would have taken action to do something more. This is an example of how public money can be used through purchases and other support schemes to create a new export industry. The Progress Party often has a little allergy to things that are climate friendly, but why the Christian People's Party and the Left are not involved in this proposal, which can reduce emissions in our cities and provide increased value creation and jobs in the South West is difficult to understand. I particularly encourage the Christian People's Party and the Left today to support our proposal: «The government is asked to ensure that, in a transitional phase, the State covers additional costs of using new technologies in ferry services.» This can be done within existing arrangements, but we need a government that will do something. If we don't, we're going to have to use a big one that will do something on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2239	The civil cooperation parties do what is necessary to equip Norway for the future. It means that we do what the bourgeois parties talked about for many years that you had to do, but that you didn't have the opportunity to do, because you didn't have a majority. You had to sit and see that the red-green parts lay a lot of the foundation for the situation that has arisen. That's why I think it's nice when, for example. The representative Per Rune Henriksen is standing here talking about listening to warnings and they would act. That's exactly what they didn't do. That's what they didn't do when the bourgeois parties warned against uncontrolled growth in the public sector at the expense of the private sector, and that's exactly what they didn't do when the bourgeois parties warned that the country had become too dependent on one industry. It was not just us who warned of the consequences of the Workers' Party's infallibility. No, you could even read it in the papers. ‘Freedom is going to rise’, it said in the newspapers. The maintenance maintenance “is enormous” was stated in the newspapers. Everyone took these warnings seriously, except for the red-green ones. When you remind them of this, when you remind them that this is what has happened, and that is what their legacy is in this millennium, then they are turned around, and then they go up here and participate in debates in this room, and they participate in debates elsewhere, and talk as if everything has happened, are the consequences of the last three years' policy, and they talk as if the nature of politics is only short-sighted. It's pretty revealing to them that that's what they choose to do. The labour force figure in the Labour Party stood here on this pulpit and said that the majority ‘selects a policy for increasing disparities’. So you could say that it's good that he chooses to use his speaking time for this. That means he prioritizes the substanceless rather than the material, because he doesn't have the substance he needs up here. Torstein Tvedt Solberg stood here and said he would ‘have up the activity in industries that are struggling’. All right. But if you're a member of a party that bases all its reasoning on pamphlet slogans, it's also brochure slogans that are going to come from this pulpit. This government combines short-term and long-term measures: historical investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge, a responsible tax policy, which provides incentives for more investment, and a powerful package of measures, which we already see impact. This is a real policy, and it is this majority that implements it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2252	Attention is drawn to the availability of the South and West as a result of difficult times in the oil sector. I am pleased that, through the revised national budget, we are now receiving back the subsidy for maintenance and rehabilitation in municipalities that are particularly affected by unemployment. I still think it is unfortunate to make this a special measure for parts of the country. In fact, there are municipalities across the country that are struggling with downtime, and that have an unemployment equal to or greater than what we find in the South and West. The Central Party has taken this into account in its draft budget. We've added an increase in the maintenance and rehabilitation grant, so we're looking at a total of 550 million. kr. Our proposal is that our increase should be distributed to all municipalities with a national average. This measure will allow municipalities with many available hands to invest in the maintenance of roads, installations and municipal buildings. The experience gained from the action package launched under the red-green government in 2009 was that money was allocated to both good employment performance and benefited greatly from upgrading worn-out constructions and municipal installations. The Central Party proposes in its alternative budget an additional allocation for Norway’s geological survey of 5 million. kr. The government has reduced the appropriations for geophysical mapping in recent years. In a note, the Centre Party points out that the mineral industry is experiencing challenging times, and the lot therefore proposes to increase the allocation for the collection of geophysical and geological base data. I even come from a region that has a strong need to strengthen the nutrient base to give people who want to move back, the opportunity to work. We know that we have large unused mineral resources, but it is necessary to map them in order to move on with extraction plans and the ring-effects that this can lead to. Mineral industry has great potential in the country. It will provide value creation that benefits the whole country, and at the same time it will represent a regional investment that sorely needs new businesses and more jobs. That's why I'm glad that the Center Party is now helping to strengthen the possibility of getting this in place. The mineral industry can give District Norway a boost, but it assumes that we're now betting. One thing that I'm very disappointed that there's no money found in the revised national budget is priority funds for stem cell transplantation at Haukeland University Hospital. It's so pointless that MS patients have to spend $1 million. out of your own pocket to travel abroad for the purpose of carrying out such investigations. That's why I'm glad the Center Party has added 20 million. to strengthen the capacity of Haukeland University Hospital and to initiate a randomised controlled study of this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2274	We all know that Norway is a stable society, and that the effects of policy decisions only show up in the longer term. We also see clearly that Norway has a very clear right-wing regime, and in economic policy, the Progress Party places its ticket on it. This is shown in many ways, but the most serious thing and what the Storting is discussing today is the organisation of the economy of society. That's what's the theme, really, next to all the other important questions. For it is the broad lines of economic policy that set the standard for development in the longer term. I just notice when I sit and look at the finance minister, Siv Jensen, that she must have learned a very thorough lesson. I remember her from the opposition life for many years, where nothing had to be paid. Now it's completely different, now, of course, everything has to be paid. There is no free lunch, nor for the Progress Party anymore. But then we get to the big mantra, what the right parties in Norway and the right parties across Europe say: tax reliefs are going to solve the economic problems. They shall address unemployment issues. We heard the representative, Heggelund, a moment ago, grumbling with the financial results of the red-green government. 350,000 more persons employed – most of them in the private sector. That's it! Now we have an unemployment rate of 130,000. It's not true! That's what's the situation and the result. All in all, this is not the most important thing. We see what has happened in all the other European countries that have a government similar to the Norwegian one today: they start undermining the country’s financial resources in the longer term by launching tax relief policies and financing it from the oil fund. It is to undermine the financial security of the future generation in view of their security. Why do they do that? Because they are unable to show the results of tax relief policy. That's why they do it. If they had, everyone would have seen that this was a policy that intended to create room for centralization and privatisation. That's why they do it, it's the underlying purpose, and they sacrifice the country's financial security on that altar.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2286	First, I would like to draw attention to a proposal from the Workers' Party that is under Chapter 4 of the setting. It concerns the financing of the Child Welfare Service in Oslo. It is a proposal that actually intervenes in the 2017 budget, so I would recommend to the Workers' Party to turn it into a transmission proposal. I hope they can accept it, because this is really a cross-political input from all the parties in Oslo City Council. Then to the debate. I was actually going to thank Truls Wickholm for a very informative article about the Labour Party's policy, or perhaps saving policy, but that was the second last article, so I'm going to leave it. I record that the Workers' Party's Torstein Tvedt Solberg was somewhat offended by the question from Roy Steffensen, which was related to the Workers' Party's calculation in the revised version. There's no reason to be offended by that. It was asked as a question, and it is not unnatural that Steffensen takes it up, because we have discovered both computational errors and unrealistic deposits in the Workers' Party's alternative budget arrangements earlier. So there's some reason why we're dealing with that question when it's hard to get the sums to hang completely together. So I would recommend that both the representative Tore Hagebakken and others in the Workers' Party take a look at the report they have ordered from the Statistical Central Bureau. It's true, as was said here, that it's funded by the Workers' Party, or paid. There's nothing speculative about it. In fact, it says that this is a report and an analysis based on: How to stimulate the labour market in the short term? And as at least I said in my post, there are no contradictions between public money usage, short-term measures to resolve an acute situation, and thinking about long-term and facilitating future growth and prosperity. There are two sides of the same case, and one does not exclude the other at all. I record that the Workers' Party is very concerned with the tax reliefs of the government and government parties and not in a positive sense. Then I just have to remind you that it's one of several bets for this government. I guess it's as important that we focus on knowledge, research, education and health, not least infrastructure and reducing the maintenance that the red-greens left behind. There is a reason why it has been important to give priority to these areas, and we have done so in every budget. So tax relief is just part of this government's priority, but it's still an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2299	We are now going to adopt a revised national budget adapted to the situation in which the country is. It is an expansive budget targeting measures against the areas most affected by increased unemployment. It gives immediate effect through increased activity in those municipalities where the need is greater. At the same time, from day one in government, we have facilitated work, activity and conversion. All the budgets that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on in the Stortinget have had it as a headline. The fall in the price of oil in 2014 has clearly shown that it has been the right policy. When we reduce taxes on Norwegian jobs and businesses, it is because it will strengthen competitiveness and facilitate the creation of new jobs. I notice that there are some theoretical calculations of the effect of tax reductions in Norwegian companies. I myself have experience in business, and the context is basically quite simple, because when Norwegian companies retain a larger share of their own value creation, it will strengthen the company's equity and liquidity and increase the company's ability to develop new and profitable jobs. There will be new activity and increased competitiveness of it. In all the budgets, we have had a record investment in education, research and innovation, and we have provided good support for the development of new technologies. Enova is a good example of that, and we now see a shift in the development of new and environmentally friendly technology. Infrastructure is important for Norwegian enterprises to have their goods up to the right time, to be able to travel environmentally friendly, safe and efficient, and to be able to use new technologies through an electronic communications network with sufficient capacity. Therefore, the transport budget is historically high – 50 pst. higher than in 2013. For the first time, we are now reducing the maintenance run both on the road and on the track, and we are implementing major reforms to get as much infrastructure as possible back for the money. When I listen to the Labour Party in this debate, I ask myself whether they have understood the situation and what foot they are going to stand on. On the one hand, they believe that we spend too much oil money and “crush the piggy”. On the other hand, they believe that we spend too little money, and, as Hagebaken put it, is willing to ‘click with more coal’. We hope that this is not an expression of the Workers' Party's new environmental policy! The consequence of this ambiguity is that the Workers' Party will have to significantly increase taxation, and it will affect Norwegian jobs. It is difficult to understand how increased taxes and increased costs for Norwegian enterprises are a good response in a situation of increased unemployment. It's totally wrong medicine. Today's revised national budget reinforces an already good budget, adapted to the current economic situation. It is a good budget for work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2316	It was a bit paradoxical to hear the Battle of Vedum, and in and on behalf of several, talk of this government adding up to centralization, while I sat and heard the presentation of the long-term plan. There may be more relocations of jobs in the long-term plan and, at the same time, greater defence capability than the red-greens ever gained over eight years in their reign. For Hedmark's part, the Swedish Defence Agency is moving out of Oslo to Hedmark, which is a very happy news, while creating greater defence capabilities. That's what the government is doing. I wonder a little bit about the debate, and I wonder if you have come to know that the green branch in Norway has lived on, is not as green as it has been. We need to create more jobs that contribute to the state budget, and not as many jobs that live on the state budget. It's a paradox for the Center Party. The government continues its line — in simplification, transport, strengthening R & D, strengthening ownership, all that is needed to build the jobs that Norway needs and also creates viable districts. So when I look at how the Central Party is financing its money for all the actions of the world, the tax shock of the times came to the districts and to Norway last year in connection with the state budget, and this time they are financing it by increasing VAT by one percentage point. What does that mean? Well, that means involving private demand in order to bet on public demand. I'm surprised that the Centerpart leader has his base mountain on this kind of stakes consistently. I don't think he has it, because that's not how I know the Norwegian peasantry when I meet it out in the real world. Then they are concerned with being independent farmers and that there should be the least possible interference from the public, except for the agricultural settlement, of course. There you'd like a good deal. It has a little bit to do with how we create sustainable districts. Then I also want to comment on archives on Tynset, because there is a very good comment in the revised national budget, and it was read in the debate yesterday. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population focuses on the fact that there should be cost-effectiveness in what we do. The Red-Green – Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and SV – focus on developing a building that we may not need, while the government focuses on developing a sustainable, long-term, interesting digitisation unit that brings skills jobs to Thinset. That's actually the way we build sustainable districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2327	There has been a lot of attention around the air passenger charge, not least from my own county, Eastfold. The Christian People's Party did not have the air passenger fee in its alternative state budget. Instead, we had increased the CO2 tax on fuel, both for aircraft and cars. However, we did not hear these proposals in the negotiations on the budget. We were also open to prioritizing other and more accurate green charges in the negotiations on the revised national budget. So travel patterns and population composition change over time. It is then an important task for the State to assess the overall needs of aviation and the overall resources from an overall perspective, including as regards infrastructure not included in the Avinor portfolio. This is Moss Airport Rygge. That's why the Christian People's Party – and I'm also glad that a majority is with us on it – believes that an independent investigation is needed that provides an overall survey of the airport capacity in the central eastern region. Moss Airport Smoking will be a natural part of such an investigation, and we need to look at what opportunities there are in the future, so that there can still be a civil airport at Rygge. I am also pleased that the cooperation parties through today's suspension are asking the Ministry of Transport to contribute to the coordination of the planning and implementation of the Moss/Rye KVU road system with the double track of the railway through Moss. This is important – important to avoid Moss and its surroundings becoming a large construction site for a long time. There are also important comments on the E18 development through Eastfold. The Cooperation Parties ask the Ministry of Transport to ensure that agreement is reached between the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, if necessary, on track access and closure in order to ensure that the development is not delayed. This is important for us to have a context in progress. This is important in order not to confuse competence. This is important for us to maintain an operating organisation that we now have. Then it's also important that we now get an E18 from the national border and into the Winter Bridge. It's important for our business, it's important for the people who live in the inner Eastfold and in this part of Akershus. However, this comment that we have revised today is also very important in order not to delete the regulatory plans on date, i.e. that we have used public money, but are unable to build in time. The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party are taking action today to ensure that we use public funds in an efficient and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2343	This week, Stortinget has addressed an energy message with very high ambitions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, among others. that only zero-emission vehicles shall be sold from 2025. This week, Stortinget has also ratified the Paris Agreement, with our commitment – not to a target, but to a commitment – to reduce greenhouse gases by 40 pst. towards 2030. So environmental taxes are going to be a very central part of the Storting's treatment of the budget in the years to come and are one of the key instruments for achieving these objectives. Then I have to say that it is interesting to see how the parties place themselves in terms of the proposals we now have, which are about air passenger charges. Here we will have to make many decisions that many will also initially disagree with, in the years to come. But that was not the first thing I had to say – there was more joy in the budget, I would say. The four bourgeois parties have agreed to continue the Sameskolan in Hattfjelldal. Southern Sami is a small language, it is probably about 1,000 southern Sami on the Norwegian side and about the same in Sweden. It's about 500 in Norway speaking Southern Sami. Then it is important to attend to the Same School in Hattfjelldal. This means that each student, the 50 who is there – because it is about 50, even if they are in distance learning – is important to maintain the language. The school works well because it has distance learning, and there are regular collections in the school that allow you to practice the language as well. These are students who live very widely, and who need the opportunity to meet each other. So it's important that this school now continues for a year, but also beyond this year it's important for the Left to keep the offer that the Same School in Hattfjelldal implies. And if you're going to look at changes, it's about whether you put the government funds through the municipality, or whether you run them directly, like we do now. So, at the end of the day, I will make a proposal from myself on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. In the event of an error in a vote earlier this winter, this proposal, presented in connection with document 8:36 S, on the strategy for the development of fibre cables and green data centres, and which, with 169 representatives would normally have had a majority, did not have a majority because there was something wrong with the replacement. So I'll take this up to new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2352	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has addressed the proposal to which he referred, namely proposal No. 60 on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2355	Now, when the Labour Party's politicians are going to flock and follow up on the pulpit to express their dissatisfaction, there's neither unexpected nor anything new about it. But when you go to the pulpit here and you talk about the fainting unemployment rate, I think the proportions are starting to come out of normality, to use this kind of manipulation. If we think about countries of cooperation in Europe, the so-called PIGS countries, we can talk about staggering unemployment rates, and especially among the young, where half-generations of young people go without getting a job. We also heard the representative Kirsti Bergstø from SV tell me that the red-green era flourished, where a red-green government solved almost all the problems. My question is then: Why was half the SV group on the outside of the Stortinget building and protested against their own government's decision on the inside, if it was so flowering? When SV's Karin Andersen also calls for replacing the Johan Sverdrup field with sea windmills, then there is a lack of economic understanding that is necessary to preserve the welfare society we have. What are the consequences of shutting down and not opening more oil fields? Well, when it comes to sea windmills, it's expensive power. When I ask the business community, which is also eager and wants to be involved in this with sea wind, they'll be happy to deliver windmills and be part of the value creation that's there, but they won't buy the power that the wind turbines produce, because he's so expensive that he loses all competitiveness if he's to be delivered here in Norway. It puts an end to the huge income of the welfare society that Norway is. Others will take over and deliver oil, because it is not that oil and oil consumption will stop because we stop our oil production. In other words, we're getting bigger emissions globally by cutting out to produce oil and gas here in Norway. We are the nation that produces these products with the lowest emissions. There is no discussion about it. Still, one of the most busy shutting down here that we produce in the best possible way. This government has managed to reduce health cows, we have a historical commitment to transport, we're changing and simplifying planning and building laws, we're increasing the number of study places, we're increasing when it comes to research and employment funds for the municipalities. The municipalities, which for many years have had too weak an economy and have not been able to keep either buildings or other, are now getting resources to keep up, repair and set up again, which they did not get through the red-green years. Now they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2366	When you listen to this debate periodically, you can ask yourself the question: Does the Labour Party have an alternative budget? Or they just don't want to talk about it? That's how I experience the debate for a while. There are two key points that they don't want to talk about -- at least. One is that they have deposits that consist of significantly increased charges that will affect Norwegian business. On the other hand, they increase the cost side. To this bombardment of arguments about oil money use: they perform to spend three times as much money over the cross-section to find a cover for their revised budget – and then I don't want to talk about their ordinary budget, where they sent a bill of 10 billion. SEK to Norwegian taxpayers, much to Norwegian business. In addition, the representative Gahr Støre said in a line-up here that they spent four billion less than us of oil money. There were arrangements that were not feasible in 2016, and the Workers' Party knows that very well. They did nothing last fall, and they're doing nothing now to repair what they're criticizing the position to and from. Of that, I just end one thing: they really agree with what we've done. One more thing that has been central here is the question of how many jobs are created by reductions in property taxes. I don't know, but I'm absolutely sure it's right that the Workers' Party has got in its report: if we set up more public jobs, we can hire people much, much faster than the entrepreneurs and business people around the whole of Norway are doing things to start their businesses and their start-ups. It takes years to establish maybe three, four, five, ten or fifteen new jobs while at the same time operating in bad times and paying property taxes on the values that stand and don't throw anything off. When the representative Truls Wickholm performs to say that these are gift packages for the richest, it is a mockery of the business that works every day – owners, managers and employees side by side – to try to create values. I won't go so far as to say that you don't know what you're talking about, because it would be uninvitable, but it at least reveals a lack of insight into how this country works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2379	I record that my question about whether the Workers' Party has again made a calculation error – this time at 171.25 million. kr – has led to a bit of insulting representatives in the hall. When I have asked for some clarification, I have been told that I have to read the comments carefully and sum them up separately. But I thought the whole main point of having a table in the notes was to give a good and easy overview of the changes, especially when it says that these are clear changes, in addition to the deal. The point must be that it has to be balanced. The SV can be selected in its table. They refer to how they sum up invasions and priorities. I went in and checked a randomly elected revised budget from earlier, from 2014, and the Workers' Party succeeded at that time. But they haven't done it now. I do not feel that I have been given any good explanation as to why they have not done so, so it seems that there is a new round of calculation errors – this time not as serious as in the 2015 budget, as they calculated the error of 3 billion. kr. I have been informed that there are budgetary reasons why they have set up the table that they have done. Well, that's probably the same thing that caused the budgeted errors of 3 billion. kr in the 2015 budget, when they included external interest rates in the so-called interest reduction rule. Otherwise I register that we get some criticism for the use of oil money. The representative, Mr Wickholm, called for the summit to be reached. It seems to me that this is a criticism of the actual rule of action. From the outset, the action rule provides that the withdrawal from the Fund is to be increased year by year. It's a rule for gradual phase-in of oil revenue, so that the fund grows, and so that we can use part of the real return. We've used a lower share than 4 pst, which is what the rule says. We've used 2.9 pst. So we could have spent 93 billion. kr more. In the election campaign in 2013, the Labour Party was very concerned that we should stick to the rule of action. Now we adhere well to the rule of action, but now this is also wrong. So I wonder if the Workers' Party now really says that the rule of action is dead and buried. When they criticize us for the use of oil money, I can at least inform you that we have used a lot of the increased space for action on infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief, but fortunately we have also used it on the Knowledge Lift, where students and teachers will be better in real science, such as science. Mathematics. The need for this is obvious, all the time the Labour Party's fiscal politicians can't be the easiest: plus and minus.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2388	The representative, Truls Wickholm, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2391	I'm just getting a complaint to the Right. I understand that they have a hard time negotiating with the Progress Party in the government, which thinks it's okay just to pour in with 4 pst. the use of oil money in the budget and a good understanding of the rules of action. To the representative Limi: we are not offended that you are asking us about things. We're just a little surprised that you don't understand what's on the sheets. Our table is about addition in relation to the government's proposals. And then there are some suggestions that are partially covered by the agreement, such as. when the government gives 250 million. kr for municipal maintenance. The working party proposes to increase it by 250 million. kr. The agreement covers 150 million. NOK, in which case the working lot must cover 100 million. kr. It's not that hard. It's just reading the letters, using the correct numbers and not using wrong numbers. I am absolutely sure that if Steffensen accepts the invitation from Tvedt Solberg to come to the office, he will also get it sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2401	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2404	First to the representative Grimstad from the Progress Party: I would recommend the representative to buy a mirror. If he had seen in that mirror, he would have seen that almost half the group of the Progress Party has almost continuously now settled down in a camp out in the lawn here. And sometimes the jam also stands half the government there and protests against the Stortinget. So the situation we have now, where the government games in every direction, including in this hall, is quite perceptive, and it should end. The game of pensions has been the worst, where we've also been revealed that the Progress Party has internal documents that say they're going to run this game in the Storting, and then they're going to blame others, because they have neither the strength nor the will to fight for what they've promised when they're in government. This is what I think the representative should end up with. The serious challenges now are that inequalities in Norway and the world are increasing. Are they getting any less with this government? No, unfortunately they don't. When you give tax relief to the richest and take money from lonely mishaps with little disability, the differences increase. When unemployment increases, the differences increase. Has there been less greenhouse gas emissions with this government and this budget? Unfortunately, it doesn't. I'm sorry about that, because it's serious. It's very serious for us who are engaged in politics, also with regard to the generations that come after us, not just with regard to those that are to be satisfied today. Has the integration of many of the new citizens who have fled from war and are now to be settled in Norway improved and accelerated with this budget? No, it hasn't. There's no money for it, no money for more Norwegian training. The government, on the other hand, proposes to cut Norwegian training and to take 50 additional hours from Norwegian training to a course in custom and use. Everyone agrees on a course in practice, but you the world – if you are going to be in Norway, you have to learn Norwegian. Then you have to get that message as soon as you arrive at a reception: Yes, you are welcome here – learn Norwegian! It should be a comprehensive scheme that allows those who have come here to learn Norwegian much faster than they do today. I record that the government has not put in anything to ensure this important purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2415	First of all, I would like to congratulate the House and say that there will soon be only one revised national budget left by this government in this big period, and that is very positive, because it is quite clear that the government parties are not so much enthusiastic about their own budget. We have not seen the parliamentary leader Trond Helleland in the Chamber all day. He must have gone and hid somewhere. I see that Harald Tom Nesvik is sitting here, but a few words about or some enthusiasm about how amazing the budget is, we haven't heard. But silence we've heard. Trine Skei Grande, who is the government's greatest defender, I don't know where the hell's going. At least she's not here. So it's clear that the enthusiasm for your own proposals is going down, and for your own policies going away. And I understand that, because the only concrete result we get from this budget right away is that 1,000 jobs in Back are disappearing. That is the most obvious result, and that must be why the Right parliamentary leader and the President of the Progressive Party feel that taking the floor in a debate on the revised national budget is not natural. It's a wonderful new exercise that you don't want to stand up for your own budget. But I get it, because it's not a good budget. It is also surprising to see the lack of measures to combat unemployment throughout the country. We have been committed to strong measures in the South and the West, but it is equally difficult to get unemployed in, for example. Moss or Vardø, or in municipalities in Hedmark that are struggling with unemployment, as is the case in the South and West. I hope that the government will soon change course, saying that you should be a government for the whole of Norway, not just for parts of Norway. It is also amazing that Anniken Hauglie, who is the Minister of Labour, is not talking about pensioners at all in his contribution, when the social security settlement has been incorporated into the revised national budget. There is none from the government that has had articles about the retirement stoppage. What is this? Following the entry of the Progress Party into the government, they have removed their own debate on pensionstopping. In addition, when they are going to add it to the revised national budget, no one from the government is talking about it at all. It's a wonderful exercise that you haven't stood up for your own policy either. Because even if policy is bad, one should dry up for it. For the Progress Party, it must be a great, great defeat that they were the party that ruled Norway when the pensioners were not mentioned in a single debate on the spring, and no one from the government took up the conditions of the pensioners. Finally, we have seen that the sum of the centralisation reforms to the government has led to uncertainty and bureaucracy in Oslo. We have never had a larger increase in the number of employees in the department and the directorate than under this government, and the winner of the competition is first-line named Anders Anundsen. There has been a huge growth in the Police Directorate, while there has been a weakening of local police preparedness. It is a completely wrong course: prioritisation of the use of time; not action. We want a different direction and another government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2430	The most striking thing about this debate has been the total absence of the parliamentary leaders of the bourgeois parties. It shows a very clear lack of self-confidence and a desire to defend their own policies. And I can understand that, because we're at the end of a big session where the bourgeois majority is on the defensive. The reason for this is that it is becoming clearer and clearer that the economic and social contradictions under which the majority of this room builds up through its differential policies are also unpopular and are going to shape the entire next year towards the election. It is a government that pursues a policy that is passive in the face of unemployment, that leads to centralisation, and that strengthens the development towards a Difference Norway. At the top of it all, this spring has shown that greenhouse gas emissions are increasing, that there is a long-standing trend in the opposite direction. So it was the long promised change in the pace of climate policy. This government and this majority fail those who need it the most. It is about the children of the disabled who live in poor families because they have lost a significant part of the income through the changes in the child supplement to the disabled. It is about children of the unemployed who are not allowed to travel on vacation this year because the civilians have cut off the holiday money for the unemployed. It is about the attack that is now taking place on the incredibly successful free core time system in urban areas with a high degree of social segregation. It's about the broken promises of care for vulnerable families, and it's not least about what should have been a major issue here today, a social security settlement that makes very many elderly people in Norway furious at the government. It's hardly been talked about. I understand that the Progress Party has stopped talking about pensioners. I understand that the Progress Party is worried about the way they've been messing with Carl I. Hagen, as he says it himself. The lack of action, for example: in support of the elderly with low social security pensions or the lonely elderly, there is a stark contrast to the great power of action of the bourgeois parties in supporting the needy upper class in Norway with mild tax gifts. It is also the most important thing that remains after this government – an active contribution to Difference Norway, an active contribution to providing more to those who need it at least. If we increase the differences today, we'll create a colder society tomorrow. That's why this debate is a start on the long run against the election campaign next year, which will be a settlement between Difference Norway and Cohesion Norway. It will be exciting to see if the followers of Differs-Norway have at all intended to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2445	There are many interesting debates in this Chamber. Three, in particular, address the general theme of the budget debate, the persuasion debate and the debate on the revised national budget. I agree with others who have said that it is quite striking to see the inaction of the government parties and the supporting parties in this debate. There has been a lot of good input in this debate that has highlighted the challenges of unemployment, the challenges of creating new jobs — in the long term and in the short term. There has been evidence of inequality growing in Norway — we start at a modest level, but when the course goes in the wrong direction, it is serious for society — and a development of centralisation. The representative Fleet has summarized what he has heard, saying that the opposition does not understand how society works. The opposition understands how society works. We understand how society works, because we listen to people all over the country who point out that these are the experiences they're doing. After the representative fleet has found that the opposition does not understand how society works, he says that the Workers' Party really agrees with them. Mother Nile is still a stone. This is not related. We have pointed out how society is developing negatively in key areas of Norway. The representative Grimstad talked about that time off – well, it wasn't that high. And that's the pattern of this government: Compared to other countries, the numbers are lower and the percentage lower. We've pointed out that it's the highest number measured in Norway in recent times, and if it bites, it's serious for individuals and serious for society: 35 billion. kr per year in loss of value creation, 16 br. kr in daily allowance. This debate should be about how we should equip ourselves for the future, how this budget should do it, but also about what comes after, how we ensure the fight against unemployment, but also the effort to give our young people the skills they need to get into work. Three out of four of the young people who are unemployed have not completed secondary education. It's a major competence challenge. This debate could have been an engaged debate, based on the revised budget, on the society we see three years into the parliamentary term – where we go. I record that, with the exception of my colleague, Nesvik – he is now coming to the end, on his way to the final round – the tone-setting representatives of the government parties have not spoken. They have not participated in one of the debates in which we may have broad discussions. For my part, I noticed that the Minister of Finance went under my post and did not listen to the posts of the representative Lysbakken. Well, there are speakers around the house, so I assume that she listened to it or got the minutes, which she probably reads when she goes on vacation. But I think it has been eloquent for a government and a majority who are on the defensive and who say that others don't understand how society works. The reality is that this government is indifferent to how Norway evolves, and we're going to settle that in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2462	I can calm the representative Gahr Støre. So it's actually both speakers and TV, and it's also being sent to the offices, so that we can fully follow the debate that's in the hall. I've done that with interest. I can also reassure up to several representatives, among others. Battle of Vedum. There may be different reasons why you're not always present in the hall. It has been submitted, inter alia: a long-term defence plan today, so you have other important issues that are also going on. The government parties have excellent people from the finance committee who do the job they do in the financial and budgetary fields. I have reason to make a few comments, one is for the Center Party leader Battle Violence Vedum. It's a little special when we hear the representative Battle Violence Vedum here related to it with the pensioners. What the government has had to deliver is what the Stortinget has decided. In the context of the pension agreement, the size has determined what is involved in the regulation of pensions. Thus, the party of the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, agreed to be regulated by 0.75 p.m. in the context of wage and price developments in society. That's the consequence. Then I fully agree that there is much that can be done, but this government has actually done so, by reducing the abbreviation to married and cohabiting pensioners from the fall of. It didn't happen once under the red-green government. It was then maintained that there should be abbreviations for married and cohabiting pensioners. We've also heard the regular rad. From the Labour Party it is the same message: too little, too late. But you don't tell me what the alternative is. You've run into a track where you use rhetoric, but not politics. Here it's obvious that you're running a campaign, you're supposed to be, but this government has delivered in the fields of work, activity and conversion. To the representative Martin Kolberg: Yes, there is a difference in the use of money when the red-green government went off and one had an oil price of over $100 the barrel, and now when this government presents budgets with an oil price of less than $50 the barrel. It goes without saying that the space for action is changing. Finally, I just have to say that I'm proud of what the government does, because it works. We now see up along the coast that the supply boats are pulling out again because this government is adding up to increased activity on the base, while the leader of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has asked questions about whether we are actually going to take up the oil and gas we have available. Last but not least to the representative of Wickholm: I think it's very funny that you're getting ready for school choices, but look a little better into the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2477	It's been interesting to sit and look at some of the posts from the red-green parts lately. With respect to reporting, when you have been in government for eight years and start talking about this government not doing anything about child poverty and other things, there were several poor children and young people after the red-greens had run for eight years, despite being one of the most important things they would do with. It shows that it's far from promises to action, but we saw a lot of that in the eight years. There has never been more money spent on infrastructure construction than now, and together with the cooperation parties, we have actually increased these appropriations further in the context of the revised national budget, just to address it. The reason I had to take the floor was the pensioners and being concerned with the pensioners. You had eight years of red-green government where you didn't want to do anything about the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. There were eight years of red-green government, and in 2011 a pension settlement was concluded where the Progress Party was the only party that wanted to ensure that underregulation should not continue. Then SV voted that it should be the way it is, and then the Central Party voted that it should be the way it is. There is a large majority in this Chamber who want it to be underregulated. I am proud to belong to a government that says that we should at least do something about the underregulation of married and cohabiting pensioners and remove 5 pst. of the difference that has been there. I heard the representative Karin Andersen standing here and saying that it was only the rich who enjoyed this. I think many of those who are now going to get NOK 4000 – 5000 more a year, feel that this is good. It's actually approx. $8,000 for two married or cohabiting pieces. It means something in the everyday life of the pensioners and is far from Karin Andersen's criticism and negativity around this. Too many people, this means something very positive. One called and said to me, I am very glad that you have removed this envy tax, which he experienced as it did. He was a retired person and was finally going to enjoy that a government is doing something about this, and that you get even a little more of the rights that you have actually acquired through a long working life. The progress party would like to see the curtailment completely gone, but I have still not seen that neither SV nor the Center Party wanted anything about it. That means they think it's okay, but then I'm glad we have a government that has at least reduced it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2492	Svein Flätten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2495	I understood that the representative Gahr Støre was dissatisfied that there was no leader from the government parties present. This post is to clarify a misunderstanding, that he did not hear very well after a non-conductor had the word, namely, signed. I did not say that the Labour Party and the Right agreed on the property tax. What I said about it was that I thought it seemed that contact with reality was relatively modest. There I didn't talk about consensus. When I talked about consensus, it was about the fact that the Workers' Party didn't really do anything to spend less oil money in the budget last autumn, and they didn't do anything right now – and then I said it must mean that we really agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2500	The fine thing about Hoksrud's and Nesvik's speeches was that there was finally someone from the Progress Party who said the word 'pensionist' in this debate. That's good. But the representatives of Hoksrud and Nesvik have the following problem: the pensioners got more of a living every year with a red-green government, while the figures show that they are now in the situation that more than eight out of ten – more than eight out of ten – get less of a living this year, and development is going to continue over the next few years. That's numbers it's just completely impossible to talk away from. The progress party even promised last year that this was something to do with. They came back this year and broke the promise and then tried at the top of it all to hide the whole thing to avoid a debate that would be terribly embarrassing for the party. It's a little honorable. In 2005, SV voted against the pension agreement, so there is a clear red line in what we have done in this case. We believe that we should now in particular give an uplift to lone age pensioners, those who have low social security pensions without any private supplement. It is often those who do not benefit from the tax credits that the representative Bård Hoksrud spoke about. There is no doubt that the policy pursued by the Progress Party is increasing the differences among the elderly and ensuring that those to whom the party has been free for 40 years are among those who suffer the most from this government's differential policy. What we can sum up with, if we are to say something about the situation in Norway today, is that the differences are increasing, unemployment is increasing, and greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. The background is very clear, so when the representative Nesvik determines that the government's policy is working, it's a good thing to end the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2509	The representative of Audun Lysbakken was given 3 minutes according to § 51(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2515	It's very special to listen to the Progress Party, which always owes to others and never takes responsibility for it, not even when they're in government. When the change in pension regulation was adopted, there was a premise that the situation that has arisen now was almost non-existent. When it occurs several years in a row, SV believes that it should be done again. We have proposed that. It allowed the Progress Party last year as if they agreed, but then they turned around. I have never said that the increase in the minimum pensioners that the government has done is wrong. What I said was that the differences are increasing with this government because you give tax credits to the richest – nor can the representative Hoksrud deny – while SV's tax regime gives them the most tax relief with the least income.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2524	With reference to me, the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, the representative of Nesvik, said that the room for action for this government is now completely different because of the oil price. I agree, but then the thing is that it can't be the first thing you do, to give about 20 billion. kr in tax relief, in a situation where the financial income of the country is reduced. If you were to take the consequences of what Mr. Nesvik says here, you definitely shouldn't. It is nevertheless done for ideological reasons, because there are no other reasons that can be documented. I assume that the representative Nesvik was present when the Minister of Labour in his own government was asked about the effect of tax relief on the work situation. It's a shame to have to say that, but she became completely helpless politically. She could not answer, she referred to another state council – it was not her department, she answered Andersen's questions. Neither is there any other government council, or representatives of the government parties, who have been able to demonstrate that there are effects of tax relief on the labour market. But we know what the effects are, that we are weakening public finances and the basis for welfare development – we know that. We already notice that in the country. And the municipalities have to spend their money on citizens by means of taxes, which the Progress Party and the Right have accused the Workers' Party of representing heavily. There is no logic in this policy, except at one point – and that is the right-wing ideology of economic policy: down with government finances, down with public expenditure, over to the private sector – let the population pay it out of their own pocket, so that the most powerful can get even more. It's the prescription across Europe from governments that look like the Norwegian, but the worst of all -- I kept saying, it may not, but it's one of the worst -- is that it destroys society's value creation in the long term and makes society a less efficient, market-driven capitalist society. Maybe they should think about that, but they don't take that challenge, they don't take the discussion -- they should, maybe they can do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2531	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2534	The representative Hoksrud talked about lifting breaks in his post, and that's a person you should listen to when it's about lifting breaks. I remember very well that he and the then representative Siv Jensen traveled around the country and said: Toll-free – we guarantee toll-free when the Advance Party comes into government. Then I have a question for the party representatives: Is there more or less toll now than in 2013? They know the answer, but they won't say it out loud: it's more -- it has increased. The toll debt is growing dramatically. It was required in almost 10 billion. Last year's kr, and I think there'll be a new record this year as well. Lift fractures have great expertise on them. I think it is sad that the Progress Party does not vote in favour of proposal No. 59, which is about influencing the EU in order to have freedom of action and national border control, if necessary. It is clearly the government – and the Progress Party – against. It's amazing. So I'm going to re-appropriate proposal no. 56 for a transmission proposal. There are some parties in the room that have encouraged me to do that, considering that the most important thing is that we should get action in the Mosse region and make sure that we get the unemployment down. We're going to follow the government closely, see that they're actually doing something real for the area that's now so affected by unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2543	The representative, Mr Vedum, has now moved on to motion No. 56 for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2546	It was the representative of Kolberg who made me draw on the list of speakers. I just have to say one thing, and it is quite obvious that the undersigned and the representative of Kolberg are far from each other ideologically, and no matter how long the representative of Kolberg and the undersigned are in this room, we will still stand far apart – I can guarantee that. The party of progress and this government has promoted matters on a different basis than the representative of Kolberg obviously wants to do. You actually need growth-promoting tax relief. There is a need to reduce corporation tax so that it is profitable to have companies in Norway so that they do not move out. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen the TAX FUNN scheme in order to get a headshot, in order to establish new businesses. It is necessary to bet on transportation – much more than the former red-green government did, in order to take back what former governments have left behind. It is necessary to invest in infrastructure also within rail – and yes, it is necessary to strengthen the local economy. There may be a reason why there was so little debate about the municipal proposition, because this government has followed up and strengthened the municipalities, precisely to ensure the offer to the inhabitants. That's a great distance. There should be a great deal of distance — fortunately — because one has to think differently in the situation in Norway. I said that the government's policy is working – the representative Lightbakken said it in his post – that we now see messages from the business community saying that they now have more faith in the future, and that they are considering hiring more than just a short time back. We look out in the districts that it is being invested, including on the maintenance side, and in the actions that have been promoted in the light of the change we are about to make, we also need to promote measures that can be quickly reduced if things improve. Politics works, and we see it out there, but we have a long way to go, and it's this government that can take us that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2559	It's a small dilemma about whether what I'm going to say helps to extend the debate or to the opposite, but we'll see how it works. I have noticed that representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have been particularly concerned about the position and condition, and of those representatives from the government parties and others who have spoken here. Then maybe I can say that our contribution has been a contribution to the classless society, where everyone is equal. Some of us work, and I'm sorry if it's not satisfactory for some people in this room. Moreover, I believe that the debate on the revised budget has shown that the instruments are not very different when we look at the proposals of the individual parties. It means that when you're faced with acute situations, and that's who I'm talking about, we have an instrument that you're very much in agreement with. We are in a very fortunate state financial situation that allows us to use the budget to counteract increasing unemployment. Then we can take the big debates about different societies and what's going on to not get too big a difference, and we'd like to do that. But I want to point out that the majority of those who have submitted budgets over the last three years have at least provided something, and that is an extraordinary effort on what, in my opinion, is one of the most important things, namely to provide good education from primary to higher education. There has been no severance, it has been a strong bet, and it will benefit this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2568	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2582	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2589	Things about transparency and combating tax havens are important and have been very up-to-date lately. It is good to be able to say that the consideration of this Document 8 shows that there is a common and unanimous view on the part of the Committee that Norway is well advanced in this work, and that we have had a great deal of attention to the work on tax evasion and increased transparency on cross-border capital flows for a long time. The reason is obvious. It's about what we've really been discussing in the budget now, about checking that what's created by values in our own areas, is also going to be here, and that avoidance is being minimized. We have a good code in this country, and we have also been an active driver in international work for increased transparency and, above all, for the exchange of information for tax purposes, so that today we actually have a network of agreements covering more than 90 countries, which allows us to exchange very extensive information. In addition, within the OECD, we have also done significant work, enabling us to exchange information with further jurisdictions. Norway is well advanced in international work, not only in the work on the exchange of information but also in the creation and organisation of new standards that can further expand this work. The BEPS project, as many know, is an international measure for transparency and information exchange, which also includes country-by-country reporting, is one of the most central work being done. At present, there is also a proposal in the Committee to extend the country-by-country reporting requirements. The Committee has already had a hearing and the matter will be dealt with further beyond the autumn. I also mentioned the work on a shareholder register, which has been at the hearing. The end of work will be in the next session. So I would like to mention two things in the end: it is that these matters have also been dealt with on two occasions in connection with other matters in the Committee lately. This concerns the communication on the State pension fund abroad, where a large majority of the financial committee was very concerned about how Norway’s Bank and the fund set up their companies outside. This applies, for example: real estate subsidiaries. It has been decided that there will be a document, a so-called expectation document, in a year's time, that will take very much of what the fund is working on in this area. In addition, most people still remember that we have treated a tax reform here in the house. There were, in fact, quite a number of points that concerned precisely these areas. There was mention of income changes in multinational companies, the confidentiality of tax advisors, the implementation of the just BEPS Code, which I had just been involved in, the extension of information obligations, the supervision of the country-by-country legislation and the Norwegian public ownership register. A number of the points in the tax settlement also dealt with this. It's very gratifying that the Storting and not least the government are very concerned about these areas and the themes. If we turn the clock a good few years back, you'll see that it had much less interest, but now everyone sees that this is a significant part of the foundation of the welfare community. I thank you for your cooperation during the examination of the matter. As I said, the Committee is united on what I have been doing, and I expect those who have other proposals to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2612	The rapporteur has explained very well too much of what we are in common about. Since this proposal for a representative was promoted, much has been done in other cases, on which the fleet was involved, which means that we can endorse quite a lot of the content of this proposal for a representative. We have agreed on the tax reform, which addresses many important issues, including transparency. We have a shareholder register, which we probably get on our table for the autumn, where transparency related to ownership is an important part. We have in the committee a case relating to country-by-country reporting, the scope of this and the transparency it should have in this regard. And we have, not least, in connection with the management message for the pension fund, asked for a separate tax expectation document from the fund. We have also made it clear in other contexts what expectations the State should have as its owner, both when appointing governors, and when giving its leaders in general documents regarding the tax area. I will therefore limit myself to addressing a question that I believe should come a little further. It's about Norfund. Norfund, as opposed to SBU or Argentum, has the primary objective of contributing to the development of poor countries through investment in industrial development in countries. At the same time, Norfund makes use of tax havens as a third country for its investments together with other financial partners. There are some explanations for this, and this is not a new debate. It is also a debate that arose when the proposals of the Capital Refugees Committee were put forward in due course. What I have problems seeing is why it's necessary for Norfund to invest in the kind of jurisdiction we're talking about here, when you have the purpose you have. You can argue from A to Å that as long as others do, and our partners ask us to do so, it's also necessary for us. Sometimes I think it's necessary to go ahead and say that for a state investment company like Norfund, we set a new standard. We believe that in the proposal we have given a good guide on how to do this, by giving them three years to end the practice of using that kind of jurisdiction as a tool. I have to say that I am disappointed that we did not go beyond what we did, but I am quite convinced that time will work towards getting further on this too. And as the fleet representative said, there is a lot of international happening in this area, and I think it will also help Norfund as well as it can be done, even if there is no decision here today, will reduce its use of tax havens as a place of its financial activity. I can't help saying that when VimpelCom was established in its time, we had a representative proposal here on the house that you shouldn't have that establishment in a tax haven. We were followed by Telenor and told why it was absolutely necessary. Then you can see the result of that establishment, and what it's had consequences. With that, I take up the proposal that we have with the Socialist Left Party, and hope for more support next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2631	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox State Council Siv Jensen exceeded 7 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2643	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2648	Yes, that's right, President. It concerns proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party, saying, ‘The budget of the Government of Oslo for 2017 is requested by the Government to correct the imbalance in financing the child protection service in Oslo.’ We were asked by the Progress Party during the debate to turn it into a transmission proposal, and we agree, so we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2658	The representative then referred to that proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e2966	A total of 61 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-5, by Tore Hagebakken, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, 6 and 7, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Tore Hagebakken, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 10 to 26, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 27-34, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposals Nos. 35-54, from Snorre Serigstad Valen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 55, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 56 to 59, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposal No. 60, from Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and Left proposal No. 61, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Financial Committee Proposal No. 19, from the Labour Party, during the debate. Proposal No. 56, from the Central Party, in the course of the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal and will then be replaced by the following: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that regions in and outside the South and West countries experiencing high unemployment, such as the Mosse region, are provided with the necessary means of conversion and employment measures.’ Proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party, before the vote, has been turned into a transmission proposal and will then be replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government of the State budget for 2017 ensure that the financing of the child protection service in Oslo is corrected.’ These proposals are proposed for transmission to the Government without any reallocation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35, 43 and 51, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2016 is amended as follows: 152Aid to the Middle East and North Africa78Aid to the Middle East and North Africa for human rights72Human rights can be transferred, increased by 500 000 from NOK 298 300 000 to NOK 298 800 000164Peace, reconciliation and democracy72Global security, development and disarmament, can be transferred, increased by 36 000 000 from DKK 154 700 000 to NOK 191 600 000170FN-organisations, etc.74UN High Commissioner for Refugees Contributions to maintenance and rehabilitation in municipalities, granted by577 440 000634Worker market measures21Tests, development measures, etc., can be transferred, increased by 500 000 from DKK 16 166 000 to NOK 16 666 00076Aid to workers, can be transferred, increased by 454 100 000 from NOK 770 000634Works may be channelled to NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 2100 000 from NOK 3100 000 from NOK 3100 to NOK 3100 000 from NOK 3100 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[New]] 858 item 1, increased by 20 000 000from €2000000from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €21000 from €2200 000 from €2240 000 from €2240 000 from €2240 000 from €21000 from €1 478 000 from €13000000 from €1 868 622 000855 from €Growth from €1000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €2 billion from €3 billion from €3 to €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from € to € to € to € to € to € to €3 billion from €3 billion from € to € to €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from € to € to €3 billion from € to € to €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from € from € from € from €3 billion from € from € to €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 [[New]] 1761, entry 47, increased by 64 838 000budgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetstsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetststsbudgetsbudgetststsbudgetsbudgetstststststststsbudgetsbudgetststsbudgetsbudgetstsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgets [[New]] [[New]] ‘... Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the budgeting and allocation of funds to the Sameting in the context of the 2017 government budget. Its aim is to develop solutions that are simplistic, provide predictability and are based on the same premises as for other people-elected levels. The Committee takes the view that the Government consults the Sameting on the proposal.’.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a social security bill in the coming years to ensure that the purchasing power of pensioners and disabled persons is not impaired.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e4592	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36-42, 44-50 and 52-54, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2016, Decision No CO2 levying on mineral products of the Storting is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e4967	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27, 29–32, 34 and 59, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2016 is amended as follows: 21Stat Council1Operating expenditure, increased by 3 333 000 from €159 933 000150Aid to Africa78Regional allocation for Africa, can be transferred, reduced by 24 000 000 from €2 094 400 000 from €2 094 000 to €2 40 000 from €2 070 640 000152Aid to the Middle East and North Africa, can be transferred, increased by 28 000 000 from €50 000 from €5 556 000 000 to €584 000 000 from €584 000 000 to €584 000 000 from €708 000 from €12 783 000 from €1 955 471 000 to €1 942 688 000260 Universities and higher schools from €2 28 000 from €2 2 2 2 249 000 from €2 249 000 from €2 249 000 from €2 830 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €3 to €3 to €2 098 000 from €2 097 000 from €3 to €3 to € from €2 099 €2 099 from €2 099 from €3 to € 2 099 from € 2 097 000 from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] ‘... Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government is asking for half of the toll costs for heavy goods vehicles in business to reduce the transport costs of business.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the tax haven’s proposal for a new office structure for the establishment.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal providing a level playing field for Norwegian and non-resident online shops with regard to VAT.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to amend the Customs Regulation § 5-9-1 by way of regulation so that the exemption for goods with a value of less than SEK 350 will be completely terminated with effect from 1 July 2016. The majority also asks the government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the VAT Act § 7-2 and repeal the Customs Act § 5-9 to reflect this change.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the continued operation of Moss airport Rygge’. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work towards the further extension of national border control by the European Commission within the current Schengen acquis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e6441	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28, 33, 57 and 58, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks it to draw up an investment package for agriculture, the aim of which is to contribute to innovation and initial investment in particular for small and medium-sized applications.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the reduction in the electricity charge also for data centres with an output of less than 5 MW as a power-intensive industry at a reduced rate in the electricity charge.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government asks the Stortinget Government to explain to it how much expenditure has been incurred by municipalities, counties and the state in the context of the municipal reform.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the government has followed up the soil protection strategy adopted this year, given that the re-disposal of food soils has increased in the last two years.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e6474	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 14 and 18, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2016 is amended as follows: 150Aid to Africa78Regional allocation for Africa, may be transferred, reduced by 24000000 from NOK 2 094 640000 to NOK 2 070 640 000152Aid to the Middle East and North Africa78Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa, may be transferred, increased by 28 000 000 from NOK 584 000 000 to NOK 584 000000160Sibilities and development70Sibilities of society, may be transferred, reduced by 12 783 000 from NOK 1 955 471 000 to NOK 1 942 688 000225Aids to the initial training65Rent compensation for schools and swimming facilities, may be transferred, increased by 45 900 000 from kr 334 218 000 to NOK 380 000 to NOK 380 118 000. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[HFC]] [[PFC]] ‘... Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2016, Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 3 of December 2015 on a fuel user charge is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e7957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–13 and 15–17, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2016, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 14 December 2015 on a levy on alcohol is amended as follows: from 1 July 2016, pursuant to Law 19 May 1933, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: Alcoholic drinkVolume percentage of alcoholKrt.o.m. 0,7 is charged in accordance with the rules for non-alcoholic beverages.Brenner wine-based over 0,77,53 per volume and litre over 0,7 per litre. 2,73,37 per litre, 2,7 to 2,7 3,712,66 per litre, 3,7 to 3,7 4.721.93 per litre 4.7 to 4.7 224,90 per volume and litreEthanol for technical uses exceeding 0,7 % as for alcoholic beverages The Ministry may prescribe the scope of the charge and the basis for the charge. In addition, the Ministry may provide for a charge to be paid on alcohol in goods which are not subject to a charge in accordance with the first subparagraph and for simplified charging of goods imported for personal use by travellers in addition to the duty-free quota provided for in the first subparagraph. toll law § 4-20.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2016, Decision of the Stortinge is amended as follows: 14 December 2015 on the levying of tobacco products, etc. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8182	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 22, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to file for amendment of the payroll law during the period of leave in order to reduce the employer's period of leave from 10 to 5 days.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government asks the government to raise the issue of partial permitting down to 40 pst. shall provide the basis for daily allowances.’;» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8205	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked not to introduce a new five-day employer period, which occurs after the first 30 weeks of leave.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8223	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reverse the decision to tax termination benefits and to ensure that benefits from popular security are not curtailed by the background of termination benefits.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8241	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a strategy on how wage subsidies can be used as labour market measures to a much greater extent than they are today, and an assessment of the mechanism of such a scheme. The following main criteria are used: – Employer receives an hourly training grant per person linked to the scheme – The scheme is time-limited – The company must comply with the conditions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement – Cooperation between employer, employee and relevant language training, vocational training or other training authorities is required – Priority shall be given to young people’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8278	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for changes to the Husbank’s loan framework and allocations ‘under the line’ for 2016 as a result of the increase in the framework of the interest compensation schemes for municipalities and county councils for the rehabilitation, organisation and reconstruction of school and swimming facilities by 10 billion. krona and the investment framework for the interest compensation scheme for municipalities for the refurbishment of church buildings by 1 billion. crowns.’» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8296	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the actual expenditure of the counties in order to conduct the Privatist Examination and to assess the level of the current fee on the basis of the fact that the fee will only be paid for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a gender perspective on innovation measures and for equality centres and the Research Council to be given the task of assessing how increased equality can form a basis for innovation’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8319	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘From 1 July 2016, the Decision of the Storting on air passenger charges of 14 December 2015 is amended as follows: Sections 1 to 4 are repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8337	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide clear guidance on the choice of criteria in such a way that Norwegian industry is competitive in tendering procedures.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8355	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that, in a transitional phase, the State covers additional costs of using new technologies in ferry services.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the budgeting and allocation of funds to the Sameting in the context of the 2017 government budget. Its aim is to develop solutions that are simplistic, provide predictability and are based on the same premises as for other people-elected levels. The size suggests that the government consults the Sameting on the proposal.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting in connection with the 2017 budget with an ambitious plan for the follow-up to the 100 proposals of the Divex Committee.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and submit to the State budget 2017 proposals for a government guarantee scheme for land-based industry loan liabilities within the rules of the EEA Agreement, or other similar mechanisms that ensure the functioning of the capital market in relation to investments in profitable land-based industry, such as a sovereign debt enhancement scheme.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to set up a loan scheme in Innovation Norway for short sea shipping so that it can use new and environmentally friendly technologies more quickly.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8394	There is a vote on proposal No. 60, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess a reduced electricity charge for data centres with output below 5 MW.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it. The President draws attention to the fact that this is a very sharp vote and asks the representatives to be relatively strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8416	There is a vote on proposal No. 55, from the right, the party of progress, the Christian party, and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the temporary scheme for 2016 at NOK 0,00 in the rate for the user charge for natural gas cease in 2017 by establishing a basis for notification and launching the process with ESA as soon as possible, so that 100 pst can be introduced on 1 January 2017. [[LNG]] user charge for LNG in combination with a transitional scheme with the exception of the user charge for natural gas used as a supplement set at 50 pst. as a first step, but downwards towards 0 pst in 2025.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e8434	Then we go to the vote proposal for a decision, and now when we're going to vote over it, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and some complicated voting. It is under the clear condition that it should not be used against them on a later occasion. We then vote collectively on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19701	Letters A I to XXIV, capital B, lower case a I and II, lower case b I, II and III and lower case c I and II shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19710	There is a vote on proposal No. 61, from the Financial Committee. These are corrections to the previously adopted setting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘– The term ‘Chapter 257’ is replaced by ‘Competence plus’ – The term ‘Chapter 541, Item 70’ is replaced by ‘Contributions to administrative development and coordination of ICT policy’ – The name of Chapter 1330, Item 63 is replaced by ‘Specific grants for large collective projects’ – The keyword relating to Chapter 1422, Item 70 is replaced by ‘can be used under items 21 and 60’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19735	It's over C, I.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19744	It's votting over C, II. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced support for the vote, for safety reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19755	It's votting over C, III. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19768	It's voted over A, XXV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e19781	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norfund, for all its initial investments, terminates the practice of investing through tax havens in three years’ time’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-17.ana.ud2505e20116	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President should draw attention to the fact that the negotiations of the Grand Duchy will be resumed on Friday 30 September at 9.30 a.m. 13th@item: inlistbox Since this is the last major meeting before the holiday, the President will also be given the opportunity before the meeting to thank all the co-representatives, the members of the government, the staff of the Stortinge not least, the press department and all those who otherwise have their daily work in Stortinge, for good cooperation – and wish everyone a really good summer. We know that there will be a tough harvest, and there are also several committees starting in August/September with hearings and committee trips. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
