ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e55	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Sverre Myrli, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Knut Storberget, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Trond Giske and Siver Bjørnstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Lise Wiik, is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e90	The representative, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e93	On behalf of the representative, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to lift the 10 p.m. threshold of absenteeism. in secondary education. And on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose changes to the law of private schools and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e98	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 15 April 2016: ‘Changes in the State Secretary of the State Council of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 15 April 2016 at 9.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided: State Secretary Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Welfare Bent Höie. Group leader Terje Halleland is hereby constituted as State Secretary to the State Council of Jon Georg Dale in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food until 30 April 2017.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e127	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e134	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter. As a representative of the Greens, I would like to thank the Greens for a very good and timely draft representative. For the Green Party, the aim in this matter has been to bring together a majority of the UK population to protect the Pacific Ocean, but unfortunately we have not made that clear. I'm not going to hide that I'm very disappointed that none of the proposals that are being promoted here today get a majority. Only the Left, Christian People's Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens support the protection of the entire watercourse, while the Centre Party supports the protection of the upper part. The representatives of the Workers' Party should think carefully about what they have done in the context of today's decision. With the Workers' Party, the Baltic Sea watercourse could have been protected. The working party chooses to keep the fate of this watercourse open, but it is highly likely that it will be expanded. It is incomprehensible that the Workers' Group in this case chooses to run over its own county in Hordaland and the municipality and open to the development of the whole Øysteseelva – so they had a unique opportunity to demonstrate that there are realities behind their claim that they are pursuing a better environmental and nature protection policy than the government. They have not shown that in this case, on the contrary. In particular, it is strange when the essential elements of the reasons given by the Workers' Party are that the lot will not: «to be used for the protection of single water day other than a complete revision or addition of a watercourse protection plan». This argument shows how wrong it is when a party locks on technocratic principles rather than prioritizing concrete nature protection policies and the ability to obtain results in nature protection and the protection of values in Norwegian society. In this case, the builders are ready to expand both the upper and lower parts of the Øystesselva, with major impacts on outdoor life, the environment, ecosystems and Norwegian nature values. We think it's strange that large parties that have environmental protection as their goal are putting these values at risk and looking at a procedural principle. The principle enshrined by the Workers' Party here, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, is also interesting as to how we should think about nature protection policy in Norway. Do the representatives of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party really think that it is not the role of the Stortinge to put down the foot for extensive natural interference if the Stortinge wishes? Is this an option The Storting should dissociate itself on a principle basis? It is very difficult to understand such thinking, especially at a time when climate change is changing in terms of protection, with increasing knowledge, and when the need for protection increases with international commitments, and with the fact that more and more protective values are being built up. In recent years, we have seen an increase in interest in large watercourses. The party of progress is exemplaryly clear. They'll even expand the sheltered watercourses. Common to very many of the rivers that still run freely, is that there is relatively little power to pick up in them, while at the same time the protection values are high. A few years ago, the Nature Conservation Association pointed to twelve rivers that it is particularly important to preserve for the future. In at least five of these rivers, concession has already been granted for development, including: Einunna in Hedmark, Godfarfossen in Buskerud and Lower Otta in Oppland. The Baltic Sea watercourse is one of the six–seven watercourses left on the list of the Federation of Nature Conservation — six–seven — throughout Norway. So here's the choice between taking care of one of the last intact, whole watercourses across this region and expanding to a power generation of 4,150 households. By comparison, Statoil's new large Baltic sea wind project is designed to produce electricity for about 400,000 households, i.e. hundreds of times as many. That's a reasonable amount of energy. For the Green Party, it is also a mystery that the bulk of the population opens up to the development of these premises, in particular when the outdoor organisations, Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federations, national and local environmental movements, the NHO Travel Life, the Municipality of Kvam, the County of Hordaland and a number of other actors warn against development. In 2009, the Right agreed to protect the upper part of the Pacific Ocean. There is little doubt that the protection values in this area have not been reduced since then, relatively speaking, while other things are being built down. Therefore, we hope that the government will say no to expansion, so that Øystesselva will be free to flow in the future as well. Here the government and the Right have a unique opportunity to show that there is a hold in the claims that they are pursuing a better nature protection policy than the Workers' Party. I would like to address the three minority proposals in the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e163	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e166	In 1973, 1980, 1986 and 1993 the Stortinge adopted the Verne Plan for Watercourses, with supplementation in 2005 and final supplementation in 2009. The protective plan consists of 389 objects and includes various watercourses which together form a representative section of the watercourse nature of Norway. During Storting's treatment in 2009, the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, went against the protection of the Eyewater Treaty, and the Right, Left and Christian People's Party were in favour. The protection arguments were that the watercourse has special qualities that are not present in already sheltered watercourses and that this can best be done through a concessional treatment. So to Rasmus Hansson: We didn't put our foot down in 2009, we want predictability for the power companies that have started their plans, and we point out that the NVE has now given a positive attitude. Terje Riis-Johansen, who was then Minister of Oil and Energy, said this way: ‘Now that we have implemented this final supplement to the protection plan as foreseen by Stortinget, caution must be exercised hereafter to further reduce the potential for renewable energy through protection. Such a cautious approach is underpinned by today’s climate challenges and the need for renewable energy.’» This is not about a desire to be technocratic, but it is about a desire for new renewable energy. The NVE has given a positive attitude, the concession treatment is available, it is now at the OED. So it's BKK Produktion AS and Øystese Kraft AS that's supposed to be able to get permission from OED to expand the power plant. When we've wanted a concessional treatment, we think it's neat to listen to what NVE says. The NVE believes that the expansions are important contributions to renewable power generation and that they have a limited environmental impact. The total annual production of both projects is 83 GWh, which corresponds to the electricity consumption of 4 150 households. The planned expansions will reduce the flow of water in the Baltic Sea, but with the introduction of sufficient minimum water supply and good planning and follow-up of the facilities during the construction period, the adverse effects on the environment and landscape will be acceptable – according to the NVE. Furthermore, the NVE considers that the benefits of the measures, compared with the public and private interests, are greater than the damage and disadvantages. That's what we're listening to. In the Workers' Party, we believe that an expansion of power in a watercourse such as the Øystese needs to be carefully implemented, ensuring the natural qualities of the watercourse, including local authorities early in the process, and that the development leads to local value creation. Developments are important contributions to renewable power generation and increased revenues to Quam and Samnanger municipalities. I can assure the representative Rasmus Hansson that we have thought thoroughly through this, we have had a thorough treatment in the Workers' Party's large-scale group, and we have agreed to vote against the addition of the Østese watercourse in Hordaland to the Protection Plan for Watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e193	I can join much of what was said by the previous speaker. So that's not the way to protect watercourses, that it happens completely without a certain procedure. We have a long and good tradition in this house so that when we're going to protect watercourses, we do it properly. We started the planning work in 1973 – as we have said – we had a new plan in 1980, 1986 and 1993, and we had revisions in 2005 and 2009. So it is not a technocratic rule that underlies the assessment of which watercourses are to be protected and which watercourses are not to be protected. It's important. It is important to have good debates, it is important to take full responsibility, and it is important to have a holistic view when assessing which watercourses to protect and which watercourses to extend, because it is now time that if we want to build renewable energy, and if we want to use that power, there are some watercourses that are so important that we want to protect them. Then there's a good debate about which watercourses it's going to be opening for you to expand. It is also the case that some watercourses, although open to concession, are to be used through good concessional treatment. The concession treatment is intended to ensure that, even if you have to be allowed to expand, you have to do it in such a gentle and good way that you take into account the protection values that are there – as far as possible in relation to the concessions to be granted. For us, it's not like there's a technocratic rule you hide behind even though you're now saying that you don't want to protect the Pacific Ocean. This is done on the basis of the fact that the Stortinget, this house, has made an overall assessment of the watercourses that are available in Norway and that can be expanded. If you are going to have individual treatment because some people think that some watercourses are better than others, there is an unforeseeable thing that nobody, especially the Stortinget, has done. If it is that a new environment and new challenges make it necessary to have new protection plans, new supplements, my proposal is that at least a comprehensive debate on a protection plan should be held so that you can have it discussed properly and in a good way. It is true that the Right was in favour of protection when the protective plan was discussed in 2009, it wanted to protect the upper part. So it's not all times that you get it the way you want, but then it's important for our party – once a case has been adopted and decided – that there's actually someone at the other end who initially also spends time and energy assessing the watercourses that are available for expansion. It's also a responsibility we have, that we're consistent in this, and that you don't start with single-case treatment from Stortinget. From our point of view, we have had a thorough and thorough debate on the Baltic Sea watercourse. We have come to the conclusion that the decisions taken by the Stortinget, from 1973 until 2009, are a comprehensive management of our watercourses. It makes sense, therefore, that we are now following up on what has happened before, and that we are not protecting this watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e208	The island watercourse is one of the few intact watercourses in Hordaland. During the last treatment of the watercourse protection plan, the NVE recommended the entire watercourse protection. The County of Hordaland, the Directorate for Nature Management and the District of Hordaland recommended the upper part of the protection. The last was also the position of the Christian People's Party at that time. But there was no protection. When SV has made this proposal affordable, we give our support to it. Since then it has become even clearer that the watercourse must be protected. It is one of the very few in the region that gets running free from mountains to fjords, and it is also located in an important tourist area for many people. And as the NHO Travel Life points out in a letter of support to Bergen and Hordaland Turlag, an expansion will have major negative consequences for the tourism industry. Experience of pristine nature is the main reason for many foreign tourists visiting Norway. Those who come to experience Western nature must have the opportunity to experience at least one undeveloped watercourse of this quality. I'm not against hydropower, but I think there are serious reasons here to supplement the protective plan with the Øystese watercourse. And that has to be done now. When the watercourse is not protected, it is not surprising that concession applications are applied for and that concession applications are processed. The train is now running. A formal discussion and resistance to the treatment of single watercourses will, in the light of history, appear to be fairly flat. Thus the Christian People's Party supports all the proposals. We do, of course, support one proposal and, subsidisingly, the other proposals – we have to look at this when the vote is to be held. I hope, for once, that we do not have to be so suspended in formal terms that we do not seize this opportunity to do anything very important both for travel life, for nature protection and for outdoor life once and for all in Øystese.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e219	We've put together four watercourse protection plans that cover a total of 389 watercourses or sections of watercourses. The aim is to represent a representative section of Norwegian watercourse nature and to include the guidelines for the protection of watercourses. This case has probably been demanding for many of the parties, and I don't think we're going to hide it, some of us. There have been some difficult balances — both the consideration of the more principled link to what is within the protection plan, the need for an overall assessment to be completed first, and the fact that the Baltic Sea watercourse is one of the few primordial watercourses in Hordaland, and it is located in a popular and widely used open-air area. The history of the watercourse also shows that, in supplementing the protection plan in 2009, there were very different views both in terms of protection and in terms of development. Now the NVE has had two alternatives to development in the Baltic Sea basin. BKK wants to expand the upper part of the high mountain, while Øystese Kraft will expand the lower part. The NVE recommends that both be given concession. Locally, there is support for the development of the lower part of the Baltic Sea watercourse, but strong resistance to the expansion of the upper part, since the maximum protection values lie in the upper part of the watercourse and also, of course, because an extension in the upper part will be carried out in such a way that it will have a negative effect on the possibilities for extension in the lower part of the watercourse. There is no doubt that we should be careful about questions about extending the protection plans through individual cases in Stortinget. But you don't stop to do that. An extension of the protection plan may be relevant if specific natural values not covered by the plan are identified. At the same time, we know when the majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, in the vote are in order that single watercourses cannot be included without a complete revision – and these parties too – that before we get a possible overall assessment on the table in the Stortinget, the concession treatment for both the upper and lower parts of the Baltic Sea watercourse will be completed and decided. The centre party thinks this has been a demanding matter, but we believe that the Østese watercourse has important protective values, and we have therefore come to the conclusion that we will go in order to supplement the upper part of the watercourse with the protection plan for watercourses. It is also well in line with the decisions taken both in the district of Kvam heread and in the district of Hordaland. The upper part of the watercourse is of particular value for outdoor interests. It is an area that provides a basis for recreation and open-air activities for the whole region, and nearly 400,000 people have Bergsdalen and Kvamsfjella as their nearest or nearest open-air area. We know that in Hordaland there have also been very many watercourses for power generation, and the general interests of not expanding the entire Baltic Sea basin are, in our opinion, strong and need to be balanced against power expansion. Therefore, through today’s treatment, we will also support the protection and supplementation of the upper part of the watercourse into the protective plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e234	We have a watercourse protection plan in Norway. 389 watercourses are protected, and there's a discussion here in the hall if we're going to have issues about single watercourses. On the left, we believe that the Storting has a responsibility to enter into single and single watercourses when there are significant protective values that are threatened and when there are protected watercourses that are not represented in the protective plan, which are threatened. The oesophagus is such a watercourse. It has dubious qualities that clearly qualify as part of the watercourse protection plan – it is in relation to landscapes, it is in diversity in nature types from mountain to fjord, there are short distances, there is consideration for a significant outdoor life. And it's a fjord watercourse, which is little represented in the protection plan for Norway. So this is a unique watercourse in an area of significant expansions and a watercourse type that is currently not part of the protection plan. The Stortinget then has a responsibility to go in and make an assessment of this watercourse. It is not that there has been no debate in the past. In 2009 there was a clear recommendation from the NVE that it should be protected. At that time – in an overall context – the Workers' Party said no, and there is no doubt, when we look at the vote on this matter today, that it was the Workers' Party that was the leading party in the Stortinget and the government at that time to stop a protection. And today, even if you say that it's not a technocratic justification, that's a technocratic justification. For the time being, the Labour Party said no to protection and accepted a clear recommendation from the NVE and said that it would nevertheless be in favour – and that it was right – of making this assessment through a concessional treatment. But it is clear that when the Storting has already said no, the NVE will say yes in the next round. They don't go against a big deal. It's the Storting that has to turn around and change its majority to make a change. So the Workers' Party has the opportunity here to prioritize protection, support its own state in Hordaland and lay the groundwork for this type of watercourse to also be protected in Norway. The same technocratic justification is from the Right, when in 2009 a very clear recommendation from the NVE on protection – was even the leader in the argument for it – and then, when we arrive in 2016, it obviously does not have the same importance anymore. Now the Right has an opportunity to show that they're actually trustworthy, that when you make arguments, it's something that also lasts over time, that nature protection is something you're for in individual matters, and that nature protection is something you're for even when voting can have concrete consequences. The protection value is no doubt about it, it's nothing less today than what it was in 2009. But the situation has changed. Now we have a surplus of renewable energy in Norway. We have just received an energy message that points out that now is the challenge of using that force. In such a situation there really is no reason to go in to have expansions in watercourses that have the highest protection values. But the government still has an opportunity to make a choice on the nature protection side of the case, when the concession and appeal proceedings finally come to the ministry. I assume that the Right in fact, as the Prime Minister has also said, has the same position today as in 2009 and is following up the 2009 proposal. Or should it be such that it is a government council from the Progress Party that will finally – can – take – the right decision: to say no to an extension in a protective watercourse – and that is the whole watercourse? Even if you build just the lower part, Ørredalsfossen and the spectacular in it disappear. You have the opportunity to put the natural values at the top. There is no need now to press forward expansions in protective watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e249	President! Have you ever packed the mountain and taken the trip from the high mountain to the Fitjadal water and further down towards Hardangerfjorden? Have you known the footstool from Ørredalsfossen cool face after a day in the sun? Have you been sitting on a mountain shelf in the cold Fugla valley or let your feet know the blue-green water of the estuary? Then you have known nature's blessing, and that's why SV today proposes that the Eyewatercourse be protected. The island watercourse in Kvam is located in a region with a lot of hydropower production. The hydropower has created great values for Norway. Watercourse protection plans have also created values – values that are difficult to measure in crowns and ears – because they have made sure that not all watercourse nature has been built down. Watercourses are taken care of in the best interests of nature's diversity, the joys of outdoor life and future generations. In the Norwegian watercourse protection plan, the Baltic Sea watercourse belongs at home. Protection of the Pacific Ocean has been discussed for more than two decades, and during these years, all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have been in favour of protection, but unfortunately never at the same time. In 2005, all parties, except the Advance Party, asked that the government start processing with a view to protecting the Pacific Ocean. I and SV even suggested that the watercourse should be protected immediately. In 2008, Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate came up with its assessment. It was that the Baltic Sea watercourse has qualities that clearly qualify as part of the protection plan for watercourses. The landscape, the diversity of nature types, from mountain to fjord, and the potential for outdoor life – everything was important for NVE. NVE also felt that the fjord watercourse was important, precisely because fjord watercourses are too little represented in the protective plan. They therefore argued to take care of the entire watercourse, from mountain to fjord. To the SV’s disappointment, the red-green government in 2009 did not propose to include the protection of the river when the protection plan for watercourses was supplemented. Nevertheless, in the process of mass destruction, both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposed that the upper part of the river should be protected. Today, seven years later, Stortinget votes on SV’s proposal to add the Baltic Sea watercourse to the watercourse protection plan. Vern is also supported in the leadership position in the Official Journal of Bergen. This could have been a feast day for the Easter watercourse. Earlier this year, the annual meeting of the Hordaland Workers' Party went in to protect the whole Pacific Ocean. The decision was headed by the group leader in the County of Sveinung Valle. The decision was taken by a limited majority. The minority at the annual Labour Party meeting would only protect the upper part of the watercourse. All supported protection in any form. When the Senterpartiet earlier this month announced that they would support the position of Kvam Municipality and go in for the protection of the upper part of the watercourse, the bulk of the flooding for the protection of parts of the river in sight. But the big group of the Workers' Party allowed the development interests to win over nature, contrary to the protection decisions of its own county. The Labour Party today is voting against proposals to protect the upper part of the river, and thus a possible majority coincides with the SV, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party. While Jens Stoltenberg made the promise in his New Year's speech that the time for the large hydroelectric expansions was over, today's energy minister Tord Lien's mantra is that the time for the large hydroelectric expansions can and should not be over, as he said at Statnett's autumn conference in 2014. In action, the Workers’ Party shows that they have thrown their old leader’s promise on the boat and instead support Tord Lien’s mantra. Not only do they overrun their own county in Hordaland and say no to the protection of the Øystese watercourse, but they also say no to SV's proposal for a comprehensive supplement to the protection plan. For the Workers' Party, it is no longer the time of expansion that has passed, but the time of watercourse protection. And so the Labour Party continues in environmental policy and shows that the Right is right in its criticism. The right of the Stortinget also does not vote for protection today, even though they were in favour of protection both in 2005 and 2009, and although Prime Minister Erna Solberg recently confirmed that the Right still wants the protection of the upper part of the watercourse. They thus show that, in the question of wings, the principle is that others are known by themselves. Since the Workers' Party is failing, we must now hope that the Right really takes the fight for nature in government and makes sure to win the battle to protect the Baltic Sea. In other words, it's up to Erna Solberg and Tord Lien. If they submit a protection proposal to the Stortinget, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, Left and MDG stand ready to secure her and Tord Lien a broad majority. Because if you've been walking along the old steels that remind you of previous generations' use of the mountain, you can't build down the Baltic Sea watercourse. That's why I invite Tord Lien to experience the Pacific before he decides the future for it. I'd like to invite the Council of State with me on a trip to show you the blessings of the Easter River.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e268	Then the next speaker is Tord Lien. We are waiting anxiously for you to see if you can make a trip!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e272	Let me start by saying that I spend many, many hours and days in Norwegian nature. I guess I've never experienced the oesophagus, but maybe it's an opportunity. The protection of watercourses is strong in Norway. Nearly 400 watercourses are fully or partly covered by the protection plan and the importance of watercourses for biodiversity is significant. This applies to both the non-regulated and the protected watercourses, and to a maximum extent also to the regulated watercourses, which in many cases also contain rich biodiversity. However, it is also important for this government to provide a representative selection of non-regulated watercourses. At the same time, climate change is not something that can come in the future, it is something that affects us already today. This means that we need to facilitate the protection of local communities in Norway, not least in the West, against flood and rapid damage, and that also means that we need to facilitate the production of more renewable energy, and where in Norway, as I have described in detail in the Energy Communication that has just been presented, we do not only have enough renewable power to provide a power system that uses the power for far more purposes than our neighbouring countries in Europe do, Europe has a power system that remains significantly supplied with coal power. What Europe is now trying to do is develop a more renewable power system with non-regulatory sources of power – that is, what Europe is going to demand from us in the future is the power balance that regulated watercourses can provide. When the Stortinget dealt with final supplementation of the Verne Watercourse Plan in 2009, the Øystese watercourse was among the watercourses that were assessed. The Ministry of Oil and Energy considered at the time that the watercourse does not have any special protection values to ensure that the watercourse should be included in the Watercourse Protection Plan and that the values found in the watercourse can be adequately achieved through the concession treatment of any specific projects in the watercourse, which was agreed by a significant majority at that time. As I wrote in my letter to the Committee on 12 October 2015, I do not see any new information coming up that suggests a different conclusion regarding the Baltic Sea watercourse than when the Storting in 2009 chose not to include the Baltic watercourse in the Verne Plan for Watercourses. Today there are two applications for the establishment of hydropower plants in the Baltic Sea basin. They are now being treated in the ministry, based on a positive opinion from the NVE that both should be granted a concession. To the representative Eidsvoll Holmås: I can confirm that the government considers neither the time for the protection of watercourses as past nor the time for large watercourses to be past. On the contrary, it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. It is necessary to facilitate the development of more manageable power in this country because we need the power to build a sustainable Nordic and European power system, but also to protect local communities in Norway against the challenge of ever more severe rainfall and thus the risk of flooding and the course of action it entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e292	While recommending concession, the NVE emphasises that, in the event of extension, good planning and follow-up of the facilities during the construction period will have adverse effects on the environment and landscape that can be acceptable. Can the Council of State guarantee that, in its treatment of the concessions, he will give priority to a prudent development so that the qualities of the watercourse are preserved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e299	The Ministry of Oil and Energy is still at a very early stage in the handling of these concession requests. Inspection will presumptuously be carried out in the third quarter of this year, but it is always part of our concession treatment that we facilitate the design of any concession in a way that ensures all the quality of the watercourse, whether it be biodiversity and outdoor life or other considerations that need to be addressed nationally or locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e304	The minority refers to major negative consequences in the development of the watercourse. We're talking about pristine nature, outdoor life and recreation in a unique fjord watercourse. My questions to the Council of State will be: Is it wise to sacrifice this unique area in order to offer well 4,000 power in an area with surplus power? And: should it be as easy to add a watercourse to the protective plan as it is to extract a watercourse?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e311	Now these two things are being dealt with in the department, and we're still at an early stage. An inspection is planned in the third quarter of this year, and therefore it is far too early to say whether a concession is granted, and what conditions will be imposed in such a concession. But as I also said to the representative, Ljunggren, it is fully possible to take care of many of these considerations, both in terms of outdoor life and biodiversity, even in cases where a concession is granted – without any indication of what conditions will be laid down in this case because it has not yet been decided whether to grant a concession to the project for which it is applied for, either for the upper or lower part of the watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e316	I can recommend the Council of State to take part in an inspection along the Øystese watercourse and see Ørredalsfossen – I did it last Saturday. It's a very concentrated area, with great variation. I don't know how many hundreds of hydropower concessions and applications are at NVE, large and small. There is a large amount, and that in a situation where we have a surplus of power in Norway. At the same time, the recommendation of the NVE, when they made their independent, comprehensive assessment, is clear: the whole Baltic Sea watercourse should be protected. The council also said that the time for protecting watercourses was not over. When we know that there are precisely fjord watercourses that are missing in the protection plan, will the Council of State make an assessment of the extension of protection that also includes the Baltic Sea watercourse?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e323	No work is currently being done in the ministry to extend the watercourse protection plan. The size has completed a final supplement to the protection plan, but nearly 400 watercourses have been protected in Norway. It is right that we maintain a representative sample of protected watercourses, unregulated watercourses, which the Storting has also been in several times. There's a lot of talk about my own relationship with outdoor life. I have to say that I have had the great joy of walking in the mountains both in Salten, in Helgeland, in Ofoten, in other parts of Norway and in Scotland, and I must say that my experience of nature is not necessarily weakened by seeing that one has actually also reaped from the rich resources of nature giving us. With regard to all these concessions, the Energy Communication states that small power does not necessarily provide more of what we need, namely the ability to deliver power balances in winter time when we still have a shortage of energy in parts of the country, as opposed to what regulation might do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e332	If Elvestuen wants another line, he can have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e335	Yes, I'd like to – it's about concession. The council says in its statement that the time for protecting watercourses is not over, but he says in the reply to the reply that no, there is no work going on to protect further watercourses, and he has also pointed out that there are 389 watercourses that are protected. In other words, the only way we can now get an extension is in the Council's assessment of complaints about concessional treatment coming to the ministry. In a situation where there are many applications in place, many will be charged to the ministry, it must be the task of the Council of State to sort them in such a way that they are the least controversial, which is being developed, and the controversial ones, such as the Baltic Sea watercourse, can be taken care of. Then the question becomes: can the Council of State confirm that he will at least make an assessment on the basis of a whole, so that he has his words in mind, that the time for protection is not over?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e342	Of course, I can confirm that in our treatment of concessions, the row of the controversial is part of our proceedings. We focus on the concerns of local communities, we focus on the balance between outdoor life and biodiversity, of course. But back to the representative Elvesuen points to. Well, there are many concessions, and very many of those concessions are small power plants, which obviously contribute to higher volume of power produced in Norway, but which do not contribute to the system our demand for, and Europe's demand, namely the ability to deliver power in winter time, when the wind does not blow and the sun does not shine in Norway and Europe, and our power system needs power. I also think that is an objective that we need to address in our treatment of concessions in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e350	Several speakers have argued that the NVE considered that there are protection values in the watercourse, but now recommend development. But just to clarify something about an obvious truth: if you ask NVE if a watercourse contains protective values, and they answer yes, and the Storting refuses to protect, it is quite obvious that if you ask again whether this is a watercourse that has hydropower resources that we can build up, they could also recommend expansion, as they have done in this case. Now it has been said that Erna Solberg to Bergen's Official Journal about two weeks ago said very clearly that she still believes that the upper part of the Øystese watercourse should be protected. That's why I have one question for Tord Lien: Will the Council of State's treatment of the concession requests also be able to consider protection as an alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e357	Let me start with the relationship between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the NVE. As a former member of the government, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås knows very well that a significant part of the Norwegian administration, including the departmental structure, is built up in accordance with a general principle with strong professional environments also in the departments. That's the way it is in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. When the Ministry of Oil and Energy carried out an assessment of the possible special protection values of the Baltic Sea Treaty in 2009, the Ministry concluded that such values were not present and that the values present could be achieved through the concession treatment now taking place in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So this case is at an early stage yet. Whether or not a concession is granted is too early to decide now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e364	The protection values in the Baltic Sea watercourse are well documented, and there are values related to the additional watercourse, which are less focused on, among other things. that it is one of the last and most important salmon-bearing watercourses in a fjord that has had more Christmasing than any other fjord in Norway by the farming industry, which makes this eleven extra important. Then, as the years go by, we are building up more of a Norwegian nature, while the obligations to take care of biodiversity and nature are increasing. It suggests that the remaining pristine nature is getting more and more value. The question is: does the Council of State agree that the value of pristine nature and of the Baltic Sea watercourse must necessarily be even higher today than it was before, when it was considered a protective watercourse? And: is the Council of State going to take such a thought into account: that the value of pristine nature increases for every year that goes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e373	I have no problem recognising that the value of pristine nature should not be ignored. Of course, the fact that Norwegian youth and adults can continue to experience pristine nature, including pristine watercourse nature, is worth maintaining. At the same time, we face a climate challenge in the Nordic countries and Europe that is not insignificant. This means both protecting local communities more than in the past against floods and migration, and facilitating increased renewable energy production for both national and international purposes. Then I repeat what I said: in 2009 the ministry had a hearing and a thorough review and then concluded that there were no special qualities that were not included in watercourses that are already protected, and that these values, which are obviously present, can be well achieved through the ministry's concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e382	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e387	The island watercourse is one of the few watercourses that are again linked from mountain to fjord in my home state, Hordaland. The area has a fantastic nature. There is a lot of open-air use, and here the old roads go from Hardanger to Hamlagrø. Here are the roads to Breidablick and Vending. The Fugladalen and Vossadalen are very high-quality natural areas. Those who have been in sight have seen this, and therefore the whole committee should have been there and seen. Maybe it's too rare that we at this house are on sightings? When managing the watercourse protection plan last selected flooding majority, do not go for the protection of this unique watercourse. Let's not be formalistic. It is quite unusual to take protection decisions on the basis of a proposal from a representative, but this is a matter of urgency, and it is possible to fix errors from yesterday – the last time the Storting handled the protection plan and left the Eyewaters section out. Our descendants need this area, they need it for recreation, and by protecting them, we want to do them a great service. The Christian People's Party is not against power expansion, but we must save some of these pearls that are untouched, for future generations, and for tourists who also come to experience both wild and pristine Norwegian nature. It is also an important part of the income base in the past and in the future, and it is also about tourism as a business development. The Baltic Sea watercourse is an open-air area, an unusually high-quality natural park, with its intrinsic value and uniqueness. Had nature win out today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e398	I'm not from Kvam, but I was so lucky to have my tourniquet in Kvam here, where I bid in Øystese, on my way up to the Fitja Valley. So yes, I have experienced the blessing of the Øysese watercourse, as the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås said in his contribution. NVE’s 2006 setting stated that the Baltic Sea watercourse has ‘qualitys that clearly qualify the watercourse as part of a watercourse protection plan’. However, the watercourse was not included in the protective plan, but it is said that the Storting will open up for reassessment of protection if the concession management reveals that the development of the watercourse is not relevant. I think there are several issues that have changed since 2009. NVE’s 2006 recommendation stated that the watercourse ‘is very much used for outdoor and recreational purposes’. This image is strongly enhanced. The mountain region is growing, and even today as many as perhaps 300,000 people have this as a relatively close open-air area. Hordaland County has now surveyed the open-air areas regionally. This box is used to categorize Quammfjella as a very important output area. The Fitja valley is considered an important area. Also, the landscape mapping carried out in 2011 by Hordaland County reinforces NVE’s 2006 assessment of ‘richness of variation’ with regard to landscapes. The landscape at the end of the Øystesselva in Hardangerfjorden is, for example: Here you can set the value of a region including a large value. NVE stated in 2006 that the Baltic Sea watercourse is ‘relatively untouched, while towards a region that is relatively heavily affected by power generation’. This point has also been reinforced since that time. There are now plans and applications for multiple power transmissions from small power plants in the vicinity of the Baltic Sea basin. It's also a point that the sea urchin in the Pacific Ocean has a threat status. Changes in the water flow regime will be very unfortunate for the laxative distance. An extension in the lower part will be able to take account of this. An extension in the upper part will make this difficult. The majority of the Stortinget – Right, the Advance Party and the Workers’ Party – will not be in favour of the protection of single watercourses without a holistic revision or addition of the Protection Plan for Watercourses. I mean this is to hide behind principle, in a matter that is absolutely about politics. The Hordaland Workers' Party intervened at its annual meeting for the full protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse. The fact that they are now the party that creates multiples to open up for the full expansion of the Eyewater Treaty is sad. In this case, the Hordaland Center Party has been working to protect the upper part of the watercourse. This is where the consequences for nature and outdoor life are greatest. This proposal should be able to have a number of speeches on Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e417	As the decisions in the Hordaland Labour Party receive such touching care from some of the parties, the representatives and the case rapporteur in this Chamber, I thought I would say a few words about it. The Hordaland Workers' Party went for was to protect a watercourse because it had the character that NVE also pointed to in 2009 – a pristine watercourse from mountain to fjord. That's the big point. It's beautiful. Yes, there are many watercourses that are beautiful, and nature is generally beautiful. It shall not in itself constitute a basis for protection. That's the way we pick out watercourses to the protective plan. The fact that we didn't get into the big group with those arguments, we take note. In the Workers' Group we have good discussions, where there are arguments that win, regardless of the bidders. This time, Hordaland did not win the Workers' Party with his vision. We'll take note of that. But I'm reacting to the pessimism and the very limited belief that lies in our concession treatment system in terms of hydropower development. It is not exactly that the Bjoreid Valley is desolated by natural experiences because it is a regulated watercourse. It's not like the other watercourses in Hordaland, where the right number of people are regulated, are completely shattered and not worth a glance from people. It's not like that. I am convinced that after a concession treatment, and if the department grants concession for expansion, we will still have a beautiful tour area. We will still have this as an arena of natural experiences for those who use this area today, we will be able to take care of biodiversity, and we will protect the natural values that are there. I assume that the ministry will facilitate it in its concession treatment, and also – if it is granted a development permit – that there will then be leadership in it. What I have to say is that I have a little bigger problems to understand – now that the principles you should not have in this debate, I understand – is that you have to protect the upper part, but not the lower part, that it is okay. Then I believe that at least the NVE's assessments cannot begin to be drawn into this, for the NVE's assessment is about a holistic, unregulated watercourse from mountain to fjord. That was the argument from NVE. If you go into the bottom section, you don't have that argument anymore. Then you are left with that it is beautiful in the upper part. And we're going to take care of that even in case of any expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e430	I want to get straight with a few of the claims that came from Tord Lien. He believes that it is important to develop more water for the sake of the climate. I think it's a little strange when it's only a week since Tord Lien himself made a big message – an energy message – where the most important thing he took was to abolish support for new renewable energy. Then it's hard to say that it's important to get more. It's not very credible to claim that Tord Lien then claims. If he is engaged in power abroad, it would be logical to propose the construction of more foreign connections than those already approved by the Stortinget. There has not been any mention of Tord Lien in his energy message. Then he must not make decisions in the department as if they were purely technical decisions. It's pretending to be unsavory naïve. I don't think it's wise to do that, because all the decisions taken by the Department are the responsibility of the Council of State. All alerts, such as: the notification of the protection of watercourses, the addition of watercourse protection, is the promotion of the government. Yes, there are technical decisions at the bottom, but the politicians are the ones who take the decision, and then the Council of State must not make it appear that this is about the evaluation of the government. Although I have been sitting 15 years on the Stortinget soon, I am still being provoked by the fact that the Council of State deliberately leaves no answer to the question that I asked. I asked the Council of State the following questions: Will the protection of the upper part of the Baltic Sea watercourse be something which is assessed in the context of the concessional treatment, as the Prime Minister publicly states that she still wishes, or is it only a game for the gallery of the Prime Minister when she says that she believes today about the protection of the upper part of the watercourse as she did the last time this was dealt with? To the Workers' Party and Per Rune Henriksen, who say that here it's not right to be principled – here there's no one who wants to be principled in the hall – I just want to say the following: The Labour Party has taken a decision, a principle decision, as I understood Anna Ljunggren in her post, that you don't want to protect single watercourses, but see protective plans in a whole and in a context. Well, we're actually promoting that very proposal, to ask the government to get a complete supplement to watercourse protection. But that is also true of the Labour Party. Then it's just to stop that the Workers' Party is against further protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e441	First to the representative Per Rune Henriksen: I actually have great respect for the decision of the Hordaland Workers' Party, I think they have a very good reason – that it is precisely the whole of the watercourse that is why it should be taken care of, that is the short stretch where one has the great variation. But it can't be that there's an argument for expansion that there are other watercourses that can still give nature values to go in, even if it's natural interference. Of course, the NVE when it is allowed to expand, is based on a quality that makes the intervention as small as possible. What's unique about the Oystese watercourse is not that you don't see interference. If the state is concerned that you don't have the ability to see power lines, you have it. This is where the famous previously mentioned sample masts go right over here. They're standing there reddish and visible, so that's a good opportunity to see them. What's important about the Baltic Sea watercourse is that there's a river that runs freely. Here, too, there is no discussion about floods. This is where you take the water from the Baltic Sea watercourse and direct it over to Samnanger. It is clear that there are major changes in the entire watercourse. That's also why it's important to take care of the entire watercourse. It is the extension of the upper part which gives the most negative effect in particular to the salmon and the anadromous fish in the very lower parts of the watercourse. For the left, it's like yes, we want the entire watercourse protected, but if we have to choose, the main negative effects for the nature of the upper part are. For the landscape and for the fox, the development of the lower part will also have major consequences, because Ørredalsfossen will not have the spectacular shape it has today. For it, expansion will have a negative impact. In the case of salmon fishing, one could still have a flow for the salmon to maintain its position. In the light of the debate, the same will happen again: the Labour Party would not protect the watercourse as it was an overall assessment. Then you put it in a concessional treatment. When the NVE follows the 2009 assessment when treating a concession, it will not be re-examined when you have it as a single matter. The right was because it was a whole assessment, but now that we can actually protect, you won't do it. Finally, it will be the Council of State that will have to take full responsibility. The protective values are no one to dispute. There are protective values which are otherwise not protected. The Council of State must take responsibility here and ensure that the Baltic Sea watercourse is finally protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e456	There is at least one thing we have to remember in the Storting when we work together to find solutions to the climate challenge we have, and that is that the solution is not to pour the rest of nature out with the bath water. If you do that, you've realized very little about what the climate problem is about, because the climate problem is that it destroys the natural basis. The fact that it gets hot is not a problem in itself – it is that the natural basis and the basis for producing food, and all other aspects of it, are being destroyed. Therefore, preserving nature is an extremely important part of solving the climate problem. There is a major problem in the Norwegian climate debate that there seems to be a lot of people who perceive it the other way around, namely that the climate problem has become a stronger argument for destroying the rest of our nature. And then we are in the situation, as many have pointed out, that we have a huge surplus of renewable energy in Norway. That's good in itself, we're going to need it, but it's not like we're going to have clear and detailed plans for how to use that force surplus. On the contrary, we are in the blind and end up in a situation where power prices are getting so low that they become a main argument for undermining energy efficiency, which is really a huge potential and very necessary to implement. And, above all, low power prices are used – not least in this room – as an argument for not focusing on the development of truly new, truly promising, truly important energy technologies, such as: sea wind. We have come into a situation where we are building up more and more renewable power with traditional technology in Norway, making Norway an increasingly slowing down in the development of renewable energy technologies, on which other countries are betting, and on which Statoil and other Norwegian companies are investing abroad, whereas the government is thus preventing its own renewable locomotive – State power – from doing the same, namely expanding the technologies that we really need. We've got a good example here that when the Right actually has to deliver on its nature protection promises, they don't. When the Workers' Party actually has the opportunity to deliver on its nature protection promises, they do not. This is the great tragedy of Norwegian nature protection, that the big, heavy parties do not keep what they promise. But we still have an opportunity – and I would like to stress this, based on the statements made by the Prime Minister – to ensure that the government protects at least the upper part of the Baltic Sea basin, and thus at least partially delivers on its own conservation promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e466	When I hear this debate, it almost sounds like this is carrying or breaking for the entire watercourse protection system. Then I find reason to remember that after the closing addition of the Verne Watercourse Plan from 2009, almost 400 watercourses in Norway are fully or partially protected. It was Eidsvoll Holmås who made me take the floor. In the Energy Communication, the government describes how the volume of power in the Nordic power system is high, while obviously it is important to facilitate the continued profitable deployment of renewable power in Norway. And when we know that adjustable power often has a lower expansion cost per kWt, but can also get a much higher value for each kWt produced, precisely because they can exploit the fluctuations in the market, and precisely because they can produce power in winter, profitability is often higher. And it's now that a significant part of our well-being is based on income from energy resources. In the future, a larger part of them must be renewable. This also applies to natural interventions, both because you get more kWt out of the interventions, and because regulation itself makes the need for new power infrastructure, i.e. new power move infrastructure, smaller, precisely because you can turn off and turn on production. So there's also something that speaks for increasing the importance of regulation in the future. I do not know what the energy message the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has read – if he claims that the government does not say that we want to facilitate the continued development of international power trading. This government has given concession to a 50 pst. increase in trade with the rest of the world. And it's clear in the message that we're going to continue this, but we need to understand how this increase affects our own system, among other things. in the form of increased transmission capacity domestically, before moving on. I must admit that I think the representative Eidsvoll Holmås understood perfectly well what I said. There is no doubt that Terje Riis-Johansen was responsible for the decision taken in 2009, and I am responsible for the decision taken by the government in this case. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, we have built up the system that we have, with a department and a minister in charge of a professionally competent office, but that the decision and the assessment, the responsibility for the assessment, of course, at last lies with the oil and energy minister who is always in office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e477	I just want to quote what's in our notes, that: ‘an assessment of whether the Baltic Sea watercourse has specific qualities, which are not present in already protected watercourses, can best be done through a concessional treatment.’ That doesn't mean we're against the future protection of watercourses. No, it turns out that watercourses with qualities that are not already protected should be protected, and we will strongly consider it. However, we have said that a concession treatment should be based on whether or not to protect the Baltic Sea watercourse, and the NVE recommended just before Christmas that the matter be assessed in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and that there are no special qualities in the watercourse, on the basis that it may not be possible to extend it. There will always be some who will continue to challenge the protection plan, and the representative Rigmor Aasrud challenged the Council of State on this very point. For the Workers' Party, it is not appropriate to extract watercourses that are already protected from the protection plan. We have a long tradition of protection, we take protection seriously, but in some cases there may be a need to assess whether action should be taken to prevent floods and ensure that communities are not hit hard. When Stortinget adopted final additions in this room on 9 June 2009, two principles were set for further power development. One was that the views of local authorities were to be taken into account in concession treatment, and we assume from the Workers' Party that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will take into account the assessment that is to be made. The second was that in the event of power expansion, it would have to be gentle to ensure the quality of the watercourse. I would like to stress that these principles are still the Labour Party's policy. It's not being technocratic, but it's political.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e491	It's interesting to hear that there are some people who have the exclusive right to decide whether decisions are for or against the environment. It's actually not like that. In fact, we in the Right too have a strong tradition of protecting what should be protected, and taking good, thorough assessments of how this should happen. It could be tempting to enter into a debate on the Energy Communication. I'm not going to do that, but at least I'm glad that we are at Stortinget that will set the framework for how to deal with future renewable energy. And I'm very happy that we're not going to consider what we're going to expand or not expand, and whether we have a power deficit or a power surplus. It would have been exciting to see what industries we would have been left with if there were short-term assessments of a surplus of power that would form the basis of future energy policy in Norway. It would have been exciting to look at, and it can't be like that. I think it's a good idea that we're laying the framework, and then the world around us has something to do with, so that we get the development that we want nationally, and that we take responsibility internationally. That's how I think we're going to deal with it in the future, and that's how I think the Right is going to deal with this kind of thing in the years to come. But it is not said that we are expanding everything that can be expanded, and that we are destroying nature. I believe that what we're talking about here is whether or not we're going to supplement the protective plan. That is what this matter is really about. We have said that we have had a thorough assessment. When considering the protection plans and the watercourses for which an overall assessment is to be made, it is reasonable that this should be done through a comprehensive assessment of all the watercourses at your disposal. What is to be done now is to have a concessional treatment. In this concession treatment, the values are to be kept in the best possible way, so that if you grant a concession, you do it in such a gentle way that the natural values that are there are not destroyed and you take into account the diversity of nature. Then it could have been tempting to make a story from my own municipality, where I could have taken the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to a watercourse that is extended. We could have started in Tjorvi, we could have fished the kilos and gone down, looked at the swans and the beautiful ends that are in the watercourse, fed us down, looked at the diversity of nature and the trunks of an already developed watercourse. So it's going to take into account both the environment and a gentle development, if you want, and if you want. And I actually believe that it's those who are going to give concession, fully capable of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e504	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e507	I'd like to be with Odd Henriksen, thank you for the invitation. I hope the Council of State will respond equally positively to my invitation. To Odd Henriksen, there's one thing that's important to say about the Right Line in this case: they were to complement last with this concrete watercourse. They voted for that last time. This time they vote against, allegedly because they do not want to deal with one watercourse separately, but they also vote against the possibility of supplementing the protection plan in a comprehensive manner. If they're serious about what Erna Solberg says, they should vote for an overall assessment of the protection plan, so that you could also get another treatment for the Oystese vassal. To Tord Lien – he has spoken twice now, but he has still not answered my question: Will protection be one of the things that are being considered in the context of the concession treatment? And if he doesn't respond positively to that question, then we can't stop except that Erna Solberg's statement that she still wants the protection of the upper part of the Baltic Sea is game for the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e516	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e519	To Odd Henriksen: Yes, of course there are also qualities in watercourses that are developed – it should really be lacking. It's always going to be like that. We have to expect that there's a quality there, but here it's the unique thing about the Baltic that's going to be gone. It's just that you have this short stretch, that you have the free flood and the variation that is now there, that will be gone. It'll be a completely different river with different qualities. The unique will not be there as before. But then to the issue of the Baltic Sea watercourse itself: it is not that this has not been a debate and a discussion. It's been the whole period since 2009. The matter has been there as a disagreement. What is the difference from 2009 is that we have had a choice in the meantime, which means that now you have a majority to implement what is the Right View, which was the Right View in 2009. And you have to expect that parties have a fuss that means that when you get the opportunity, you do what you've made visible and gone to the elections in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e540	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to four rows of replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e549	The defence industry is one of Norway’s leading industries. The defence industry contributes to Norwegian defence, national independence, innovation, advanced technological knowledge and development, international competitiveness, multi-use technology, international cooperation, workplaces, scattered housing and tax revenues. In addition, the defence industry is economically independent. Despite this, several political parties and various tax-funded organisations are trying to do their utmost to make the defence industry more and more difficult. In other words, you're talking about the branch you're sitting on. The same political trends are also largely opposed to Norwegian oil activity and believe that Norway should live on what they call ‘the green shift’. How this shift is going to bring the necessary billions into taxes is somewhat uncertain. You're going to have to pick up even more of them. The paradox becomes complete when, without exception, the same political flows are accompanied by a comprehensive welfare state and a large public sector to administer it — yes, they even live by it. But I'll leave this to me. The Norwegian defence industry is well positioned for continued growth and development. The product portfolio consists of mature but modern world-class solutions. While others are talking and looking for entrepreneurs and politician-driven innovation, the Norwegian defence industry is delivering this through its own competence and ability to deliver. Report. Article 9 for 2015–2016 shows that the Norwegian defence industry in certain areas is world leader. With falling oil prices and high unemployment among engineers, the Norwegian defence industry will be able to gain top expertise from several sectors, creating scope for development and, as a result, creating synergies for products in the civil market. A good example of this is the cluster of technology companies in Kongsberg Technology Park, where companies through cooperation and competition, among others. develops composite, maritime and space technologies. Another is the industrial park at Raufoss, where Nammo produces not only ammunition, but also space technology and advanced methods of demilitarization. Leading defence industry companies also have a significant number of Norwegian subcontractors active and employed in the districts across the country. All the talk about creating the jobs of the future by facilitating the creation of new business start-ups is greatly exaggerated. While looking for Norwegian entrepreneurs who have created a high number of permanent jobs over time, the defence industry creates new high-tech jobs every day. It is always exciting to follow a business venture in the hope that it will lead to employment of importance, but it is far more wise to facilitate and support established high-tech enterprises that have demonstrated their ability to create new, advanced technological products – and not least their ability to earn money and pay taxes to finance our common well-being. The international defence material market is characterised by protectionism. Yes, in fact, this industry is exempt from the competition rules applicable to other industries. It is important that Norway also use political governance to ensure its own industry and at the same time develop strategic material cooperation with our alliance partners in NATO. With this Communication, the Government ensures a predictable framework for the defence industry and ensures that international competition in the field will take place on equal terms. In practice, this means that the defence should primarily choose the Norwegian defence industry in the development, further development, maintenance and acquisition of the eight technology areas defined by the government in consultation with the Defence and Defence Industry as strategic in order to maintain the necessary competences, defence needs and national security interests. This means that the Norwegian defence industry should be used in acquisitions, but if other reasons are found not to use the Norwegian defence industry, the Norwegian defence industry should be there as a repurchasing partner, even in cases where a different solution is chosen. This means that the price of the material desired to be acquired or developed in these areas is not to be given decisive importance and that other considerations trump cost. This does not mean, however, that acquisition costs are not important, but that the purchase and development of defence equipment leads to years of international bonds that can reduce the Norwegian defence industry. Many go in the error that acquisition of necessary material for the defence is a purely expenditure item. That's not true. Through active use of internationally recognised repurchase agreements and other forms of international cooperation, the Norwegian defence industry sells 99 cents for each krone. Yes, defence systems are expensive to acquire, and costs are increasing, but parallel exports of the Norwegian defence industry are increasing. No other public undertaking may refer to such a consistent relationship. The fact that the government is now concrete and prioritizing eight technology areas does not mean that other Norwegian defence industry should also be given good framework conditions for deliveries to the Defence Agency. An example of this will be encryption technology, which is increasingly in demand, and which is an area in which Norwegian industry is competitive. I would like to add that there are Norwegian encryption companies that have obtained contracts abroad on a competitive basis only, and that is impressive. It's become very popular to talk about what we're going to live on in the future. The Norwegian defence industry is the future. It creates, develops, maintains, employs, cooperates and pays taxes, while at the same time ensuring its defence capacity and maintaining peace – a unique and unique combination. We should all be proud of the Norwegian defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e580	Let me first say that the debate on this matter is also related to the next case, which is Announce. Article 8 for 2015–2016 on exports, which is not included in this Communication, even if it deals with framework conditions for exports. It comes in the next case. The defence industry is an integral part of our defence policy. Or to say it with the message: «The existence of the national defence industry is strongly linked to national security needs.» I agree with the government that a national defence industry with competence in critical capacity and technology areas can be crucial for our ability to ensure national security. Over the last 20 to 30 years, the defence industry has undergone extensive conversion in many countries. It involves and includes cooperation between countries on material investment. Examples of development cooperation were the development of Joint Striker — or F-35 — over a long period of time between eight NATO countries, among others. Norway, which paid annually for the development of the project. Examples are several, often linked to less defence acquisitions. In addition to cooperation within the NATO alliance, it includes cooperation on defence materials between Nordic countries, i.e. three NATO countries and two neutral countries. The two neutral countries are also members of the EU and EU defence policy. This is in many ways part of, not to say, defence cooperation in the Nordic Defence Organisation NORDEFCO. It is a cooperation that takes place both across and across the various security-policy anchorages that the Nordic countries have, and it is increasing cooperation. It is interesting and important that NATO has expressed support for this type of regional cooperation on defence and security policy between NATO and non-NATO countries. This cooperation is important for industry and it is increasingly important for Norwegian industry to have the Nordic defence market – the material acquisition market. This is also in many ways what NATO calls ‘Smart Defence’ and will increase in the coming years. If Nordic defence cooperation gradually evolves into regional cooperation within NATO, time will show us. When said about cooperation between countries on defence acquisitions, most countries — and this includes Norway — consider the ability to deliver defence equipment themselves as an integral part of their defence capabilities. The notification indicates that the NATO market is declining both in nominal terms and relative to other emerging markets. This also marks the Norwegian defence industry. A modern defence industry is an integral part of our defence and security policy with great strategic importance for Norway. It is important that we also have an export market. Nevertheless, while it is important for the Norwegian defence industry to have an export market outside the NATO alliance and the Nordic countries, it is important that it relates to the rules and regulations decided by the Stortinget. In the debate on the next issue, we will focus on where Norwegian defence equipment is to be exported. I think it is important and necessary that representatives of the industry sometimes listen to what I would call the voice of the people. Now I'm not going to repeat what the case rapporteur said about the organisations, but it may sometimes be that the volunteer organizations are squeezing at us a little to arouse our conscience and to make us think a little bit. I think it is important that the Norwegian defence industry does not export to countries in war and countries that violate fundamental human rights, which are the adopted guidelines for the export of defence material. I would like to point out that countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar have contributed far on the way to the success of ISISIL. You could think about that a little bit. In addition, Saudi Arabia is one of the countries that violates the vast majority of human rights. I refer you to the debate on the next issue. The Norwegian defence industry is highly specialised and has world-leading technologies and products. In fact, the defence industry is among our leading innovators with ring-effects for a number of subcontractors. Many of these developed products have been developed together with subcontractors, but also through close cooperation between other industries, the FFI and the Defence, which requires and uses them. This is a cooperation that is effective for a small country such as Norway, where the lines of communication are short and effective. I guess it's also right to say that the defence industry produces great values and ensures a lot of jobs. To meet the challenges of the future, the defence sector must be able to take full advantage of new technologies. As the message underlines, it is fundamental to the defence's ability to perform its tasks. This is precious. Norway must contribute to the burden-sharing and costs of NATO membership. I record that the government has decided to establish its own office under the Ministry of Defence to strengthen the strategic direction of material investment in the defence sector. The new establishment will be an important point of contact for the defence industry. Otherwise, I note that the government is counting on a development of the defence industry based, among other things, on the development of the defence industry. competence, innovation, technology, cooperation and migration, and cost-effective production. It has the support of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e620	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good and thorough cooperation. So I just want to comment on Marit Nybakk's posts: I want to make it clear that the industry companies are listening to them at all times the rules and guidelines in force, and that this is the U.D. that contribute to setting the framework for. The Government's communication, the national defence industrial strategy, is an important message for the defence industry, but it is also important for the protection of our national security. The commitment to the defence industry has taken a long step forward by the fact that this is the first time we have a pure-bred national defence industrial strategy. The main objective of the Government with this Communication is to safeguard national security interests by maintaining and further developing an international, competitive Norwegian defence industry. Defence policy shall contribute to national sovereignty, freedom of action and security. The defence industry shall develop reliable technological solutions to contribute to the safety, security and efficiency of our soldiers when carrying out complex high-risk operations under extreme conditions. How we build up and develop our defence capabilities affects the defence industry's devices. The national defence industry is strongly linked to national security needs. I am pleased that we have a world-class defence industry in Norway. Indeed, the defence industry is part of the overall resources that society needs in order to ensure the best possible preparedness and response capacity in crisis and war. The fact that we have a Norwegian defence industry helps to strengthen defence capabilities through a high level of security of supply and material preparedness. National solutions for the development, production and maintenance of critical materials are necessary to ensure our safety. I am pleased that we have a government that emphasises the importance of having a national defence industry, that it facilitates a stable and predictable framework, and that it facilitates research and development. Defence needs a national defence industry – Norwegian conditions require national solutions and adaptations. Our companies are internationally competitive and world leaders in parts of the market. Industry has profitable high-tech skilled workplaces with activities throughout the country. The production and export of defence equipment is a major asset in Norway, contributes to the development of advanced technology competences and ensures an important national competence environment. It is therefore important that the defence industry remains in Norway. The defence industry also has major positive ring-effects through research, innovation and knowledge transfer to other industries. It is a good cooperation between the Defence Agency, the Defence Research Institute and the defence industry. The Government continues this important cooperation and emphasises the need for the defence sector and the defence industry to benefit from civilly developed technologies where this is appropriate and can contribute to strengthening defence capabilities. Unlike the Norwegian defence market, it turns out that the vast majority of nations have a very closed and protectionist defence market. It is therefore difficult for other nations to gain access to open and fair competition. Figures from the FSi Association of the Defence and Security Industries show that Norway acquires 30 pst. of self-produced defence material, while six of our closest allies are between 83 and 99 pst. national purchases. So the big national actors get defense equipment from themselves. There is therefore a need for Norway to continue to press on with multinational cooperation projects in order to try to open up this market. At the same time, when critical technology for our national security so warrants, we must take advantage of the possibility to derogate from general competition principles, as Article 123 of the EEA Agreement allows us, and produce this material nationally. The government has made it clear in the strategy that if the necessary competence, production and maintenance capacities in some critical areas are not available in the market, national solutions for the development, production and maintenance of some critical materials may be absolutely necessary, so that our national freedom of action does not depend on another country or a foreign supplier. The Government will also give priority to specific technological areas of competence for national bets. This shall ensure predictability and long-termity for industry. Specific competence in selected technology areas is an important part of our security interests and the continuation of this type of competence will be a common national task. Eight technology areas have been selected to form the basis for cooperation between industry and defence, and this will be at the heart of the future cooperation strategy. The eight technology areas indicate where Defence sees a special need for expertise in the Norwegian defence industry. The areas of competence will also be used as a basis for the selection of research and development and industrial cooperation projects. This means that in the acquisition of materials in which the Norwegian industry has the prerequisites for providing food-efficient solutions meeting the needs of the defence and which are relevant for maintaining industrial competence in the eight areas of technological competence, the defence should use national industry. A Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has also made it clear that when the Defence acquires materials from abroad that are relevant to the ability and ability of the Norwegian defence industry to maintain and further develop competence and technology in the eight technology areas, foreign suppliers shall be required to have binding industrial cooperation agreements. Such repurchase agreements ensure Norwegian defence industry market access to our partners and provide an important basis for larger deliveries to the foreign market. A comprehensive strategy is important to further develop the opportunities for Norwegian industry to participate in international material cooperation and to ensure that Norwegian enterprises are best placed to deliver material and services to the Defence, where appropriate. It is an ambition that the Norwegian defence industry should have the same good framework conditions as the industry it is competing against. The strategy also suggests that Norway will increasingly cooperate with other nations on the acquisition of defence equipment. International material cooperation is becoming increasingly important in achieving complex, high-tech defence capabilities. I know that the Minister of Defense is actively working up against our close allies, where NATO is an important arena for such cooperation. At the same time, the government would like to stress that Norway’s national security needs are fixed and that they are the leader in our defence acquisitions. The Minister of Defence also cooperates with the Nordic countries and the Nordic defence industries on joint material procurement that has given and can provide savings for the future. Finally, the Norwegian defence industry is a significant industry and an industry in growth. It was traded for between 12 and 14 billion. kr in 2015, with an annual value creation of 4 to 6 billion. kr, representing around 5000 annual works. In recent years, the export share of production has increased and the order reserve is larger than ever. The national defence industry strategy shall ensure good cooperation between the defence sector and the defence industry based on the needs of the defence sector for reliable technological solutions to contribute to the safety, security and efficiency of our soldiers when carrying out complex high-risk operations under extreme conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e664	Norway's independence and freedom are important values. Norway must therefore have a national defence that can protect it from attack and provide security. But the defense can't live in isolation, it depends on people's trust. The defence depends on the existence of defence, military competence and an industrial competence environment in our own country. According to the Christian People's Party's view, there are so many important reasons why we as a nation must have a defence-industrial strategy. An important objective of such a strategy is to promote national security interests by maintaining and further developing an internationally competitive Norwegian defence industry. The strategy put forward by the government in the big message is in many ways a continuation of the principle we have built over the past ten years. Purchasing shall be based on the principle of competition, non-discrimination and non-discrimination as long as national security does not require exemptions. Norway will increasingly cooperate with other nations on the purchase of defence equipment. Norwegian enterprises still need to ensure a clear and prudent framework for their export activity. As part of this, a system of authority support for marketing and industrial cooperation continues. Defence procurement often extends over a longer period of time, often over several majorisation periods. We are currently seeing that in the purchase of new fighter aircraft. It will be mainland Norway's largest investment project. It's The Storing that's the Leverage Authority. It gives responsibility to the Storting, but also to the government. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Defence follows up and informs the Storting about progress in all relevant aspects related to major purchases. It is not least the economic, industrial and military balances of the projects. In the light of international developments in military technology, it is important to ensure that Norway is not overtaken by technology. The defence industry must therefore be at the forefront of research and development. It is important for the defence because it ensures an important national environment of competence on which the defence is fully dependent. Such technological developments may also be important for industrial development and value creation in Norway more generally, for new technologies often also have civil applications. We've seen that before, and we'll see that in the future as well. The defence industry strategy also has an impact on economic and technological development in Norway. I have noticed that this, with very few and small exceptions, is a unanimous committee position. There is also agreement that the defence-industrial strategy should focus on eight areas of technology, which, quite rightly, cover a very wide area, where some of the areas will raise both ethical and legal issues that we need to address, including some forms of autonomous system. In the light of the debates we have on defence policy, the consensus on the defence industrial strategy is greater than expected. We're going to have to take that as a bonus. This will show if the unity succeeds when they override the principle to be transformed into practical decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e679	I would also like to thank the case spokesman for a good cooperation in the work on the message on a national defence industrial strategy. Our defence industry is important to Norway, both for the economy and for jobs, but as important for our national security. This is Stortinget's deal. A joint committee states that defence depends not only on the industry for supplies of materials but also on maintaining competence in complex sensor and weapon systems. Ensuring security for countries and citizens is the foremost and most fundamental task for us elected citizens. Security comes in many forms, and society has many needs. We must provide security in the form of safe access to food and water. We need to ensure national competence in key areas of society, control of key infrastructure, and we need a stable energy supply. However, it is not possible to ensure security without adequate strength and strength of national defence. And without a highly competent national defence industry, we also do not have a standing national defence capability. The center party talks a lot about and works hard to ensure self-sufficiency. This is usually discussed in the context of food production. However, we must recognise that national production is also a central element of a credible and resilient defence strategy. The defence industry is also important for jobs and employment in many places in the country. Almost all states have jobs linked to the defence industry. In 2014, the Norwegian defence industry accounted for 5 000 additional companies in 137 companies. It is likely that updated numbers for 2015 will be even higher. Yesterday I was present in Måløy, where the Kongsberg Group and the Måløy company EasyForm have entered into an agreement before deliveries of composites and light structures to the defence industry. With it, 18 out of 19 counties now have jobs and activity related to this industry. The defence industry is developing a product that is proving very useful also for civil purposes. One example is Avinor, who recently signed a contract for the purchase of a remote control tower to 15 airports in North Norway. This is a spin-off of Norwegian defense technology. The sensor solution is the reuse of technology from both the missile program and the camera developed for the Protector weapons station at Kongsberg. The communication solution that binds it all comes from Indra Navia in Oslo, which also takes a lot of its technology from defence projects. This is how the defence industry and civil industry deal with innovation and development that benefits society as a whole. The centre party has its own comment which underlines the importance of using Article 123 of the EEA Agreement in a strategic and active way. As a general rule, Norwegian suppliers shall be preferred when developing or providing material. There are many examples of countries that support exemptions from the EEA Agreement when purchasing defence equipment. If foreign producers have a greater degree of protection in their national markets, they can benefit from this advantage in competing with our companies in the Norwegian market. The defense must be clear that you want to use national suppliers in any project where possible. The main rule should be that the defence refers to Article 123 of the EEA Agreement, but that in individual cases where national industry is unable to offer the product, an exemption may be granted. However, if one in the eight priority technological areas is well established by foreign providers, it should be justified. This, I think, must be an important part of Norway's defence industrial strategy in the future. It is a strength that there is largely a joint committee behind this big message. It gives scope, and it should mean that the implementation of the strategy will take place independently of government change that may come — and that should come from my side — in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e702	There is broad agreement on this message, and the government is very much in favour of what has been submitted. I have to say that I have very much agreed with many contributions from the pulpit on the importance of having a defence industry that is good and capable of competing, but also able to deliver what we are dedicated to. But there is one aspect that no one has addressed, which I would like to raise at the end of the debate, and that is the importance of having a high-tech business that also brings ring-effects to other types of business. The Kongsberg Group, for example, is an important engine for many other parts of Norwegian industry and Norwegian business. It is clear that very much of the technology environments that can be driven by top-tech demands in the defence sector will also have major ring-effects for other parts of Norwegian industry, so it is important to have such peaks in the defence industry. But it's obvious that they have ring-effects for Norwegian industry that are very important and that we can also create other types of jobs and other types of products and tackle other types of challenges that we face. We have had times when the Norwegian defence industry has not done so well, but we have seen the difficult changes we were going through after that, how to create nutrient clusters that are really motors for the conversion of Norway. I just want to conclude that this can also be part of the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e713	I will first take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good and thorough work on the message – and also good and insightful contributions during the debate. The strategy presented in the message describes the relationship between the defence sector and the defence industry, and has been a broad political consensus on the need for a defence industrial strategy for many years, as several representatives have been involved. This message is based on the same agreement and makes the necessary adaptations to the modified frame conditions that have been since the last message was received, St. Meld. No 38 for 2006-2007. That is in order for us to continue to be able to pursue offensive policies in this area. In particular, the EU Defence Directive has changed the framework conditions. The national defence industry is strongly linked to national security needs. The defence industry is part of the overall resources that society can use to ensure optimal national preparedness and response to crises and estimates. Therefore, a national defence industry with competence in critical capacity and technology areas can be crucial for our ability to safeguard national security in areas where spe­cific conditions require special competence. The defence industry, as the majority have pointed out, is a high-tech industry that has proven to be internationally competitive and contributes to significant value creation and jobs in large parts of the country. We're talking about approx. 5000 annual works. It's big and small businesses all over the country. These are attractive, challenging and forward-looking jobs. They are interesting for engineers, skilled workers, operators and apprentices, and there is a significant national value creation of approx. 5 B.C.E. kr annually. It's very internationally corrected and has 70 pst. of its income from non-resident customers. I note that an overall committee is committed to the main objective of the government with the message, namely to safeguard national security interests by maintaining and further developing an internationally competitive defence industry, in particular in the eight areas of technological competence referred to. The defence industry is an incredibly important partner for the defence. Many of the products developed by Norwegian defence companies have come into existence through close cooperation between industry, the FFI and the Defence. That cooperation, the so-called triangular cooperation, has helped us to make optimum use of our total resources and to ensure that the defence industry has products that are in several cases among the very best in the world. In an international context, this form of cooperation is a unique comparative advantage on which it is important to build further. Several representatives have also been involved in the thematic theme ‘multi-purpose technology’, which I believe is a very interesting and relevant topic to address. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, was concerned about how this technology is also a driver of civil development and civil cooperation. Here, as the message also does, the cooperation between FFI and NTNU is a very good example, especially in areas such as ICT and sensor and material technologies. We are also concerned by the government to further develop civil-military cooperation, and what we see is that there are many things developed civilly that we can now use in the defence industry – and vice versa: there are many things developed in the defence industry that are also used civilly. In the acquisition of defence equipment, the government considers that competition, non-discrimination and non-discrimination between suppliers best safeguard Norwegian security interests, defence economy and industrial interests. Then there will be situations where national safety concerns will need to make exceptions to this general rule. The government will work to ensure that the Norwegian defence industry has the same good framework conditions as the industry they are competing against. The European defence market has not evolved towards a more open market that was desired following the introduction of the EU Trade Directive in this area. The Ministry follows these developments closely, and no later than Friday two weeks ago, the Secretary of State in Brussels was to have discussions on this in the European Commission. Governments will facilitate the security of the defence industry with clear, predictable and long-term framework conditions. The arrangements for industrial cooperation and administrative support for marketing shall be continued. Market access is a direct prerequisite for maintaining a vital defence industry and therefore also indirectly linked to our security interests. We will work for enhanced international material cooperation within NATO and with close allies. We support the creation of a common European defence and security market. At the same time, the government wishes to stress that Norway’s security needs are well established and that they are the leaders of our defence acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e747	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a good contribution and also for a good cooperation. We have had a very good discussion and a hearing in Stortinget on these questions. I think this message balances very well that we should provide good development opportunities for the Norwegian defence industry. At the same time, we're going to buy the best. My question is about the consequences of the Swedish defence industry in so many contexts, unfortunately, in recent times it has not reached the competition. I don't want the Minister of Defence to give any orders to buy Swedish, but at the same time we see that there are a good deal of positive effects by being able to have equipment in common with Sweden and Finland. We can get joint workshops, and it can operate more rationally. How does the Minister of Defence assess that Swedish industry, in so many contexts, has unfortunately not achieved competition lately, and what consequences it has for our priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e758	From the Norwegian side, we want to choose at any time those suppliers who can offer the best product in the area in question at the best price, and where we also consider what you don't always think about when discussing the defence industry: the life perspective, the ability to support and the ability to maintain. What is important also when we are discussing this in a Nordic context, as I did with my Nordic colleagues at our ministerial meeting by the end of March, is that when we think about the possibility of cooperation between Nordic countries, both on acquisition and on maintenance – really throughout the lifetime of the material – it is crucial for us, who then have different alliances, that we can do the same in peace as we do in crisis and war. Otherwise, countries really need to establish and acquire two separate systems, one for cooperation in peace and one for use in the event of a crisis. That's one of the things we're discussing and considering very openly in NORDEFCO right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e765	In my article, I stress that using Article 123 of the EEA Agreement can be done in an active and strategic way. Of course, purchases of Norwegian defence equipment shall be made from the best supplier. It's about price, it's about quality, it's about delivery, it's about the solutions that you need. However, if this industry, which is important for Norway economically but of course also strategically and defence policy, is to develop even better in the future, it is important that Norwegian defence is a major buyer. It will also be a guarantee stamp and a quality stamp when our defence industry is to market itself in other countries, in addition to the benefits that can be derived from those products at national level. How does the Minister of Defence view the use of Article 123 of the EEA Agreement, and how can we use it more actively for the benefit of Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e774	Firstly, I would like to stress that we use a lot of resources – both from the Ministry and from the Defence Department – to help market Norwegian products. This is actually happening through a very large set of instruments, ranging from marketing support – which I so far had in mind in my post – to the fact that Norwegian defence acquires Norwegian defence technology, and therefore also uses it together with allies. It is also a marketing channel. I note that a unanimous committee, in addition to the Centre Party, suggests that within the eight areas of competence, Norwegian industry should be chosen if conditions so permit. It's a vision the government shares. Then we have to remember that Article 123 is an exception. We have been very concerned that we must seek to facilitate competition also in Norway, if our industry is to have fit in. It's a mutual relationship, where we want to give our industry benefits in the areas we can do, while at the same time ensuring that our industry also has good market access out there. As I was inside, they're picking up very large amounts of their income from the outside, and that's an important competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e786	It is said that the government is about to present its new long-term defence plan. Based on the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice, we have recorded that the security and defence debate is taking on a great many. In summary, the debate has focused on our sovereignty, freedom of action and security. In this perspective, there are many considerations to take, and one of many is what device we should have on our future defence industry, which this debate has focused on. The symbiosis between having a national defence industry and national security needs is two sides of the same coin. As stated in the Communication, ‘a national defence industry with competence in critical capacity and technology areas can therefore be crucial to our ability to safeguard national security’. I want to say, like everyone else who has spoken before me, that I am proud of our defence industry. We see a growth of high-tech defence companies that have become world leaders in their fields, thanks to the combination of innovation, knowledge and technology. For too many companies, deliveries to the F-35 project have resulted in fierce competition with other international suppliers. Congratulations to those companies! Three-way cooperation The defence, defence and defence industries and the Swedish Defence Research Institute are undoubtedly a crucial success factor that has contributed to this. It is also clear that this cooperation needs to be developed. Many have, before me, affected the spin-off effect from the defence industry to civilian goals. It is incredibly important to focus on this part of the innovation work. During the hearing of this communication, we received a clear message from the LO, the NHO and the companies to our politicians. They made it clear that it is necessary to impose requirements on both defence and industry in order to achieve the best possible cooperation in several areas in order to favour Norwegian suppliers as a general rule. At the same time, they were very clear that binding industrial agreements must be required when the defence acquires material from abroad. Such requirements cannot be misunderstood and the Committee has also been clear on this in its position. But there is no doubt that such demands can be challenging either. The defence market has traditionally been a closed market with limited competition. Despite expressed ambitions for multinational cooperation in this industry, the reality may be slightly different. Too many countries with their own defence industries have set up schemes that favour too much their own industry. The United States is perhaps the country that strongly protects its own industry by having a restrictive technology transfer regime, especially in the field of military high technology. In Europe, we have seen a development of the protection of our own defence industry, often justified in economically tough times and hence the protection of our own national jobs. Such choices may be understandable, but they do not promote effective development, and not least exploitation, of the competence of the European defence industry as a whole. Speaking of lack of cooperation, this heartache from a conference I attended under the auspices of the IPC can sum up what can be the consequences: it is striking that Member States are prepared to deploy their troops' shoulder-to-shoulder liabilities in crisis operations, but abilities not as much to cooperate in providing these troops with military equipment that adequately interacts with each other in carrying out an operation to prevent the loss of life. I think it was clear words for the money. However, despite the fact that there are many people who are aware that international cooperation needs to become increasingly necessary in order to realise complex high-tech defence capabilities. On that track half, I am sure that the Norwegian defence industry will be central. Our responsibility, along with research, is to be part of the industry's support apparatus. We have to play each other good. In other words, a little good idea becomes part of the future development strategy of the Norwegian defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e803	There is broad agreement in this Chamber on the importance of the defence industry and also that we have a capable and versatile defence industry. It's an industry that has some special features. The defence industry is dynamic, but it is also long-term. The development of weapon systems is fast but takes time and – not least – it is expensive. The market is limited. We also have to have a strict export control. Better than that, we're just going to sell weapons to those who aren't going to use them. All of this means that cooperation between defence and industry is important in a country like ours, and that industry must have stable framework conditions because it must have a long-term horizon. Then the strategies are important. There is full support for the priority of the eight technological areas of competence proposed by the government, but I would point out that the Committee has made a clarification in paragraph 1, Command, Control and Information, Decision Support and Fight Systems, where we have inserted ‘including radar systems’. I am a little surprised that it was not within what came from the government, for this clarification the committee has done earlier, in the last period, when the Minister of Defence was the head of the committee. So the next time a strategy comes from the government, I hope that area is included. There are eight areas that are important for our defence, but there are also eight areas where we have companies with great top skills. So I would just like to mention that in the context of the work on this message and, to some extent, on the export message, which we are going to discuss afterwards, new companies are also appearing that are working on products that cannot necessarily be characterised as military equipment, but which are important, among other things. for the security of our through-digital societies, such as encryption, control systems. It illustrates that the concept of ‘defence industry’ should not be interpreted too narrowly. There is a part of the edge zone here that can be called the security industry, which can be important in industrial development, and which can be important both for defence and for civil tasks where good control and security are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e812	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e815	Thank you to the Council of State for her articles and for raising high-tech. High technology is important, and new technologies in defence vacuums can have civil applications. The representative of Trine Skei Grande gave me the courage to take the word again. Councils of State, including the development of sensor types can be seen in relation to other applications. Then I would like to remind you that welfare technology is on the agenda around the whole country, in municipalities, in health care establishments. Here, there's an unlikely number of challenges to solve when it's just what's going on on sensors. I therefore hope that this is an area that can have greater interaction, so that one can jointly develop this kind of technology both militarily and civilly, because it is about the same thing – finding the uses that are important to more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e836	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e843	I would first like to thank the members of the Committee for a good work and cooperation on the export message of Norwegian defence equipment. Norway has one of the most stringent national arms export codes. This is the result of important policy choices. We have a moral responsibility to work actively to get the weapon into the wrong hands. A strict regulatory framework, with open and wide-ranging debate through annual news reports, provides people and elected representatives with transparency. It secures the legitimacy of the defence industry in Norway. At the same time as we have a strict code for the export of defence equipment, we must constantly be alert to the situation in the world around us, and be open to review our own legislation. It is therefore worthwhile for the Foreign and Defence Committee to go through carefully every year the country to which Norwegian defence equipment is sold, and to make any corrections in the legislation. Norway has an important tradition of contributing to international control and disarmament efforts. Examples of this include: when Norway made a great effort to establish an international ban on landmines and class weapons. The most effective way we can ensure defence trade in defence equipment is to participate in common international rules on the hall of arms and other defence equipment. It is therefore central for a Joint Committee to ask the Government to continue its work in the relevant international forums in order to achieve a common standard for consumer documentation, and to work towards its becoming a norm in NATO. The Committee also asks the Government to report back to the Stortning on the progress of this work in its own right, which I have suggested will be done. As I also said in a previous post today, the most fundamental task of a public authority is to ensure the security of the inhabitants of the country. Then we need both a national defence and a national defence industry. It is important that the defence industry has clear and long-term framework conditions, but also clear legislation ensuring defence exports. As Norway must import some weapons, our own defence industry must also be able to export its product. This is a broad political deal. This must also be the basis of the debate on the export of Norwegian defence equipment. The defence industry provides the basis for highly skilled jobs across large parts of our country. It was also a theme in the previous case and is no less relevant in this case. A large part of the defence industry's product is exported out of the country. The centre party is today co-sponsored on three proposals which may strengthen the control of exports of Norwegian defence equipment. Together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, we ask the Government to clarify the content of its Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreements, so that they can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation, so that they can get a stronger legal anchor and not only be reflected in their own guidelines. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The purpose of the agreements is inter alia: to prevent illicit arms trafficking and to prevent the diversion of weapons. Among others, the Red Cross has pointed out that this can help to promote regulatory control of exports in countries that do not necessarily have a similar level of responsibility as Norway. I think it's useful if the government makes a distinction of this possibility. The Central Party also proposes, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, that the government address the possibility of further developing today's system of end-user declarations for the export of strategic goods, e.g. by applying random checks on specified final user documentation after a period of time in some cases. In addition, together with the Christian People's Party, we ask the government to consider an extension of the information provided in the annual growth message, by stating in the list of accepted and refused applications for the export licence which is used for the determination of the various cases. Wise decisions are based on good information. If there are no key reasons not to enter a home, the government should consider informing them. In general, this is also a broad message. It is important for the long-term development of an important industry, but also important for Norway’s reputation as a manufacturer of defence equipment exporting to ethical standards we may be proud of. I take this into account the proposals to which the Senterpartiet is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e871	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e874	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for an excellent work, which at times has also been demanding. The rapporteur should be grateful for that. For the record, it is very regrettable that a temporary suspension, an undisclosed suspension, from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, was held by one of the major economic stakeholders in the matter: one of the manufacturers of defence equipment. I would like to refer to Section 31 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 7, which prohibits leaking from non-issued documents in the committees of the Storting. Then I will refer to my post on the previous case, on strategy for the defence industry. The total exports of defence equipment in 2014 amounted to 3,6 billion. kr. Of this, 2.9 was billion. kr military products. The export of A-materials, which are weapons, ammunition and materials with strategic capacity, was 2.3 billion. kr. The rest was so-called B-material. NATO, Sweden and Finland were the major beneficiaries: 94 pst. of A-material and 95 pst. of B-material. It is sales to our allies and trade in Nordic defence cooperation NORDECFO that account for the majority of Norway's exports of defence material. It doesn't always sound like this in the debate. Although exports to other countries represent a very small proportion, it is absolutely essential that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comply with the decision of the United Kingdom: not exports to countries in war, not to countries that violate human rights. The size limits and controls, but it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that will grant – and grant – the licences. Norway is also constantly working to ensure common international provisions for arms exports. I would like to mention Arms Trade Treaty – which was also discussed by the rapporteur – which was adopted by the UN on 2 April 2013 and signed on 3 June of the same year. I think it is right to point out that Norway was extremely active during the negotiations to ensure that this agreement was given a strong humanitarian device. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has chosen to enter the agreement as part of its own guidelines. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are asking the Government today whether the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement should be incorporated into law or regulation. This is probably getting a majority. I'm also glad that a unanimous uprising supports the work of getting a final statement inside NATO. It is a long-term and long-term work, but necessary and important. I would also like to refer to the proposal in the vote to proceed with the development of today's system of end-user declarations to non-allies during random checks. Finally, as I said earlier: a modern defence industry is an integral part of our defence and security policy with a major strategic importance for Norway. The defence industry is also among our leading innovators, with research and technology development among the leading in Norway and with ring-effects to a number of subcontracting companies. The industry creates significant values and has approx. 4 500 annual works, not least in District Norway. It should be added that we have a very open defence market. In fact, we're importing 70 pst. of our capabilities and capabilities. It is primarily about imports from Sweden, but of course also from our allies in NATO. This is precisely why it is necessary for our industry to have export markets, so that we can sell products in other countries in addition to what is supplied to the Norwegian defence. Then it is all the more important that we have a rigorous and ethically sound trade regime. We should work on the trade regime to get the best possible international, as the Norwegian governments and the Norwegian economy have done for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e895	I would first like to comment on the representative Nybakk, who took up the leakage from the committee work. From the right-hand side, we're going to end up completely with this comment. It is very unfortunate for committee work. Let me start the article by thanking the rapporteur for putting us through this matter in a tidy way. Let me state that arms and other military equipment are exported on the basis of very strict legislation and strict guidelines. Both legislation and enforcement are in line with Norway’s international obligations and with Storting’s assumptions. Exports of defence equipment are under strict control in Norway. The existing guidelines of Norway have been tightened up in recent years and are clearer than ever. The notification clearly shows that we: continues existing practices for the export of defence equipment from Norway, which are among the most stringent in the world, stressing the importance of the defence industry as an important and technology-driven sector in Norwegian industry supports the continuation of Norwegian commitment to transparency and accountability in the international regime for the export of defence equipment As explained in the previous debate — linked to the defence industrial strategy — the production and export of defence equipment accounts for a significant part of the value creation in Norway. Norway is also the world's leading player in some technology areas and is a significant contributor to the development of competence in the Norwegian industry in advanced technology. The defence industry has major positive ring-effects through research, innovation and knowledge transfer to other industries. The annual monitoring reports on exports of defence equipment contribute to increased transparency of exports of such materials. It allows us to have a good democratic debate both inside and outside the Stortinget. The human rights situation in several of Norway’s countries is exporting material, has been under discussion over the year — and for good reason. For this reason, the Right is pleased that the Norwegian authorities, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, follow the guidelines systematically and address the situation in the countries through diplomatic channels and the UN Human Rights Council. At the same time, it is important to note that several of the countries play key roles in the region, with which it is important for Norway to have dialogue. In the case of Saudi Arabia, as an example, Norway does not sell arms and ammunition to Saudi Arabia, but, as the notification shows, defence equipment, known as B-material, was exported in 2014 to Saudi Arabia for 3.7 million. NOK within vehicle components and some electronic equipment. In other words, we have restrictive practices in which countries can receive different military equipment from Norway and criteria for refusal. As you know, the principle that Norway does not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war, or to countries where there is civil war. A clarification came in 2009, when democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights should also be included in the assessment of the sale of weapons and ammunition. In addition to continuing the policies of the previous government in this area, the government has further strengthened the regulatory framework in 2014 and has also introduced the EU criteria. The Government continues with this notification the practice of exporting defence equipment to countries outside NATO. A documentation confirming the end-user is required to indicate where to install and use the material and to ensure that it cannot be resold without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities. According to these guidelines, the countries that are open to the export of weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-materials, are continuously assessed. Of course, it is difficult to deal with individual cases, but if the situation in a country to which we export changes so that the conditions for allowing the sale of weapons and ammunition are no longer present, the government will consider whether it should continue to be licensed for the future. I think we have a government that wants openness in exporting defence equipment. All parties in the Committee have valued the work done in the last year to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway. The government follows these principles and practices. It runs the policy that Stortinget has decided to take – with a strict and consistent regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e931	Let me also thank the case rapporteur for the neat work he has done on this matter. Initially, I would like to mention that it is a bit strange that some of these issues are discussed in this communication, i.e. the export message, and were not included in the Industry Communication, i.e. the Defence Industry Strategy Communication, which was the previous case. It is the one who is discussing the strategy in the future, which refers to exports for 2014. However, when it is said that the politicians and environments that are fighting to introduce an increasingly stringent use of the end-user statement for the export of Norwegian defence equipment are actually fighting for the closure of the Norwegian defence industry, and that is quite legitimate. So a little bit of factual information: the export of defence equipment between allies is anchored in agreements and long-term practices. It is that our allies themselves decide how to manage and dispose of material acquired from the Norwegian industry. If we want to maintain a high-tech and competitive defence industry, it is a practice that will have to be continued. None of our allies would agree to have to receive the stamp of approval from the Norwegian authorities to use the material in military missions. It really goes without saying that when you have bought and paid defence equipment from a supplier, this material belongs to the state that bought the material. I think everyone really understands that. If we set conditions for how our allies are going to use the material, it's clear that our allies are not interested in buying from us, and then it's a closure of the defense industry. You can't believe you can do both at once here, even if you shouldn't be very happy in the defense industry. A prerequisite for export opportunities is that the supplier’s national authorities have predictability and a regime for export control so that the buyer is confident that, over the lifetime of the material, he will be able to have the necessary supplementation in the supply of spare parts and maintenance services. In a system, it's 20-30 years' lifetime, that means that you can't have a rule that says that now I want to change the export code, I want to get a retail statement that guarantees that you don't use it. That won't be possible. Then we have no credibility, because it's something called the maintenance of systems during the lifetime of a system, and it's something called caring for the interests to which you have sold material, and then you have to have the upgrade of this system. It is obvious that the supplier of such a system must provide such a guarantee, otherwise it will not be exported. It's quite simple logic, and anyone who runs a business will understand that it has to be that way. But you must not have a defence industry – there is no obligation to have it. Projects create interdependence between nations. Of course, a prerequisite for a country to expose itself to this is delivery security. The buyer country must be absolutely sure that a supplier delivers critical components and subsystems throughout the lifetime of the defence system. In most cases, final assembly and completion of the final product takes place in one nation. That is, in cooperation, it takes place in one nation. There is, of course, the country’s export legislation that will apply to its use, a multinational product – once again a quite logical conclusion – that has been developed through defence-related industrial cooperation, which it is difficult for us to review if we want to maintain a defence industry. Usually there is only one supplier of advanced single-component systems. This means that no deliveries of the final product can take place without all the participating nations’ industries delivering their part deliveries as foreseen – once again a course of course. When everyone cooperates, there will be critical components that each country produces into a system, and then one country can't say that now I don't want to be involved in this anymore. Then it won't be possible to operate the system. Once again, we must have credibility when the defence industry delivers. We get that by guaranteeing the entire system's lifetime – a quite logical conclusion. I jump back and forth a little, and I think I'll go all the way to the end and talk about the end-user statement. I have to say that it amazes me a little bit that the Workers' Party too is now joining in a proposal in which they are considering transferring national authority to Arms Trade Treaty, that they want to transfer national authority to a UN body in terms of end-user declarations. If you read the message, it's clear that ATT, as it's called, is run by South Africa, and then it's Nigeria that's the main executive of this Arms Trade Treaty. This is going around, but it is these countries to which the Workers' Party considers transferring national authority. I don't want to say exactly that they're champions of human rights. There may be other countries, e.g. Norway, which is more a guarantor of human rights than exactly South Africa and Nigeria. But the belief in the UN is clearly completely out of bounds. I actually think that national control is much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e952	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work and for the cooperation on this message. The annual message shows that the total export of Norwegian defence equipment socks with 15 pst. in 2014 compared to 2013. The main beneficiaries are the member countries of NATO and Sweden and Finland. The export to authoritarian regime is a small part of the total export of defence equipment. It's good to know. But one aspect gives particular cause for concern: In 2014, A or B material was exported to several of the countries that have participated in the war in Yemen since 2015. Reports may indicate serious violations of the right of war in this armed conflict. The Christian People's Party and a majority in the Committee expect the Ministry to go through the experience of the use of checklists introduced to prevent defence material being used for internal repression or human rights violations. We want a very thorough review of exports to states that have been parties to the Yemen conflict, not least Saudi Arabia. If experience so warrants, the guidelines, including checklists, must be streamlined and the practice tailored. A number of members of the Committee stress that we must avoid using strategic goods exported from Norway for internal repression, human rights violations or in a way that violates the rights of the people of war. A majority of people now want to see the next Stortingen message done more about the consequences of the war in Yemen for Norwegian exports to the countries involved. It now seems even more necessary. A United Nations panel reported to the Security Council in January that they had found extensive and systematic violations of humanitarian law both from the Saudi Arabia coalition and from their opponents in the Yemen conflict. Following the submission of the opinion, it is also covered in the media by a gallery of ammunition for Emilata that it continued in 2015 and in January of this year before it was stopped by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Such exports may be contrary both to the new arms trade agreement and to Norwegian guidelines. I ask the Foreign Minister to clarify this question in Stortinget before the Stortinget will now consider the proposal that it will vote on today. The International Arms Trade Treaty entered into force in 2014. Content of Article 26 of the Convention was included in the evaluation criteria of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ guidelines, but not in law or regulation. In the committee setting, the majority of the ministry asks whether the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation, so that it gets a stronger legal anchor and not only is reflected in its own guidelines. Such a legal anchoring provides Norway with a model for robust compliance with the arms trade agreement. We can also recommend it to other countries, which may not have such a responsible office, and where the importance of lawmaking is thereby increased. The Christian People's Party is therefore involved in proposing that the Stortinget ask the government to clarify whether the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation. Together with the Labour Party and the Central Party, we are also tabling proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of further developing today’s retail declaration system for exports of strategic goods be explored by the government, for example by allowing random checks to be carried out on specific end-user documentation after a period of time.’ Our aim of these two proposals is to improve the regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment. By building multiple alliances in recent years, we achieve more improvements, and we want to continue by creating multiple numbers to ensure that improvements are achieved in practice. There are several good suggestions that are made in the setting. Some of them have different formulations, but common goals. In working with this setting, the Christian People's Party has put the emphasis on searching for multiple solutions that will enable breakthroughs in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e976	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e979	I thought they were already recorded. But it says to raise proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e984	Then the representative, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e988	I also think it is important for the protocol to sign out what Marit Nybakk pointed out at the beginning of his post. I always have as my starting point that people should not be hurt, but in that case this is an amateurry that you have rarely seen, from a committee that should have prepared parliamentarians as members. This case is actually an alert to a disaster. We're driven from skirmish to skirmish, and it's disclosure after disclosure that drives the policy in this area. I have to say that I'm a little overly stated. Time and again we see that there are revelations about individual cases that become drivers of policy development. I want to drag the lines back to when we discussed the state pension fund abroad last year, and some of us actually thought that one should withdraw from tax havens – whereupon it was downcast and bramed in this room. Then there are some revelations of what happens when you act in a tax haven, and then all of a sudden the majority in the hall is different. Similarly, arms export policy is being pursued. Time and again, we see revelations related to Norwegian weapons on the way, Norwegian weapons used in war situations, Norwegian weapons that may in some cases be wrong. The criminal structures we see around the world – which smuggle people one day, weapons another day and drugs one third day – are very tightly tied together, where weapons, people and drugs are three main ingredients. Controlling arms flows, the fact that countries actually have control of their arms flows, and the fact that we do not export to countries other than those that control their arms flows, is perhaps one of the keys to getting on in this field – for weapons should not be out of hand. I think several times before, I have also used examples of Norway, for example. exported so-called B-material — binocular visions, components for binoculars — to Libya just a short time before we sent our fighter planes over the same reason that was exposed to the same binoculars on the weapons as shot at Norwegian soldiers. We are in a world of international change, we have to make sure that Norwegian weapons are not being diverted and are not being targeted at Norwegian soldiers who are doing their job from this room. We must ensure that we have control of the weapons flows for which we are responsible. The best way to do it is through transparency, through the end-user statement and by ensuring that we trade with countries that have the same principles as us. We have to stop letting this be a policy field where we are driven from opportunity to opportunity, driven by scandals. There is hardly any policy field that has been so marked by just what arms exports are. Then I hear the basic tone of some of the parties here. I can admit that I am particularly disappointed with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, which I thought we were going to receive support from to take the right steps related to transparency, the end-user statement and the control with which countries you are actually exporting. Here's a policy field where we should now be forward-looking, making rules that are going to last over time, making rules that also stand through the scandals that we just see coming against us. With that I would like to address the suggestions from the Left and SV. SV should be allowed to say what they are behind, but I would like to take up those who are behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1005	Then Trine Skei Grande brought up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1008	We support the proposals we have with the Left – we do. Norwegian arms export legislation is strict and in very many ways good. There has also been much progress in this field over the last few years. It should also be lacking, because the weapons of diversion for use in war and conflict are a massive global problem, and it is an important part of a consistent policy for a peace nation such as Norway to have a strict code of arms exports. However, despite progress, there are also major gaps that need to be corrected. If one is going to go through the most important points, I'm going to say that paragraph 1 is about ending the export of all types of defence material to countries that grossly violate human rights. Human rights are now a criterion in assessments. But when we talk about the countries that are breaking them most seriously – countries where freedom of speech does not exist, where oppression of their own population is quite pervasive – then there is no reason for us to export to those countries, simply because the risk of their armaments and defence equipment becoming part of the repression is great. Then we pray for nothing but to preserve regimes and human rights violations that in the other parts of our foreign policy we are trying to fight against. This is actually about a few countries today, and it is about very small amounts, so this can be done without consequences for the Norwegian defence industry. It's also about openness and insight. The message we get to the Storting every year is an important part of it. But we have too little knowledge of the individual sales, of the criteria underlying refusals and approvals, and of the reasons given in the individual case. There are now several proposals, including: No 5 and 6 from the SV and the Left, but also suggestions from the other party, which will help improve it, so that we get more insight into how the legislation is used. So this is point 3, that's the end-user statement. The end-user declaration system is important and has worked roughly. But there are also signs – not least in a control case that has now been dealt with in the control committee – that show the challenges and holes in that system. So I'm of the opinion that the proposals that are now here, which in different ways will help to develop it – whether it's by sampling or in other ways – will be important. It is also important now to move one step further towards the NATO countries. Both the previous and the current government have over time had as a policy that we should work towards agreement on the use of the consumer declaration in NATO, without any significant progress being made in it. Now I believe what can make progress is that some countries are going ahead, as SV and Left propose in this case. But the most fundamental thing is that we practice the policy we actually have. And a policy Norway has had over time and through varying governments is that we do not export defence material to countries that are part of a war or a armed conflict. That's a pretty familiar example of that. Now there's going to be a brutal war in Yemen. Yemen follows both the UN and other international groupings, such as the International Crisis Group, one of the worst humanitarian disasters we are facing. Saudi Arabia and several other golfing states are part of the armed conflict. And as it was said before here, when one revealed the sale to Emilata, luckily it was stopped. The UN has detected gross violations of humanitarian law. We do not know whether Norwegian defence material today is part of the humanitarian conflict. The way to follow up our own established policy is that today the Storting adopts the proposal SV has put forward: ‘The Government asks the Government to close immediately all exports of A and B material to all States participating in the Saudi-Arab-led coalition participating in the war in Yemen.’ Finally, I would just like to say that I also support Mr Nybakk's criticism of the leaks from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I totally agree with that. But one must also be able to ask, in the light of the votes here, whether the influence that has been on the Labour Party has actually had an effect. So I could imagine getting the foundation from the representative Nybakk for why the Labour Party does not support the very proposals to which it is referred – the proposals to limit the hall to Saudi Arabia and other golfing countries that violate human rights, and to introduce the ATT Code, which are clearly the themes where the Labour Party has been subjected to pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1030	The President then perceives that the representative has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1033	I might be inspired by the crossword list of the representative Solhjell who is left here, but I'm going to put it aside! Norway has one of the world’s most stringent regimes in controlling exports of defence equipment. We can do this at the same time as Norway has a competent and competitive industry. It's still going to be more than 90 pst. of our exports of defence equipment goes to NATO allies, as well as Sweden and Finland. At the same time, the market is changing, and the value of exports varies from year to year, with several representatives being in – and in 2014 exports decreased by 15 pst. An effective export control is an integral part of Norwegian security policy. For Norway, it is important to play an active role in the international export control regimes, which largely set the framework for our national control. This is an important effort to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and cooperation on control of conventional weapons and military equipment. Last year, when Norway led the missile control regime, we worked intently to strengthen dialogue with countries outside cooperation in order to ensure compliance with high international control standards. Responsible national export control contributes to a safer world. The situation that arose in 2015, in which several representatives have been involved, when a Saudi coalition started military operations in Yemen following an invitation from its legitimate authorities, has been assessed against the 1959 Stortinget Decision. Norway's self-imposed restrictions through the 1959 Decision mean that we do not sell arms and ammunition to the parties during a civil war. The practice has been that intervening countries are not subject to the 1959 Decision. This is the current situation, and the intervention is known to be with the consent of the national authorities. We are serious about the situation in Yemen and the allegations of violations of humanitarian law. Applications for the export of Norwegian defence material to the Saudi-led coalition are subject to thorough assessments. On this basis, I chose to hold back further executions of ammunition that could be applied at a risk of violation of humanitarian law in Yemen. Transparency and dialogue with the Storting are important and contribute to creating the necessary legitimacy for export control. Norway has, as has been said, very strict and self-imposed restrictions through the 1959 Decision of the United Kingdom and the declaration as a unanimous increase gathered in 1997. We've tightened up the control of out-of-court defence equipment. We have put all the assessment criteria together in a consolidated list. This makes our legislation more comprehensive and stricter than in other countries. An internationally competitive Norwegian defence industry, including several representatives, including the rapporteur, is important for our ability to safeguard national security interests. Norway also has an increasing number of civil technology environments and companies benefiting from a competitive defence industry. The defence industry alone employs more than 5000 people. The potential for developing new technologies and creating new industrial jobs is significant. Technology development requires knowledge and investment over time. The Government therefore attaches great importance to facilitating the most stable, long-term and clear frameworks for exportability of its products and participation in international development programmes, both established and emerging establishments. This is absolutely necessary in order for jobs and value creation to continue to evolve for the benefit of the whole of Norway. Therefore, we must be predictable with industry – have a strict regime, but practice predictability based on clear criteria. We must ensure that, in the future, we will also succeed in having a competent and competitive defence industry within the framework of predictable and restrictive legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1066	This is a message that reviews how the government has handled this legislation and how weapons have been sold to other countries in the previous year. At the same time, Stortinget adds some comments to this message that have an impact on how the government assesses the various issues. We have a note in the position that everyone is in, except for the Right Party and the Advance Party, which is about the war in Yemen, where the majority say that it is necessary to get a more detailed account of the war in Yemen and how it affects Norwegian exports to the countries involved. Meanwhile, the Foreign Minister has said that he is stopping the sale of ammunition to the Emirates. Will the Foreign Minister say anything more about that assessment, and whether it was influenced by the Storting's view on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1075	I have listened to the debate that has taken place, and I also hear that there are concerns about exports to the intervening parties in Yemen. When we have addressed such questions in 2015, there has been a concrete assessment of each licence. This has been important, because there is reason to stress the assessments that have been around, for example: humanitarian law and its enforcement in Yemen. We came to the conclusion now in the New Year that the sale of ammunition to the Emirates was no longer natural to open up, so there is a temporary stop in this, an opening that was given in 2010 to export A-material to the Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1082	There has been a lot of discussion about the sale of B-material to Saudi Arabia, and Sweden stopped recently since the export of Swedish defence equipment to Saudi Arabia, but they still sell some components. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess Norwegian export policy to Saudi Arabia, compared to the Swedish one?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1089	Meg acquaintance Sweden has also had an opening for the export of A-material to Saudi Arabia, which we have not had. We have guidelines that this is B material, that is. not ammunition, not weapons, but binoculars, there may be communication equipment, etc. This government has not changed any of the country categories open to A and B material compared to the previous government. In the case of the Gulf, the changes made in the last few years have been opened to Qatar, the Emirates and Oman in the period 2009-2011. I don't see any reason, in the situation that's now, to change the categorisation of Saudi Arabia, but of course it's not relevant to open up to A material.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1096	Back to the question of Yemen. In order to avoid any breach of legislation, could it be natural to freeze all exports of A- and B-materials to those countries involved? At the same time, this is a matter that should have a different and more thorough preparation than what is now taking place on a loose proposal such as SV, among other things. which requires voting today. I wonder if the Foreign Minister can assure us that he will not allow exports of cork A or B material to those countries involved if there is the slightest risk that this equipment might break with the arms trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1104	As I concluded in the previous reply to the replican Huitfeldt, we don't export A-material to Saudi Arabia – it's B-material. We have no concrete plans to change that categorisation of Saudi Arabia. Now it's open to A and B materials for the Emirates, to Qatar, to Kuwait and Oman, as far as I know. What has been important to us in the last year is to follow developments in Yemen very closely, and it was also done, as I stated, in each individual licence assessment during 2015. As well as in the past, these assessments are now also being made continuously in 2016, but I have concluded that as far as the sale of ammunition is concerned, we have not now opened it to the Emirates in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1111	It seems to me that the Foreign Minister understands that we cannot force weapons into the kind of critical situations that we see now, for example. in Yemen. But then it is interesting to ask if he also shares Tybring-Gjedde's view that anyone who is in favour of a type of regulation of arms trade is against Norway having a weapons industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1116	I understand that there is a broad consensus on the 1959 decision in the Stortinget, namely that Norway does not export arms and material and defence materials to war parties. So it's been a practice not to include interveners in this. In that case, it would have quite a big impact on many of the conflicts you have seen, where, for example. there is a mandate from the Security Council. The legislation we have in Norway, which is among the most stringent in the world – I think we are also one of the first of the allies to have now suspended, for example. exports of ammunition to the Emirates — shows that the government is following the strict line in terms of licences and thorough assessments for which there has been tradition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1123	One of the questions that have been discussed a lot in the work on the message is whether Norwegian weapons may have been used in the war in Yemen. I hear the answer from the Council of State that he thinks there is no evidence that it has happened, and Frode Andersen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on 15 January in New Time that the department has no information that military equipment has been used. Many in this Chamber will be in doubt about how one is going to vote today when it comes to the SV proposal, and I believe the Foreign Minister's answer is now being given, will be decisive for many. Is it possible to get a slightly more binding response from the Council of State to consider tightening up further on the terms of arms exports to the implicated countries in the Yemen conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1130	I thank you for the question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already tightened up by the fact that we are now, I am aware, one of the first NATO countries to suspend the export of ammunition to the Emirates. Each licence application and export licence application dealt with in 2015 in countries which are intervening parties to the Yemen conflict has been carefully assessed – it has been assessed against the situation at the time, the knowledge we had at the time, and also assessed against what is our own legislation, what is the international law, and what is also the UN legislation and the ATT legislation. We'll review this continuously, but it's of course a signal that we've now suspended the export of ammunition to the Emirates. We don't have any arms exports to Saudi Arabia now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1135	It didn't have any noticeable effect to put these notes on the speaker's chair, so I just want to start taking them down again, as I did before. I would like to repeat the very precise questions that the Council of State did not answer: Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs assure us that there will be no exported defence equipment that there is any risk of being used for violations of humanitarian law in Yemen? That question I feel it is crucial to get an answer to. So I would like to add that I would have liked to see the Foreign Minister clarify: is there currently going to be the hall of relatively A-material and B-material to any of the countries that participated in the Saudi Arabia leadership coalition in Yemen? Can we confirm or cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1144	I had hoped that the spirit in my responses to the former replicants would also meet many of the wishes of the representative Solhjell. The reason why I now have to look at a number of licence applications for the Emirates, potentially Qatar and Oman, is that the government of which Solhjell was a member, opened up the possibility of selling ammunition and weapons to these countries in 2009, 2010 and 2011. We have, as I have said, a very strict interpretation of this legislation. Every application we have received in 2015 has been evaluated against the situation in Yemen. They have been assessed against the international commitments and have been assessed against the ATT. With the UN report that came, we drew the conclusion in 2016 that we are now suspending the opening given in 2010 to sell arms The Secretary of State has later clarified that this only applies to ammunition that can be used with a risk of violation of humanitarian law in Yemen, as he also said in his main post. and ammunition of the Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1154	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1159	Today’s debate is important for several reasons, and it has only confirmed that Norway has one of the world’s most stringent control regimes for exports of defence equipment. At the same time, it is important to involve interested parties in such debates. It only helps to strengthen democracy. Not least, it helps to ensure transparency and reprobability of how Norway practices exports of defence equipment. It is also reflected in the configuration of the Committee. There are divided opinions about many, but having different opinions about this is important in a social debate that we are all going to take seriously. And we do. The cancellation message we're discussing today is just showing it. Norway is committed to extensive international cooperation on export controls and non-proliferation between countries. Tracking and marking is a topic that we should all be concerned about, and not just to find weapons with technical faults, as the arms industry pointed out in its consultation response. For my own part, I am very concerned that tracking can also help to find out where the weapons come from when they are used in war or traded in an illegal market. It is extra bad that a very large proportion of the money it is traded for in connection with the smuggling of people in distress over the Mediterranean or on land is very likely to be used for arms procurement by extremist groups such as ISIL, Boko Haram and other similar terrorist groups. The paradox is that those who flee these terrorist organisations are indirectly involved and contribute to the financing of the terror to which they themselves are exposed. So cynical has become the world. Nor can there be any doubt that there is a huge illegal arms market that provides the bluff of international laws and regulations. The question is: How in the world can ISIL and other terrorist organisations manage to acquire such a great military force without the world community reacting or being able to prevent this kind of arms sale – that it takes place? This obscenity must be brought to life. I am very pleased that Norway has worked to include labelling and tracing provisions in the UN arms trade agreement. Unfortunately, Norway did not make it well enough, but we must not give up. I very much agree with the case rapporteur, Liv Signe Navarsete, who said that the government must be a clear voice in the UN and other international forums to prevent this from developing. The joint proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party today is a good step on this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1172	This debate is a little strange. One is occupied by the three million dollars for which one might sell to Saudi Arabia, or that one might have some B-material that would go to warring parties in Yemen. That's bad if that's the case. But I can guarantee that we will export defence equipment, A-material, to countries that violate human rights. It's guaranteed, because we produce components like, for example, is included in F-35 on the day it becomes operational. We produce the engine for AMRAAM missiles, we produce the engine for Exocet missiles. This is something we do as part of international cooperation, and it's the main producer's responsibility if they want to export. We know that the United States is exporting to Saudi Arabia in buckets and buckets. We can disagree with that and feel terrible. But you have to shut down the Norwegian defence industry if you want to be consistent and maintain human rights the way we want to. So this is to the representative of Solhjell and the representative of Skei Grande: it's not possible to stop it if we're going to have a defence industry. We produce advanced components that are part of larger systems, such as: F-35, AMRAAM or Exocet. The AMRAAM missile is based on NASAMS. The technology has been developed for NASAMS, part of the AMRAAM missile. That's why we got the contract on engines. We cannot believe that the Americans should say no, that they do not sell AMRAAM to countries that we decide. I can't. You might say no, but then you have to shut down the defense industry. That's a perfectly legitimate position to have. But you can't pretend it's the three million to Saudi Arabia all this is about, because we don't have control of the export code in the next instance when we produce a larger system. Then it is the country that has the final composition of this weapon system, which has the main technology, and to which we are allowed to deliver, that will determine the export code. The US has a more liberal export code and has more friends than we have – friends that we may not want to have, but that is the consequence of having an advanced defence industry. Is this so hard to understand? You can't sit and think that it's the three million Saudi Arabia that's crucial. It is components, A-material, which are part of large systems such as: France, the United Kingdom and the United States sell to countries to which we do not want to sell weapons or components. That's what the facts are. If you don't want to, you don't have an advanced defence industry. That's the consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1183	There have been particularly important issues that have been raised here today, and in the light of the debate and the questions I asked the Council of State, and the answers I have received, I will only say that the Christian People's Party is today going to support proposal No. 7, from Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1189	First, a few words about Yemen and the extreme humanitarian situation there and about the armed conflict. I am not in doubt that the Foreign Minister takes it seriously and carefully assesses the applications, but I also find it difficult to understand that a precautionary policy would not have been better, that one made a freeze with regard to the export of all types of defence equipment to the relatively few countries involved, and where the consequences for the Norwegian defence industry would have been very small, since they are small amounts. There was something similar that was done in the Arab Spring to several of the countries – Egypt and Bahrain, at least, if I don't think wrong – where there was just an instability, a ambiguity, which caused a suspended weaponsale and the sale of other defence material. It is possible that we should have interpreted the'spirit' in what the Foreign Minister said, otherwise, but I would have thought that it was a great advantage if there were concrete answers in place, that an actual initiative will take place to ensure that Norway did not indirectly participate in violations of humanitarian law there. Then I could also think of turning a little bit wider to the particular Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this matter. There are a number of proposals from the SV and the Left that I think it is in common that there are well-known political proposals that could be important steps forward, but with very small negative consequences for the Norwegian defence industry. This is because, in reality, we have a very good code in Norway for the export of defence equipment, so no one is calling for gigantic changes, but for some minor improvements, which can be important. And it was gratifying that the right-wing representative, Aarhus Byrknes, now makes it clear that the Christian People's Party will vote for proposal No. 7, which is the proposal to stop the hall of material, whether it's A material or B material, to land that grossly violates human rights. I'd like to challenge the Labour Party and the Center Party to say why they're not on such a proposal, which could have given it multiple numbers. The same applies, in my view, to some degree of openness, in particular to the fact that, in individual cases, there is a reason why approval or refusal is given, and that one expresses the underlying criterion. It will give us more public knowledge of how to practice the legislation today, and it could have been important. And the last thing: the ATT agreement, the Arms Trade Treaty, an agreement that is widely agreed in Norway and in the Committee, is important, but getting it into Norwegian law and regulation could strengthen it. I think we have the knowledge base for today that it's right to do it, and I could think of challenging the parties on why we can't do it, and getting to that multiple -- relatively small changes, which could still be important steps forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1202	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1205	This is going to be a kind of line to Board Vegar Solhell, which I hope he will answer. I repeat: Norway — the Kongsberg Group and Nammo — produce A-materials, components, which are part of advanced defence systems produced in the United Kingdom, France and the United States. These countries export to countries that violate human rights – fundamental human rights, as it is called. Will the representative Solhell also stop the sale of these components to the American manufacturers, or how will he possibly stop the Americans from selling, for example, weapons and advanced systems to Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1212	Just a few comments to the representative, Bård Vegar Solhjell. As regards Arms Trade Treaty, to which we joined in 2014, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have pointed out in the vote that we will ask the government to determine whether Articles 6 and 7 of the Arms Trade Treaty should be incorporated into Norwegian law. I have also understood that this proposal is being adopted today. Then we expect the Foreign Minister to investigate this matter and come back to Stortinget, either in connection with the next export notification or in another appropriate way. I assume that it will be decided that we agree on that. As regards proposal No: 7, from the Labour Party, we're very concerned that it's the Stortinge that gives rules: we make decisions about how it should be. It is the Stortinget who made the 1959 decision that we should not export armaments to countries in war or in civil war. It was also the Stortinget that, in 1979, stressed that we should not, in addition, export to countries that violate fundamental human rights. We want as much as we can encourage the Foreign Minister to look carefully at the licenses that are being granted today. It also applies to the B-material of Saudi Arabia. It's the foreign minister's responsibility to do that, it's not something that we from the Storting should go into as individual matters. Let me add that I am very concerned that defence material from the Norwegian arms industry is not being used in the war in Yemen. I would like to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs as much as I can to contribute to that not happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1225	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1228	A brief response to the representative Tybring-Gjedde: I am very aware that the development of the arms and defence industry is taking place through large conglomerates where a user uses a number of subcontractors from different countries. It is also true that the majority of Norwegian exports go to other NATO countries that have a large defence industry, as the developer, and Norway is part of it. And we are fans of the fact that Norway should be able to participate, but we in SV also have in our program – and have a long time to work for – that a producer declaration should be introduced in relation to NATO countries. There would certainly be a significant change in the room of opportunity today. But today we've drawn up a number of other proposals together with the Left, which don't have far-reaching consequences, and that was the ones I brought up in my post. I think there are proposals that in a completely different way will not limit the scope of the defence industry, but at the same time mean a real improvement in Norwegian legislation, which I have challenged several parties to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1235	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate, which has been informative about the idea, and which has deepened some important issues that the Committee has been busy working on the message. There are serious issues, there are issues that have consequences for many, and that is important, not least the most discussed issue today, how we deal with us, and how restrictive we are when it comes to exporting arms to countries that are at war and conflict. The central part of the game will depend on what we have done in the configuration. We want the government to have a tight policy in this area, and it hasn't come up with anything, corks today or before, that can be certain that the government isn't paying attention to the pitfall that lies here, and that one has a awake look and a strict control over weapons, not least to the conflict in Yemen. I think that with the debate we have had here today, with the setting that is set here, and that is going up for redundancy later today, the government has really got a go from the Storting to be extra careful and extra careful in this area. Then we have asked the government to cancel Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT agreement if they can be phased into Norwegian law or regulation. It will be an important step when it comes to Stortinget, and then it will have an opportunity to come back to it and make a decision if the majority of the Stortinget wants it. Anyway, I hope it gets multiples. and that there will be a matter on it after a while. So thank you for a good debate that points forward, and that points straight forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1248	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1262	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to four rows of replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1271	We are experiencing a world of change in security policy. New unconventional threats characterize the world, it characterizes the news picture and our everyday lives. The threat posed by violent extremism, terrorism, organised crime, by repatriated foreign fighters, piracy and digital threats and attacks has increasingly had an impact on international stability and development. Here at home, the threats can threaten our way of life, our values and our liberal society. It's just how we meet this, this big message is about. We see an increasingly complex and unpredictable security policy situation, where our security is more directly affected by developments in countries other than before. In the context of a fast-moving technology that has a global impact field, it is necessary to ask the question: are we well prepared? But first let me thank the Committee for a good cooperation and a great deal of agreement on the main elements of this Communication. It is also gratifying that a large majority of the Committee supports the 40 concrete follow-up actions described in the Communication. It is a good guarantee of a sustainable common approach in the future to the threat posed by the EEAG. This is a message that addresses global challenges. I still want to start in Norway. Norway is directly affected by threats to state apparatus, society, business and citizens. We just have to go back to July 22, 2011, the blackest day in recent Norwegian history, to see how brutal and unexpected terror can happen. Both before and after July 22nd, we have seen attacks in many European cities. Today there are reports of new threats in Stockholm. Of the global threats, terrorism is the one that attracts the greatest attention and fear in the population. Much of the emergence of terrorists comes from vulnerable countries and conflict countries. Examples of this are the emergence of ISIL in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Al Shabaab in Somalia and Boko Haram in Nigeria. Extremist groups are based on local and national conflicts, but now operate to a large extent across national borders and contribute to regional instability and global fear. The recruitment of European citizens by terrorist groups is an example of the increasing impact of our security on unconventional threats and non-governmental actors, such as terrorist groups and other criminal networks. Conducting policies that contribute to stability and prevent radicalisation is more important than ever. Through the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre, Norway has strengthened its ability to coordinate and share information related to cross-sectoral and cross-border security challenges. It is positive that the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre is further developed and will ensure an even better exchange of information between the Intelligence Service and the PST. National anti-radicalisation work has been well done, and Norway has reaped a lot of praise for this work. That is why I am pleased that the communication addresses this issue and that concrete action is being launched in this area. Cooperation through organisations such as the UN, NATO and AU is central. The suspension supports the government’s decision to strengthen the ability of the countries and relevant organisations concerned to prevent, address and address global security challenges. A Joint Committee has highlighted in particular the importance of knowledge of persons who may pose a safety risk. The Committee expects the government to look at measures to ensure the possibility of exchanging information on such individuals. An action that should be assessed is a common register of personal data and biometrics of threat actors. In that case, all establishments in different contexts may control the identification of individuals suspected of, or demonstrablely involved in, organised crime, terrorist activity or piracy. Conflicts and lawlessness are driving people on the run, and the last year’s refugee crisis has illustrated this. This has affected the whole of Europe, a Europe that has had problems accepting and absorbing the refugee situation. We must therefore fight the backers, the traffickers who profit from illegal migration. Development and security are two sides of the same coin. It can contribute to the strengthening of the security and justice sector and to the prevention of violent extremism, measures against xenophobic activities and the financing of extremist groups. The right is in favour of the establishment of a national expert group to analyse how organised crime affects countries where Norway has foreign and development policy interests. Threats in the digital space have been identified as one of the most serious threats we face. Cyberattacks, together with terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear and nuclear material, are now one of the most serious asymmetric threats facing NATO and the Member States. It may affect Norwegian military and civil infrastructure, energy supplies, telecommunications networks and other parts of business. Organized criminals and so-called mobile criminals have for a number of years represented a significant threat to business and society as a whole. They operate in hidden and often inaccessible networks. One of the main measures of the Communication is the establishment of an international cyber strategy for Norway. It will be important in the future to contribute to increased knowledge of cyberterrestrials, information warfare and, above all, hybrid warfare. A Joint Committee also supports the work of increasing the recruitment of Norwegian experts to relevant international organisations working on these and other safety challenges. Piracy is an increasing problem for free world trade and Norway as a major shipping nation. Norway participated with the frigate Fridtjof Nansen against Somali pirates in the Gulf of Aden and succeeded. Now West Africa and South-East Asia are plagued by piracy and organized crime, which often occurs by hijacking, armed robbery and theft of cargo. Pirates are increasingly aggressive and impose on mariners a risk and burden that is not accepted elsewhere in society. Norway is one of the leading maritime nations in the world, and in this area we should therefore continue to take responsibility and be at the forefront. There is probably a need for a more detailed analysis in order to develop a full strategy in close cooperation with our allies in order to bring this obscurity to life. So a few words about what has received relatively high attention in the comments on the communication – even if it does not deal with disarmament policy and nuclear policy. The Government is playing an active role in the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement obligations and in disarmament with a view to a balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons, on which a legally binding framework is worked for the long term to achieve this objective. Real disarmament requires a practical approach that is at the same time in line with our NATO commitments. Our common goal of a world without nuclear weapons is firm. A targeted and effective disarmament policy increases security. An important Norwegian message at the Washington Summit this month was our joint responsibility to further develop international cooperation against the proliferation of nuclear material. It's assumed that Russia has more nuclear weapons than any other power, including the United States. That the nuclear summit in Washington was therefore organized without the participation of the Russian President, is not only a disappointment, but also a setback when we needed to agree on mutual agreements on disarmament. We live in a world where the risk of proliferation to develop nuclear weapons and the use of radioactive sources of international terrorism is extremely real, and where both state and non-state actors, including extremist organisations, pose a threat to our security. At a time of major international and local challenges, it is essential that there is no doubt about Norway’s security anchoring, namely NATO and the transatlantic dimension. I feel that the government and a large majority are united on this very thing. Let me end with just the importance of standing together. This big message is just about it, about how we should and must secure Norway, our well-being and our values. By being aware of this, we are also better equipped to meet the unpredictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1324	There is consensus on important points in this attitude to global security challenges in foreign policy. It's good, our country's earned it. I would like to highlight in particular the consensus that comes to the goal of nuclear disarmament, that is positive. We are living in a break-in period, and it requires us to be able to hold on to safe anchorages, such as UN efforts and solidarity with our allies in NATO and our natural partners, while at the same time we are able to think and act new. Global security challenges challenge development policy. It is with good reason, as millions of people are hit by war, terror and mismanagement, tens of millions are driven away, and the destruction of modern warfare is disastrous. People and society are affected for generations. We need to think again about the prevention of conflicts and the collapse of states, we need to think again about efforts and strategies that can lead to development, and we need to think about development policies in total. That is why we should have our own big message on the main thrust of development policy, so that we can get a thorough assessment here in Stortinget. The Communication underlines that developments need to be seen in the context of other foreign and security policy issues. It is a wise observation, but a clearer Norwegian profile is needed in the light of the responsibility and leadership we should show, and it suggests that Norway should once again be given its own State Council responsible for development policy. Some people want a sharp distinction between being a humanitarian power and our participation in international military operations. I will warn against such a sharp separation. We shall maintain a strong humanitarian commitment ranging from peace and reconciliation work through development efforts equal to emergency aid. It is a characteristic of Norway. We have knowledge, experience and broad popular anchoring for this. But neither can we depreciate military efforts when necessary. The fight against terrorism must, for example, combat with the whole spectrum of instruments, from prevention in our own communities through police, intelligence, international cooperation, and military efforts. Rejecting military participation capacity is entrusting both international and national security responsibilities to others. It can't be Norway's way. It must be a thing of the past that commitment to combating violence against the civilian population in a country can defecate as interference in the internal affairs of a country, especially when we see that terrorist networks establish themselves in the wake of political disintegration and chaos and pose a threat not only to its own people but also to people far beyond the borders of the country. We found it with al-Qaeda from their base in Afghanistan in 2001, and we are experiencing it today with ISIL from their detention in Syria and Iraq. Both parts are defined by the UN Security Council as a threat to global peace and security. At the same time, over the last 15 years, we have learned – often painfully – how difficult it is to assist states and people who want to combat terrorism and criminal networks within their own borders. We've seen and learned how military engagement from the outside into complicated local and regional conflicts is engulfed with great challenges. At the same time, the world cannot turn its back on the suffering we see. We see signs of reconnaissance. President Obama last week stressed that the United States will give priority to training and training local forces in both Iraq and Syria to combat ISIL. The NATO Secretary-General recently underlined the importance of the Alliance developing capacity building and training in the fight against ISIL, and that this will be a capacity that will be needed for many years to enable people living under violence and terror to fight for their own freedom and against threats that affect not only their own lives and development but also ours. There is a warning of detention in terms of military intervention in complex situations, but at the same time a willingness to make contributions, training and capacity building that can combat terrorism and prevent the collapse of countries under attack. Norway has to deal with this. We can't fight other people's warriors. We have limited experience and prerequisites for military activity in countries far away from us, but in line with international law, we can and should contribute to training and training, if we have experience and capacity to do so. Where natural and possible, such contributions should be developed together with our allies in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1343	Not many years ago, we lived in a world marked by the fact that we had won the Cold War, and peace and stability in Europe were prevailing. Very much has happened only in recent years. It is therefore essential to pursue a strengthened and comprehensive policy to meet global security challenges. We who live in Norway have been groomed for many of the security challenges that we have seen on TV from other parts of the world, with terror and instability. It's not like that anymore. Unfortunately, terror has hit us, quite simply from one of our own citizens, a mad man, who fortunately was alone. So we've felt the hopelessness and fear that arises. Now that we see more attacks from ISIL against European targets, which are only getting closer and closer, the fear of something happening here too. Radical Islam is a big problem and the greatest enemy of our time. Then it's naive and scary that some politicians think it's not like that, and it's not a problem. We are well aware of the foreign-war challenges, and there is no doubt that this gives more uncertainty to the population. International terrorist organisations have suddenly had domestic policy implications. We must meet this with plans, actions and actions – not just naivety. The Progress Party is pleased that the government will establish an assistance programme to prevent radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism in countries and regions affected by conflict, violence and vulnerability. Prevention and information are important factors in preventing further growth in radicalisation. European stability remains under pressure, and the situation in Crimea and eastern Ukraine reminds us that our freedom is not something to be taken for granted. It has not been many years since many speculated in the importance of NATO in the future. Today there is little doubt that NATO's importance is crucial to our security. Norway must continue to be an active ally; we must seek broader and closer cooperation within the organisation. Cybercrime is a growing problem that can also affect social structures. Today's technology development is positive, but it also brings many challenges. Criminal actors or nation-led organisations can steal information, sabotage and control activities vital to our society. The fact that our society is increasingly technologically controlled also means that we are becoming more and more vulnerable if someone wants to hurt us. It is therefore important that we have sufficient preparedness, both military, public and civil. It might also be nice to remind people the most about this, that you can deal with something unexpected – what if? In this way, I am also becoming more and more concerned about some people's eagerness for a cash-free society. There's another debate, but it's important to keep in mind that you become very vulnerable in a crisis situation, and if the banks, your online bank or minibanks are put out of play for a few days or weeks or more – then what? Today's threats must be met with broader cooperation with other nations. Organised crime has many forms and is often linked to terrorist organisations and their financing. It is important to take this threat seriously. Strengthening police and international cooperation are important factors in limiting the growth and prevalence of organised crime. Trade is important for the global society; it is important for development and growth in both poor and rich countries. Safe navigation on the world's oceans is thus crucial. Piracy has been a threat to trade. Wide international cooperation has limited the number of attacks, but there are still challenges and work on combating piracy must continue. Norway, as a maritime nation, must be an active party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1369	We face global security challenges on many fronts. Terrorism, organised crime, piracy and new vulnerability in the digital space are threatening both individuals, businesses and states. The threat of terrorism has also come to a new date in Europe. Terrorism in Paris and in Brussels claimed many lives, but the vastest number of victims is found in the belt of states from North Africa, through the Middle East and to Afghanistan, where militant Islamists fight for control over large land. These security challenges must be met actively to protect our security, our well-being, our values and our interests. The best strategy is to think about the long-term, and prevention is usually better than repair after the damage has happened. It also applies to Iraq and Syria, where the militant Islamic group of ISIL has taken control of large areas. The human suffering in the conflict is huge, the long refugee dreams, the neighbouring countries crowded and hundreds of thousands of people moved on to Europe. The military battle is hard. ISIL has gathered forward-looking warriors from many countries during the appeal of holy war. Their goal is to recreate a lost Islamic caliphate. Translated into modern language, it will mean a prehistoric dictatorship, without respect for democracy and human rights. Norway is struggling differently in the fight against terrorism and for the victims of the conflict. Militaryly, Norway is present in several conflict areas, such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali, but if military contributions may be necessary, lasting peace will only be ensured through political solutions, conflict prevention and community construction. At the same time as Europe is addressing costly military operations, we see trends in developed countries trying to open up aid budgets to finance such security-related projects. The OECD legislation prevents it from being regarded as public aid but is under pressure. Norway's line must still be helping to prevent code outsourcing. The objective of using resources must be development and fighting poverty in poor countries – not to pay international security measures for industrialised countries’ own interests. Two new Norwegian programmes are announced in the Global Security Challenges Storing Communication. The first is the fight against organised crime and illegal trafficking, and the second is to prevent radicalisation, optional extremism and terrorism. Programmes enter sensitive policy areas and need to be developed wisely. Internationally, we should seek coordination and avoid a chaos of many bilateral programmes, and then the cross-border rise to aid funding for the military sector has to be avoided. From the committee setting up, the media posted a draft of the Committee on Nuclear Weapons. The Christian People's Party's vision is clear: the Christian People's Party's programme states that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. Therefore, Norway must be a driver in international efforts to spread nuclear weapons and work long-term for a ban on nuclear weapons. We are therefore part of the Committee majority that states that we support the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament, within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, including a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. In the short term, it is absolutely crucial to prevent the further spread of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, several countries have acquired nuclear weapons since the Non-Proliferation Agreement of 1970. It's a dangerous trend that needs to be reversed. We must prevent Iran and North Korea from becoming nuclear powers. That is why the 2015 Iran Agreement is important. And we have to prevent terrorist groups from getting hold of nuclear weapons or other nuclear material that they can use in dirty bombs. At the same time, nuclear powers must speed up their work in order to build up their nuclear weapons stockpiles. Only then can we achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. The UN has set up a working group to work for this. Norway must be an active driver for the practical outcome of nuclear disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1388	Wants the representative Byrkens to address the proposals No. 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1391	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1396	Then the representative, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, raised the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1399	I would like to thank the case spokesperson for his good work on an important matter. The most important task for all the populace is to secure the citizens. It cannot be repeated too often. The communication on global security challenges comes at a time when there are many conflicts in the global community, and the Central Party is united with a single committee behind most of the assessments and proposals that lead to it. There is no need to divulge from more in today's debate. So I want to spend a little bit of time on what I think is a big paradox. The following is stated in a joint comitology note: ‘The Committee notes that several of the safety challenges we face relate to the cross-border movement of threat individuals. These are people who can have different roles based on where they are in the world but who in any case contribute to threats to national security.» This is a clear speech from a Joint Committee. But what goes on? Do we find a discussion of the reasons why these individuals are a treason against Norwegian citizens by having access to Norwegian territory? No, it's not. The Norwegian border control and the absence of debate on this topic are the elephant in space. Today, we don't know who lives in Norwegian territory. Everyone understands that it is a measure of security against Norway. Responsible authorities simply don't know who's in our country today, or what motive they have to be here. Now the terrorist alarm has gone to our neighboring country. Nor in Sweden has an overview of who has crossed borders for a turbulent time. I would remind you that when Norway abolished the border control, this was done under the authority of Schengen's external borders. The checks along a part of the Schengen external borders have not been carried out in recent years. The government itself has stated that when there is no control over the external borders and the incoming ones are not recorded, the Schengen system is broken down. Even Schengen champions have serious problems defending today's system. With technological developments in recent years, the introduction of personal checks at borders between Schengen countries could also be carried out in a practical and effective way. Among other things, the use of biometric passports can make the border control both safer and more efficient. Such control will easier capture sought criminals, and people with false passports will be detected. Samples are not enough for Norway with a satisfactory probability to be able to stop people who are not reluctant to provide access to Norwegian territory. The Storting manages Norwegian association to the Schengen Agreement twice, in 1997 and 1999. The centre party voiced no when the agreement was concluded, and we are still against him. I have, together with the representatives Jenny Klinge and Per Olaf Lundtegen, put forward a proposal for a representative asking that Norway withdraw from Schengen cooperation. It is a step in the right direction that, through this setting, the Committee honestly states that uncontrolled cross-border movement poses a security challenge for Norway. I look forward to discussing how we can meet these challenges in the most effective way possible. The centre party agrees that we need to work long-term with a range of tools to fight against the global tragedy of foreign policy consequences for Norway. This means that development aid must play on teams of diplomatic, judicial and military instruments. The Centre supports the creation of two assistance programmes in this area, but will strongly warn against eradicating the distinction between development policy, justice policy and military instruments. We also need to ensure that development policy is integrated and not picked from each other for different purposes. It is of particular importance, therefore, that the two programmes be closely followed and that their effects be evaluated. We also look forward to a holistic debate on development policy at a later stage. Another important area of this setting is nuclear proliferation. Although the government might not have planned it this way, much of the discussion and the message is about this very theme. It is particularly positive that a joint committee stresses the importance of the government building on the broad commitment created by the Oslo Conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. A joint committee has agreed that it is a clear goal to create a world free of nuclear weapons. The Committee also points out that the government, in the late stages, will work systematically to achieve the goal of a world free from nuclear weapons, and that in time, it will focus on practical and effective measures for disarmament. There is now a great responsibility on the government to follow this up in concrete action. Five minutes is fast, so I want to sign up for a new post to comment on the settings in the area of nuclear weapons and non-proliferation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1436	The representative might like to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1439	The representative will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1444	The representative of Liv Signe Navarsete has then taken up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1447	We live in a break-in time with great changes and many different poles that work against each other. Many have had good introductions, showing the breadth of the challenges we face. We're facing terror in a different way now than we've done before. I saw figures for a time back that showed that the 1980s was a more dangerous period when there was terrorist attack in Europe than now, but terror occurs in other forms and attacks other parts of society. While the 1980s was against officials and followed clear guidelines, terror in Europe today meets common people in those places that are symbols of the way we live our European life. It's challenging, and it creates a lot of fear. At the same time, we see that very many of the conflicts that were previously removed and did not attack us, all of a sudden now are on our doorstep. For me living in Old Oslo, a war in Mogadishu can be heard very far away, but we know that the short time after that concerns my streetscape, my neighborhood, my school and my kindergarten. It is international and closer and closer. All conflicts are rapidly becoming a conflict on our doorstep as well. It opens up new ways to think about solutions, but it also means that we have an international responsibility that is much bigger than we had before. We are already seeing that the consequences of climate change lead people to escape, and other conflicts are reinforced by climate change. Then we have to think. And then we're exposed to vulnerability, which means we have to think vulnerability in a completely new way, and especially the technology, which many people here have come up with, gives different perspectives. Something is still like the 1980s, when I started my political commitment. In the early 1980s, I was involved in the launch of Youth Against Atomic Weapons in the municipality of Overhalla. It was one of the first things I was involved in politics. We tried to get on the 17th of May train, but No to Atomic Arms was too political to be allowed to go on the 17th of May train in Overhalla municipality. The peasants and other interest groups had a clear seat on the civil train, but not us who fought against nuclear weapons. Some of the commitment that I think marked the whole generation in the 1980s was that children were then very afraid of nuclear war. What many children think about terrorism today, we thought about nuclear weapons. It's not that the challenge is no longer relevant or is no longer urgent – it's just as big as when I was little, it's just as scary as when I was trusted. I wouldn't have been faithful to my inner commitment, to what made me a political person, if I hadn't persecuted it in the hall today too. I am pleased that we have reached the consensus we have reached in the committee, but I think it was a little bit more hump than necessary. So I just want to mention a proposal that we're behind, and that we've been behind for a long time, and it's always time to evaluate our international participation. To be completely honest, I don't understand why you're afraid to do that. I think it's about respect for the soldiers we send out on international missions. It's about openness and transparency in the job we do here in Stortinget. Why political decisions should be except for public debate, evaluation and learning points, I don't understand anything. It took a long time for us to get through here in the Chamber to have an evaluation of the Afghanistan mission. We think it's very good that the government agreed. We tried under the previous government and couldn't do it. I think we should have had as a base here that all such great military missions that we participate in, we need to be able to evaluate afterwards. For me, it's about respect for the people we send in the job. For me, it's about always having to learn, and it's about that this isn't going to be any less of, this is going to be more of it. Then we need to know what to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1466	There is little doubt that war, armed conflict and, for that matter, terror, and I want to add cross-border crime, not only pose the greatest security challenges we face, but are among the main development and foreign policy challenges we face in the future. There's nothing new in it, but first of all, one might say that it's been globalized, that the possibility for terrorist networks and criminals to cross borders and play a role over large parts of the world has increased. And probably there's a lot more visible to us too, because it's no longer so that a big conflict can happen without it being possible to get knowledge and insight into it anywhere. It can destroy development and progress for countries and regions, and it has to go against it. That's probably also why the message is characterized by analyses of which there's a lot of agreement, and concerns that most people share. However, let me say that it is important that the security perspective does not take over foreign and development policy, that we do not start to look at all aspects of security glasses, but that there will be one of many perspectives we see in context. Just as war can hinder development, it is also such that a lack of successful development, a lack of democracy or poor functioning states are involved in creating a grotto for terrorist organizations, or for the sake of war and armed conflict. To put it another way: we should be tough on terror and other security challenges. We must be equally tough on the causes of terrorism and other security challenges. It is also the case that over the last few years, I feel, more understanding of how many of the challenges we are discussing here are going on within borders, and that the world where one could keep to the fact that the nation states were responsible for everything within their own borders and to be a few is over. But there is also an insight into how unlikely it is to contribute to solutions to a regime within the border – with different instruments and not least with military instruments, as the representative Gahr Støre had previously mentioned. There can be no argument for letting yourself be concerned and committed to the challenges that have a decisive significance for human peace and security, and which ultimately also have far greater consequences beyond the region. But it is definitely an argument to show that it can be carefully thought out in relation to what means a user, and also, if necessary, withholding when it comes to the use of military power – understand the possible consequences of it. Many, like me, may have read the big interview with Barack Obama in The Atlantic, where he, perhaps more than any president in modern times in the United States, shows basic insight into the problem of using military power, even where there may seem to be strong arguments to do so. In view of this, I also have to say that, as I mentioned earlier, I find it difficult to understand why there are no more who support the proposals to evaluate the Libyan operation and to make it a firm practice to evaluate major military operations that we are part of – not least in the light of fighting terrorism and securing stable states. We're evaluating a lot in this community. Luckily, I'll say. That's a wise way to learn. Should we not then evaluate the most fundamental – that is, that we participated in a war, and that we will probably do so in the future as well. Libya is today a failed and chaotic state. It wasn't good there before either, it was a brutal dictatorship, but the goal of the operation was among other things. another. We have to be able to ask ourselves the question: was it successful? Not least there was a large and sharp operation. It is important to draw experience, not least for those who participated, and for the Norwegian defence itself. In the end, it is very positive that there is now a broad majority that wants the government to work for a ban on nuclear weapons, and that it is a consensus committee that suggests that we should work for a world free of nuclear weapons and that will strengthen the Norwegian work on it – which several speakers have done. We had a heated debate here a period ago. There I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question, which I had attached to the debate now because there were a number of speakers who criticized it several times. I would like to repeat that question: can the Foreign Minister confirm that the government will work with the majority of people who want to work for a ban, or will the government work for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1483	Organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime are transnational phenomena threatening the daily lives, health and security of individuals. It undermines democracy, it destroys markets, it weakens the governance of states and contributes to environmental crime and to the destruction of the basis of life – to mention something. That is why the Greens want the Greens to be welcomed by the government to work to combat these phenomena. Norway has long done a great deal of good work nationally and internationally in neighbouring areas, but this effort has been symptomatic and needs to be expanded increasingly to systematically address the underlying drivers of global uncertainty. This means that Norway also recognises and reduces our own contributions to global uncertainty. This means, for example: a clearer no to nuclear weapons, for which there is actually a majority in this Chamber. The nuclear agreement with Iran is a major step forward, limiting the nuclear threat and opening up new opportunities that we need to use. The government deserves praise for its contribution to that nuclear agreement, but at the same time I regret the non-binding compromise formula that we just got about Norway's view of an international ban on nuclear weapons. Norway should be able to say clearly and unambiguously that a nuclear-free world is our goal and that we will work for it. The Green Party disagrees that a long-term objective of the abolition of nuclear weapons should be any threat to NATO cooperation. The most important prerequisite for peace between people is that people have an acceptable and safe basis of life. The most dangerous consequence of climate change, loss of species and ecosystem destruction is that it weakens the life base of humans and forces a large number of people to migrate and to conflict. Therefore, economic and political investment to preserve the life base of the future and to stop climate change is one of the most important things Norway can do to contribute to an internationally secure future. Environmental crime is linked to organised crime as a serious threat to security and life base. That is why we expect the fight against environmental crime to be strengthened in the form of concrete priorities in the State budget. Biodiversity loss is a threat to human well-being, and the Greens want Norway to contribute to international legislation that includes species eradication as a crime against humanity, in line with other crimes. This so-called Ecocide concept should be added to the five other crimes of the United Nations against peace and humanity, along with genocide, war crimes, assault wars, etc. If this concept is gradually added to, abuse of human life will also be punishable internationally. Years of extreme drought in Syria was one of the drivers that triggered the disaster that is going on for full force in Syria today. There was not one factor that created war alone, but it was therefore very clear and, as the information comes, increasingly clear examples of the direct consequences for peace and security of human life undermining. In other words, recognising that environmental and climate change affects international peace and security, as this Communication does, is good, but it does not last when going to symptomatic treatment. We have to go more straight to the roots of the problem. This means that Norway’s own activity, Norway’s own international efforts, must be more thoroughly analysed in relation to the international security consequences. This means that we also need to address other new factors that arise in international conflict management, which can have good objectives, but bad consequences. One of them, as I will mention, is the work against automated killing, the use of drones and other in warfare, which is something Norway now has to take up as part of the work to regulate the activity of war zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1496	We live in a break-in time that demands new demands on our foreign and security policy. Unconventional safety challenges are increasingly affecting global stability, security and development. Actions far away have immediate consequences for us and our neighbourhoods. There is a link between these challenges — and how they reinforce each other — that now calls for our attention. The threats to our security are becoming increasingly complex and unwieldy. The overall purpose of the Communication is to respond to this new development, to help secure our common security. We will develop a strengthened and comprehensive policy to meet global security challenges. We have promoted 40 concrete measures in the communication. Keywords are increased knowledge, better coordination and capacity building. The government will contribute to increased knowledge building on global safety challenges among Norwegian analytical and research environments. The Government shall strengthen the international community’s fight against corruption. Analysis of – and in some cases also addressing – global security challenges will become a priority part of the work at our foreign stations. The attacks in Istanbul, Paris, Baghdad, Brussels and Lahore show that terror strikes blindly. The networks behind these attacks often have branches across borders. This makes it difficult to detect and prevent attacks. World society must stand together to face and prevent the threat of violent extremism. We're going to do our part. We are stepping up efforts for the long-term effort to prevent violent extremism. Civil society, youth and community must mobilise with governments and the international community. We have to work systematically, long-term and on many fronts. But we also have to think about new things. Last year we took the initiative in setting up the European Youth Network YouthCAN. In cooperation with Facebook and Twitter, they will prevent young people from being recruited to the ranks of extremists. We have established a global alliance of women's organisations working against violent extremism, with a particular focus on gender. In addition, we have contributed to the creation of an international network of ‘strong cities’ which are particularly active in the fight against violent extremism. Oslo and Kristiansand are among these. I also discussed how we can get more out of this with Mr Kristiansand's rapporteur yesterday. Organized criminal smuggling networks play a central role in the migration flow to Europe. According to Europol, this activity amounted to between 3 and 6 billion. EUR in revenue in 2015. At the same time, we know that taxation of smuggling is one of ISIL's main sources of funding. Criminal networks are particularly destructive in vulnerable countries. Action against such networks will therefore be a necessary part of the government’s work on vulnerable countries. This is the first time the Storting is presented with a message that looks at these global security challenges in a foreign policy perspective. I value the broad consensus in Stortinget about the lines it's added up to in the message. To address the new threats, we need to even better combine foreign, development and justice policy instruments with intelligence and information sharing. Developments in the last year have only reinforced the need to strengthen our overall policy. The government will therefore bring a new message to the Stortinget about the main lines of foreign and security policy to the next spring, which will also follow up, among others. what is now contained in this message. In the case of nuclear disarmament, which has also emerged as an element of this position, I believe that we are on a good compromise in the current Roman majority decision. The government's disarmament and non-proliferation policy remains based on the goal of a nuclear-free world. We contribute to the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement – NTP – commitments through balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable reductions and, as it says, also in the Decision, ‘on this basis, we will work long-term for a legally binding framework to achieve this objective’ – based on the criteria that I now set out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1525	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good contribution and a good big message, and we will probably have the opportunity to discuss the nuclear issue further in this debate. But my question is about development policy, because it is a very good reason to turn more of the aid into vulnerable states to prevent war and conflict. But it travels a number of dilemmas. Firstly, we are dealing with areas where we have less knowledge from the Norwegian side. Secondly, in such countries, there is an increased risk of corruption and the failure of assistance. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about dealing with these dilemmas? A good intention – yes, but we may not spend the most money on the development policy that has real impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1530	Thank you for a good question, and I share many of the dilemmas raised by the representative Huitfeldt. If we want to reach the most vulnerable in the world, for example. The 16 million children who do not receive education — if we want to reach the poorest — are very often in the most vulnerable countries. So it's been created the recent impression that it's betting on e.g. vulnerable countries, as we have done – six of the twelve focus countries are vulnerable countries – are also a strategy to reach the most vulnerable and many of the poorest, but our work in Somalia, South Sudan, the work we have started in Mali, and the work we are doing in Afghanistan, shows that these are complex areas to operate in, and where challenges are also faced. But you can't just go for the low-hanging fronts, where it's easiest. We also need to help where the greatest needs are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1535	Trusting in Turkey and North African countries when it comes to closeing the EU borders leads to the EU being blackmailed has been said by the leader of the EU Council, Donald Tusk. The EU must have control of its own borders, it will have too high a political cost to trust Turkey and the countries of North Africa, he said. He also stated that our help solution would provoke attempts to extort Europe and force it through wide-ranging admissions. I realize that cooperation will only be equivalent when we have the ability to control migration flows," said Donald Tusk. There are strong words from the EU Council leader about the importance of control of own borders. How does the Council of State assess the resilience of the EU-Turkey agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1543	This might be a little pre-mail fixation for the spontaneous question hour? With regard to the EU-Turkey agreement, it has begun to work. We see that the migration flow across the Aegean has decreased. What has been important for us to stress is that it must take place within the framework of international commitments on the part of the European Union, but it was not possible to continue with the situation we had last year, as 800,000 people moved through Greece and used it as a transit, and the Schengen external border did not work. The external border of Schengen is also our external border with Turkey. Those entering Schengen, for example: asylum seekers must be registered and fingerprinted and the application must be processed in the country in which they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1550	I'm not going to pre-fect at all, but on the contrary boast of the post of the Foreign Minister, as I thought was very good and reflected. The small exchange between Huitfeldt and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a matter of crucial importance. There should be a way of adding that since private capital streams now make up a significantly larger proportion of the money streams of well-functioning, but poor countries, one might think that we are going to maintain the aid, but use something more of it for strategic challenges of the kind we are discussing here. But I want to ask you something else, and that's why the government doesn't want us to evaluate the Libya operation, which Norway took part in. The government itself, on the initiative of others, has put forward proposals to evaluate the long-term participation in the Afghanistan operation. The Libya operation was completely different, but important and complicated, and could therefore be important to evaluate. Now it's been a few years. Can a few reasons for not evaluating him?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1557	Let me first comment on the first part of the article. I'll answer the last one as well. I very much agree with what the representative Solhjell said related to the countries that are now poor, but which are likely to become middle-income countries, but in the lower low-income countries. There we see that development aid might be less than 10 pst. the flow of capital. We are not going to stop contributing there, but there we have to use the aid more catalytically, so that it promotes private investment. In vulnerable countries, assistance often constitutes much, much more, and they are totally dependent on it in order to get into that situation later. With regard to the investigation and any so-called evaluation of the Libya operation, our position is that we must now have the Afghanistan evaluation on the table. It's coming in June. So we have to get back to that question. However, there can be no automatic evaluation of any military operation that Norway has been part of. Then I think you lose some of the effect of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1566	This is also not a pre-postage issue until tomorrow. The theme of nuclear proliferation - nuclear weapons - is very much described in the setting. The government party is gradually drifting when it comes to a common note that says that one should work for a balanced abolition of nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, in winter there was an impression that wanting such a development would be contrary to NATO membership. As the government party has now changed its position, it would be interesting to see to the right of the Foreign Minister how he wants to put forward the work of being a diplomatic agent in various bodies, in NATO and in other assemblies, in order to carry out such an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1573	Perhaps it's not a pre-postal fixation for tomorrow's spontaneous debate, but a warm-up? I don't know. To the question from the representative of Navarsete, we are very concerned about the question of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, Norway was one of the few countries that contributed to bringing chemical weapons out of Syria. We were also one of the countries that contributed to the implementation of the Iran agreement with regard to the transport of uranium, and we have been constantly very clear that we share the vision of a nuclear-free world. Of course. And that's also NATO's vision. What NATO's Secretary-General has stated is that as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world, NATO will have them. But what we have agreed on in this Roman Numeral Decision is crystal clear: you have to work for a nuclear-free world and get to a balanced, reciprocal, irreversible disarmament. When it is a fact, of course, you also have to work for a legal code, a legally binding framework, to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1583	The global security situation is characterised by unforeseeability. The threat picture is changing rapidly. We see cynical traffickers sending refugees and migrants in dangerous boats and craft across the Mediterranean, which is a new situation, based in a disintegrating country and without a state formation, Libya. Internationally organised criminals now serve more on human trafficking than on prostitution, arms trafficking and drug sales. Disintegrating countries, such as Libya, make the situation even more precarious not only in the Middle East and around the Mediterranean but with ring-effects across Europe. At home, we see that internationally organized criminals have become so-called interdisciplinary. The same mafia that sends sex slaves to northern Europe uses trafficked people for thefts and drug options. We also see a clear link between organised crime and terrorist groups. For example, ISIL finances: its terror through the illicit sale of oil and cultural treasures and spread its ideology and actions through social media. ISIL escapes from the inconspicuous situation in Iraq, but terror affects both the Middle East and Europe. We are still in grief and in shock after Paris and Brussels. Terrorism against Christians in Lahore, Pakistan, shows how the world is woven together. The Internet and social media make this possible. I agree with the big news that capacity and institution building in development policy is becoming increasingly important, including in addressing global security challenges and strengthening countries’ potential for economic growth and prosperity. This is a demanding process in all social sectors. However, capacity building in the security and defence sector in vulnerable countries is necessary in order for countries to ensure their own security, and Afghanistan is a very good example of this. Today it's been 30 years since the Chernobyl accident. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses some of the greatest threats to our common security. Nuclear weapons are the ultimate weapons of destruction and a latent threat to the very existence of humanity. Most nuclear weapons today have a significantly greater explosive power than the bombs that were released over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The work for disarmament and a nuclear-free world needs initiative and direction. There's got to be pressure on the nuclear powers. Therefore, in March 2013, the Red-Green Government took an initiative for an international conference in Oslo, a conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. Norway must continue to play an active driving role in the work of a nuclear-free world. I would like to stress this as strongly as I can with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Chamber. I also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to note that the majority of the Committee's comments support the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament in the context of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, including a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. And once again, I would like to point out what has been said by others, too, that when a majority in a committee vote underlines something very strongly, it is also, at best, guiding the work of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I believe that it should be binding and give clear, clear signals to the way in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs should continue to work. Finally, I would like to commend the government parties – and the Minister for Foreign Affairs – to contribute to the fact that the Storting today asks the government to work actively for a world free of nuclear weapons, and among other things. calls for a long-term approach to a legally binding framework to ensure the objective of the abolition of such weapons – and I would like to add that a legally binding framework is hardly anything but a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1609	There has been a good and broad discussion of the global security challenges that characterise our time. In a world where we see that states are in disintegration and several non-governmental actors are given access to weapons, it is even more important that we pursue a policy of arms control. We saw it in Syria, where chemical weapons were used for the first time in many years. Norway has helped to get these out. Imagine if there were more people who had access to these terrible weapons. There was also an important reason why Norway was in the vanguard of important international conventions against mines, against class weapons. In a situation where several non-governmental actors are given access to weapons, we must limit access to those weapons that have major humanitarian implications. That's the same thing with nuclear weapons. It was said from this room that nuclear weapons are equally dangerous today. Yeah, maybe we're even more vulnerable at a time when terrorist groups can access grotesque weapons. That is why we must join forces and strengthen international efforts against nuclear weapons. Russia's lack of presence at the last international conference gives strong arguments that we should intensify this work. Today, Stortinget makes a unanimous decision that Norway should commit itself to working for a world free of nuclear weapons. It commits, and it also obliges the Minister of Foreign Affairs to contribute more actively than he has until now done in this work. It is often said that now, when we see the security challenges from Russia, we should focus our defence more on what is happening here at home. I agree with the first part of this reasoning: we should strengthen our defence here at home. But we should not reduce our international commitment, because the security challenges we see in many countries are also a challenge for us, and it is also a commitment to our allies: to contribute where the threat of terrorism is increasing and where such forces are increasing. So there's no contradiction between strengthening the defense here at home and contributing internationally. Nor is there any contradiction between Norway being a humanitarian force that provides a great deal of assistance and the fact that in some areas we also contribute militarily. It is said by some that when we see disintegrating states, it is more important that we perhaps look through the fingers of some authoritarian states, and accept that they have not come so far in terms of democracy. I want to protest very strongly against such an analysis, because we have seen in many countries that when authoritarian regimes rule for many years, it becomes like a pressure cook: regimes fall to the end if they don't have popular uprisings. Thus, there will be more instability, more uncertainty, which will ultimately result from authoritarian states being ruled. I would also warn against the fact that, in today's situation, we are not indicting human rights violations. It's more important than ever, and it prevents an unstable world. We discussed aid policy a little. I believe that we should provide more assistance to vulnerable states, and it is clear that we need to contribute much more to, for example. training of the refugees who have fled Syria today, whether in Jordan, Turkey or Lebanon. It's important that we don't get a whole generation lost. So I think the answer is just the United Nations. With regard to vulnerable countries, I would also like to warn against doing as many others have done: mix what is humanitarian aid and military support. This often leads to less development, often leading to greater problems, including for those who are aid workers. So the answer to what I and the Foreign Minister discussed during the line exchange here, I believe is about a strengthened UN. We see it, among other things. in the International Vaccine Programme, which reduces support for those countries which have experienced major economic developments. It is no longer necessary that we contribute Norwegian financial assistance in those countries with significant economic development, but we contribute to the establishment of large international structures in cooperation with the United Nations in vulnerable countries. In a world where several countries are disintegrating, it is Norway’s clear role to contribute to strengthening multilateral cooperation on aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1630	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1633	The Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be commended for submitting this communication. This is the first time that the Stortinget gets a foreign policy message that captures cybercrime, piracy, organised crime and terrorist activity. I acknowledge that. Since 2013, terrorism has increased considerably, both in the world and in Europe. IS shows a frightening professionalism in both its recruitment and communication work. Between 20,000 and 30,000 people have travelled to Syria as foreign warriors, about 5,000 from Europe. Compared to the Muslim proportion of the Norwegian population, relatively many have travelled from Norway. When terror hit Paris and Brussels so brutally, our values and our social order became the object of terror. We are in a European destiny community. The government has strengthened the PST and the Intelligence Service both financially and organisationally. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels, the European Heads of State stated that the exchange of intelligence was one of the main measures to combat terrorism. It is probably outside the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer for intelligence and police cooperation in Europe, but I address a problem anyway. During the Luxembourg Home Affairs Council last week, the EU's Head of Anti-Terrorism stated that there is still a huge gap in the exchange of intelligence information in Europe. It turns out that only 5 out of 29 countries have reported to Europol so that Europol’s registers and databases are up-to-date, and there are probably 2000 missing names of foreign fighters who should have been registered. This is quite serious, in view of the fact that IS’ management has actually encouraged foreign fighters to carry out terror in their home country when they are prevented from doing what is their first duty, namely to participate in battles where ISIL has territorial control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1646	I stopped my main post instead of the fact that there is now a great responsibility on the government to follow up today's Romantal decision to work to abolish nuclear weapons and turn it into concrete action. The foreign minister's reply to this question did not give much response to the government's intention to do so. The central party insists that we want an international ban on nuclear weapons. It's hard to see a world free of nuclear weapons without an international ban. That is why, together with the SV and the Left, we are making a proposal asking the government to see Norway play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we are working for a ban on such weapons. A Joint Committee notes that the government is to contribute to the progress of disarmament efforts with a view to the «balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable» abolition of nuclear weapons. Balanced and reciprocal disarmament is important. In winter, in some media, it has been claimed that working for an international ban on nuclear weapons would be contrary to our obligations to NATO. This I think is completely wrong ending. I would like to refer here to a well-written chronicle in the Newspaper by Tomas C. Archer, Lieutenant General and former Inspector General of the Air Force. He recalls that the 1949 Atlantic Pact does not mention nuclear weapons in one word, and that our NATO membership does not in any way prevent Norway from contributing to a world without nuclear weapons. Trying to create the impression that the work of an international ban on nuclear weapons is weakening our support for NATO, is with respect to reporting completely wrong. The Central Party supports hundreds of percent of our membership in NATO. I would like to remind you here that, as the first party, we have to decide that Norway must meet our financial obligations to NATO by increasing our promises to the Defence up to 2 pst. of GDP, to which it has committed itself. A strong NATO has established strong national defences, to which Norway is of course to contribute. NATO shall be a nuclear alliance as long as nuclear weapons exist. But NATO's strategic concept makes it equally clear that NATO is going to create a world without nuclear weapons. That's exactly what we do, when we as a nation want to contribute to a balanced and reciprocal disarmament. Norway must therefore work to improve the understanding between our NATO allies in order for nuclear weapons to be abolished. We have to do everything we can to reduce the huge risk of nuclear weapons is for all of us. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has an important and great job in carrying this out in his dialogue with his colleagues in NATO. Today’s Romantal Decision must and must be followed up in practical and concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1664	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1678	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to four rows of replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1689	It is important, and it is necessary, that the government will increase Norwegian support for industrial activities in developing countries, and that strategic cooperation with Norwegian business and Norwegian knowledge environments in that work is facilitated – this is because work and job creation, and therefore tax revenues, are a prerequisite for growth, development and poverty reduction. In African countries, 90 pst. of all jobs in the private sector, and in ensuring new and sustainable businesses, Norwegian businesses can also make an effort. We actually have some sunshine stories. One of them is the Little Nut Factory in Mozambique – which I have been able to see very closely – the country that is famous for its amazing cashew nuts. Brynild The group in Fredrikstad is the main actor together with Norway's Vel and Norad in this project. 4000 farmers deliver to the factory nuts packaged and exported, including: to Norway. We also have Master Green in Kenya and Tanzania – here is «by the way» The Labour Party is a great customer, as most people probably know. We are talking here about strategic partnerships, which are added value both for the companies involved and for the community. Employment, not least in the agricultural sector, ensures income and development. The Committee has made some important assumptions for a Norwegian approach to industrial development: It has to be done in a sustainable way. ILO core conventions must be underpinned. Employees must have the right to organise and have collective bargaining rights. This means that Norwegian development work must also contribute to the construction of trade unions and employers’ organisations. In the committee position, we have focused on active tripartite cooperation, in which the parties develop pay and working conditions through negotiations in cooperation with the authorities. This is an important feature of the Nordic model of society, which many countries today see with interest. It is also necessary to place strong emphasis on human rights and the development of democracy in a country when supporting business start-ups. I would like to refer here to the United Nations' guiding principles and the OECD's guidelines. And: Norwegian aid and development policies must contribute to increased financial transparency and prevent Norwegian business investment from contributing to tax evasion and corruption – perhaps it has become more important than ever to emphasise it. Country-by-country reporting and the expected ownership register are important tools, but this must be done in transparency. The Committee asks the government to ensure that the alerted country-by-country reporting under the Accounting Act and the introduction of a Norwegian ownership register ensure such transparency. An important part of development policy — and global gender equality work — is to bring women into the formal economy. I am aware that the government is pursuing an action plan for women's rights and equality in Norwegian foreign and development policy. As far as I understand, women's economic participation, including business development and job creation, is underlined. It's positive. But business development can not only be a central part of Norwegian gender equality policy, gender equality must also be a central part of Norwegian industrial development policy. Equality must be used as a comparative advantage in all Norwegian development policies. The Communication points out that the main challenge is to translate globally accepted norms on women’s rights and gender equality into practical policies. Let me add: When a study from the World Bank shows that 100 countries still have laws that limit – and I repeat: limit – women’s employment opportunities, either through restrictions on working time or on the type of work women can take, then there is still a piece of normative work that needs to be done. Norway needs to speak with a clear voice internationally. It's also about fighting structures. There is a need to work widely to reduce political, economic, legal and social barriers to women's participation in the labour market, as well as to promote women's opportunities as entrepreneurs. These include women's financial participation, savings and loan groups, adult training, microcredit and entrepreneurship, and not least women's ownership and inheritance rights. Equal access to land is also required for women. Perhaps it should be added that women in industrial development and agriculture also have a positive impact on the local and national economy. The Committee also underlines the central role of agriculture in food security, but also in creating jobs and contributing to industrial development. I will again refer to what I said about cashew nuts in Mozambique and the Little Nut Factory. It is also important that small-scale farming is involved, which means a lot to contribute to poverty reduction. Sustainable production and processing of raw materials — and planned trade and exports — can bring millions out of poverty. We have had decades of low commodity prices and lack of investment, as well as poor conditions for farmers and farmers. Climate change also challenges agriculture. There is a current need for investment and measures to help maintain the labour force. Agriculture needs stability and needs to be made more sustainable and productive. Many Norwegian enterprises have a significant presence in both middle-income and low-income countries. It includes the focus countries for Norwegian aid. And as the message says, they've come up with a great deal of understanding of local development challenges and bottlenecks that prevent growth and development. Aid may be the trigger for enterprises to scale up activities contributing to local development. The paper is concerned with strategic partnerships, cooperation with business actors, cooperation on a local development challenge where the parties have a common interest in improving the situation. An example of strategic cooperation may be co-financing of a vocational training school. Enterprises will have access to skilled workers here, while helping to train more people professionally. The Swedish Sida has also had great success with such a model of cooperation. Finally, the Communication mentions the UN funds and programmes and also contributes to industrial development. In addition to rules on value creation and trade, they make significant efforts through targeted measures for jobs and businesses. The United Nations Development Programme places considerable emphasis on employment and on ensuring a living base for people. They also support entrepreneurship programmes, microfinance and the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it is right that Norway places emphasis on job creation and industrial development, in dialogue with the United Nations system. And then finally, today there's been an article about Cuba in today's business, and so we've seen that the American president has been there relatively recently. In fact, Norwegian business exposure based on active political will can be an important door opener for investment, including from Norwegian business, in Cuba. Perhaps we should look at the possibilities for Norad, Norfund and the Peace Corps to also enter and secure a development in this country, which has been both deranged and poor, and where the people now deserve development. Now there has been trouble, and the American president has been visiting. Perhaps we should now consider whether Cuba should not be assisted in the development of industrial policies and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1752	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mrs Nybakk, for the good work and cooperation in this matter. Economic growth has been the main factor for the vast majority of people who have worked out out of poverty in the last 15 years. The Chinese saying "Give a man a fish, and he has food for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he has food for a lifetime.» sums up the good importance of measures that last. The goal of industrial development and job creation in developing countries is to create lasting changes and thus have the ultimate aim of eliminating the need for assistance. Access to jobs with good working and pay conditions is one of the strongest driving forces in the fight against poverty. In the last 25 years, the proportion of people living in extreme poverty is more than halved. A total of 700 million people have crossed the limit of extreme poverty. In the last 50 years, world average income has tripled, and in 2010 most of the world's total gross domestic product, GDP, was created for the first time outside the OECD. The common denominator is a more open economy and extensive international trade. Trade is the strongest driver of economic growth and thus the ability to create jobs and economic prosperity. No country has worked out poverty without economic growth, industrialisation and trade. But economic growth alone is no guarantee that development benefits the population, thus reducing poverty and fulfilling social and economic rights. Authorities must develop and use their own tax base for development, whether in the case of revenues from natural resources, from business or from personal taxes. In the last few decades, economic growth has also been strong, so that many developing countries have just greatly increased their tax receipts. Between 2005 and 2010, developing countries doubled their own public revenues, we read in a report from the Development Initiatives. In 2014, for example, developing countries absorbed almost 40 times as much tax and other income as total aid in the same year, i.e. 33 000 billion. kr. It's almost five times the present value of the Norwegian oil fund. However, we also know – still according to the Development Initiatives – that this does not apply to all developing countries. Assistance remained the main source of international capital for the poorest countries – for 37 countries – in the world, most dependent on aid. However, development is primarily created by sound national policies, where political institutions and processes that ensure the distribution of power, the rule of law, democracy and human rights are central. Local authorities’ organisation for good governance and their own economic development through openness towards the outside world is important. In this context, we can also stress what Marit Nybakk said about the ILO Conventions. An open economy with stable framework conditions that promotes local and foreign investment and increased trade is a prerequisite for growth in tax revenue and as a basis for growth. Freer cross-border trade and investment are essential for growth and development. It is central to facilitating foreign investment. That is why we want to increase trade with poor countries. We will focus on industrial development, investment and economic growth in co-operative countries through a modern and broad instrumentation. By 2020, 600 million new jobs are needed globally. At the same time, there is a shortage of skilled labour. Only in sub-Saharan Africa, 120 million young people enter the workforce in the next few years. This is Africa's great opportunity. But it can have consequences for the migration pattern and become a major safety challenge if these cannot find a decent job. When more than 50 million young people do not go to school, it is not just a violation of a fundamental right; it is also a serious obstacle to development. The poverty rate in low-income countries could have been reduced by 12 pst. if all children could read and write. In order to get young people into work, reduce unemployment and secure economic growth, a boost for education is a good investment. I would like to remind myself that under the red-green regime, the proportion of the aid budget went to education fell. The government will double the investment in global education during this period. Norway takes a global leadership role in education for all. The announcement of the ‘Education for Development’ promoted a special lift for vocational training and higher education on the international development agenda. It is important that countries themselves can have the opportunity to ensure access to skilled labour and to get people to work. The UN’s Millennium Goals have been important for world development and Norway’s priorities for assistance. Global extreme poverty has been reduced from 43 p.m. in 1990 to 21 p.m. in 2010. It shows that through targeted cooperation and ambitious goals, it is possible to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030. Aid is now less important for the development of poor countries than in the past. Private capital flows have increased sharply from 1990 to 2013. In Asia and Latin America, aid now accounts for a small proportion of the capital received. Aid to Latin America amounted to about 5 pst in 2014. of the capital received, while 70 p.m. comes from foreign investment and 25 pst. from private transfers. In 1990 the aid amounted to about 30 p.m. of the capital received. In Africa, aid is still important, with about 50 pst. of the capital received is still aid, but less important than 20 years ago, in other words, aid amounting to around 90 p.m. of the capital received. Among the UN's 17 new sustainability goals is the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full employment and decent work for all. Assistance from rich countries can never replace the impact of industrial activity, such as direct investment, trade and agriculture as important drivers of positive development in poor countries. International cooperation and coordination are crucial for the success of all countries in a globalised economy. The world's economic changes go hand in hand with the shifts in power that bring with them the potential for friction, conflict and confusion of international cooperation. It is natural to expect emerging economies to have influence, but also to assume responsibility according to their economic weight. Although new structures and actors are emerging, the new distribution of power is neither clear, stable nor effective. I am therefore pleased that the government will work to promote globalisation through fair and rules-based international cooperation, with a focus on sustainable development, job creation and economic growth through open trade. Norwegian assistance shall contribute to poverty reduction by facilitating private investment and job creation. Nine out of ten jobs in poor countries are in private enterprises. The majority of future jobs should also come from private businesses. Increased efforts to improve the framework conditions for private investment in developing countries and enhanced cooperation with industry are important elements. Catalytic assistance, which triggers efforts by others, not least from private businesses, is crucial. A commitment to industrial development and job creation should be comprehensive and reflect existing programmes such as Oil for Development, Fish for Development, Tax for Development and a strong link to industrial development and investment. This, together with a strong commitment to education, will contribute to a good sustainability of assistance, based on the resources of individuals and the ability to create their own livelihoods. The objective of development policy must be to provide a basis for economic growth, prosperity and independence. Assistance plays a role, but a lasting development for the poorest in poor countries must come from the countries themselves. Local organisation, knowledge of health and prevention and the strengthening of young people through education and entrepreneurship are important factors. Independent sustainable development requires a transition to an efficient market economy on local premises. It requires better functioning labour markets, goods and services markets and basic financial services. In addition, simple technologies may, for example: contribute to the creation of better markets. Mobile phones today are, for example: both information channels and payment intermediaries. By using a mobile phone, local farmers in Ethiopia know about the coffee price on the market in Addis Ababa and can therefore get the right price from their buyers. Norwegian business is an important player in development policy. Cooperation with business actors in development policy is therefore becoming more important. The private sector creates jobs and generates tax revenue and well-being. The EEAS should be more a tool to promote Norwegian business interests abroad, and that is good. On the right, cooperation with private actors will be strengthened. Public-private cooperation triggers both competence and capital, both of which are needed in developing countries. Norway, for example, is a partner in the Global Partnership for Education, which provides private capital in addition to traditional assistance. Norfund is an important instrument, which, together with private partners, invests in developing countries. These types of efforts are important to strengthen development policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1788	Looking back, looking at the figures, looking at what history tells us, there must be no doubt that it is the private sector – not the public sector – that contributes mainly to poverty reduction and economic growth. It is important to be involved in discussing this issue. The vast majority of developing countries are therefore quite united in this, and have a clear policy objective of attracting increased investment, removing customs barriers, concluding free trade agreements and making private business flourish – in order to become independent of assistance. We have seen that aid has become much less important for developing countries than before. As also noted in the Storing Communication, aid in 1990 amounted to 63pst. of all capital flows to low and lower intermediate income countries. 23 years later, in 2013, this proportion was reduced to 21 p.m., while poverty has been reduced – a fantastic development. At the same time, it has been seen how investment from one country to another has had positive consequences. Several hundred million have raised themselves out of poverty. We also see that Norwegian business has become much more attractive to bet in developing countries, and this investment has doubled in the last decade. It's a pleasure. But I'm pretty sure the potential is much greater. The main task of Norwegian foreign stations is to ensure Norwegian interests. It's important not to be forgotten, and I'm glad that this government is also more focused on this. Combining Norwegian interests with strengthening Norwegian business and exploiting the benefit of the presence of Norwegian business in many developing countries should be done to a greater extent, and the opportunities available there should also be considered. Norwegian aid policy should increasingly form strategic partnerships with Norwegian business. Promotion and industrial development are not mutually exclusive, even in the context of the principle of unbundled aid. I am also pleased that the Government will give energy a more important place in Norwegian foreign policy, which undoubtedly has broad support here in Stortinget. Development policy and enterprise policy instruments have different objectives, but it is important that we take advantage of the competences we Nordics already have in the focus countries we are going to focus on. We have enough examples of Norwegian aid going to failure projects because there was not enough knowledge about local conditions and what needs were in this developing country. State Norfund has also been evaluated. The evaluation gave a consistently positive assessment of Norfund and concluded that Norfund’s investments are within the mandate. Furthermore, the evaluation concluded that Norfund delivers good results and operates effectively, mobilises private capital and launchs important ground-based projects in developing countries. When you look at the yield in Norfund and compare it to maybe a little bit more conservative oil fund, it's pretty impressive that for several years they have a clear return up to 20 pst. The budget figures for the last ten years show that there has been a triple in the bet on Norfund. It's increased from 495 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 1,5 billion. kr in 2016. I would also like to highlight the Norad Business Support Scheme for Business in Developing Countries. Such a scheme undoubtedly contributes to the drying of Norwegian businesses and is crucial in several cases. For example, this aid scheme was essential for Telenor to invest in Bangladesh in due course. There are several Norwegian enterprises in several sectors, ranging from high-tech enterprises producing energy to slightly simpler production and development, which – as was also mentioned earlier today – cashew nuts in Mozambique. For all of them, Norad’s operating aid scheme was used and triggered the investment. As a former member of the nutrition committee of the Storting, it may not be unnatural for me to mention the importance of agriculture. We should support agriculture in developing countries. The small thing I've been to low-income countries, and not least read of reports, clearly shows that farmers in these countries need both fresh capital and new technology – new technology for them, but perhaps not for us. Research and focus on innovation are also very important. In conclusion, I also want to boast that the government is delivering in the field of education with increased appropriations. In addition, I must also commend the Norwegian research environment on foreign and development policy. The knowledge we have in this field here in Norway is undoubtedly a resource that we need to be better at exploiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1814	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and for their good input into the debate. It shows a broad consensus in the direction, but it is also fun to enjoy the developments that have taken place – the positive thing that assistance actually helps to create, and where assistance is no longer necessary because it can target those who need it even more. The broad consensus that job creation that generates tax revenue is crucial for poor countries to create development is clear. What is also important about it is that creating jobs, getting tax revenues, contribute to the creation of political stability in society – which is crucial to the success of development. However, it is still a major challenge that many countries do not have sufficient governance and do not have effective tax legislation. That is why it is good that the Committee also points out the work that needs to be done in parallel, because it is a major problem that political elites, economic elites, are able to avoid high incomes from taxation, thereby weakening the ability of countries to create social development and good welfare measures, such as: health, education and job creation, which is crucial. In 2014, I had an interview about job creation. There was not necessarily a clear response from the Council of State, nor from the Committee in the debate. I am not going to collect the answer to the interpellation in this message, but at least we have come a few steps further with how important job creation is, and in the practicalization. What I think is even more important is that we manage to follow up on the individual budgets. I would also like to say that important chapters in the 2016 budget were not as large as they should have been. I am absolutely co-responsible for the budget settlement that was designed, but we should wish that the budget had been different. So I guess I'm going to say that I hope the 2017 budget will be a normalised budget year, and that we can resume the important items that unfortunately have cut in the current year. To the message: The government is raising Norfund as perhaps its main player in promoting business development. Norfund is an incredibly important tool. What I think is positive is that Norfund also distorts his investments, sells himself out of the middle-income country, turns it against the poorest countries. Now it is well up to three-quarters of investment targeted at the poorest countries, especially in Africa. It's right to sell out and release large sums, so they can create investment in the poorer countries. I also think it is important to bring forward the work done not only to make large investments in larger companies or to buy up hydroelectric power plants or companies, but that Norfund actually helps to create new businesses and is able to meet the ‘missing middle’ – those who want to develop further from microfinance, but are not big enough to participate in the usual support schemes. It is important that Norfund also participate and contribute. As regards agriculture, the Committee is clear on the importance of agriculture for development. The World Bank and others have shown that investment and development in agriculture have a significant development effect — at least twice as well as in other sectors. Here Norfund can also do a great job. At least it's important that jobs not only give money to them at the top, but that they are created to work all the way down. It is also important that business development is more than just Norfund. ‘Agreement on the job’ means more than just Norfund and, as many people have been involved in it, various individual companies are laying an important foundation. We just had a meeting with working, which is doing a great job. They are involved in meeting stakeholders in their countries of cooperation, where they are involved in developing companies, helping them with e.g.: design or other, which in turn provides a basis for them to sell their goods and increase their trade. But civil society is also important. I was just in, among others. Nepal and saw small groups that together form cooperatives, together savers, together provide the opportunity to make new investments, create businesses, create jobs, which reach out completely. What I want to say in the end is that if we are to succeed, we must be sure that it has a developmental effect. Several sluts within that balance sheet, but the point of using assistance in this field is to create development. It is therefore important, in the case of administration, to demonstrate, in the case of evidence, that the funds are used in the best possible way and that the development effect is created.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1835	I would also like to thank the case manager for a good job with the Enterprise Development message in development cooperation. An aggregate increase is agreed to increase Norwegian support for industrial development in developing countries. It's a good starting point for the government to be behind. I am pleased that a joint committee decides that Norwegian aid policy should benefit the entire population of the beneficiary countries. For the Center Party, it is an overarching goal to participate in a society with fewer inequalities. It applies both nationally and globally. That must always be the aim of our aid policy. It is particularly difficult to create better allocations of resources without a stronger focus on openness and distribution policy. In the case of the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the development of nutrition is to be carried out in a viable manner. Good and long-term management of natural resources is one of the basic thoughts of my own party is built on. I thought Gunnar Stålsett said well, as several decades ago he defined growth as managing better than consuming more. But how will the government ensure that the good intentions are followed up? In the hearing, organisations suggested that the government should extend the requirement for reporting on the activities of the various companies building up under human rights and sustainable development objectives. This may be followed by developments over time and, where appropriate, by action. This is advice the Council of State should follow up. Norfund is a main recipient of Norwegian industrial development media, but receives relatively little attention in the message. The evaluation of Norfund in 2014 raised questions about the impact of the investments made by the company in developing countries. Norfund has a relatively open mandate, with opportunities for strategic adaptation. It is very important that the government makes sure that the investment Norfund does, in fact, reduces poverty and that income from investment does not accumulate in relatively few hands in the beneficiary countries. As mentioned above, the provision of environmental and labour rights and wages are important for people to rise out of poverty. For Norfund, as a major recipient of development funds, it is particularly important to ensure reporting that a good social analysis of the countries in which an investment is made is carried out, that they assess the strategic arrangements for investment and that they are in line with our objectives. The Committee underlines the central role of agriculture in providing food for the growing world population and in providing jobs and industrial development in developing countries. Strengthening small-scale producers is important; they must be part of the value chain. It will contribute to job creation and poverty reduction, according to the World Bank investments which, for small farmers in developing countries, are at least twice as effective in reducing poverty, such as investment in any other sector, and which provide up to four times as much poverty reduction in the poorest countries. A targeted effort on women will not only improve their financial position but also appear to have a positive impact on both local and national economies. The priority should therefore be given to women in the labour market. It's an important bet. A key aspect of spreading power is to strengthen employees' rights. Therefore, it is wise that business operators who receive support should base the eight core conventions of the ILO on their activities. A comprehensive committee points to active tripartite cooperation in the workplace. The way in which we have organised our working life in Norway, we have been entirely determined that we have been shut down in building a strong welfare state, to the joy of all the inhabitants of the country. This is important to be aware of, something the Center Party has underlined in its own comment. In a world where US market liberalism and China's state capitalism are most visible, we need a third way. For me, there is little doubt that the most viable option for these societal models is the Norwegian model. We people in Norway must be aware that fending for the Norwegian welfare state is not only an important national responsibility, it is also an international responsibility for us. It is a strength for us in the Committee to gather on the goals to be pursued, and on the means to be used to achieve the goals that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1863	The message we have in front of us is very good, and there are many good articles that have been made before. But I'm going to warn the Foreign Minister that we lack the sustainability goals in this message – and we're going to ask that every time: For every message that comes from now on, the sustainability goals and their assessment up against the policy are going to be part of what we're going to ask about. The only thing I think the message is a little unclear about is when we both want to promote Norwegian interests and development at the same time, because sometimes there is a break where this is not the same. Sometimes it's the same thing, but it also happens that it's not always the same, and then we have to have a clearer assessment of it. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad had a very good point that I think is the main challenge on this whole field forward. We're very good at herbal remedies, we're good at microcredit, we're good at small businesses, and then we're very good at Norfund and the big businesses when they roll in. But it is the middle level that is the major challenge of industrial policy — and this is also the case in Norwegian policy as a whole. There are major challenges to getting products into the markets and skills in how to grow. I have notified an interview, to which the Minister is fortunately coming and responding, on Thursday on research, and this is also a field in which we lack a lot of research, on the impact of the various efforts on development – this concerns both human rights, equality, competence and industrial development in individual countries. So this is one of the areas where it's exciting to research in the future as you focus more on business development as well as on aid. It does not say so much about the message. I would also like to stress that it is important to use different actors. Work has been mentioned. Also, the NHO is doing a great job as the driving force for contact between Norwegian business and business in many of these regions, but also for building civil society, structures, which are involved in lifting this field. So I'm going to mention one thing that I don't think has been taken up so much -- there's a lot of people who are both on the run and traveling around, and many of them are going to go back -- that's to make sure that they have competence with them back, not just simple sums of money, but that they can actually bring with them other things that make them part and create something when they get back. This is an effective way to use a return policy that also contributes to the development of those countries where we want to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1876	It is not a coincidence that there is relatively broad agreement on analysis and presentation and on many of the measures in this message, such as: the case-speaker has done the right thing. Because it is quite clear that economic development in poor countries is a decisive way to increase economic activity, to get people to work and to make sure that private and other investments into the country can contribute to the development of a modern and well-functioning business. It is therefore also an incredibly positive trend – as we have seen in another case – that private capital of different kinds, not least investment, in many poor countries today represents a significantly greater share of the total ‘input’ of capital to those countries, because it provides a greater potential for economic development. In many cases, as the message has done well, assistance can be used to trigger even more of this. In addition, I would like to stress that there are other aspects to the development of economic activity in a country that is important, namely that if over time there is to be a significant amount of private capital to a country, that country must be a well-functioning legal state and have security for that investment and institutions that ensure that this can be long-term. Therefore, it is important to build up the rule of law and democracy and to invest in future industrial development in these countries. Another important perspective is that economic growth and investment — and creating a business life — play a decisive role in economic development. There are also countries that have had significant economic growth, but where there are still very many poor. It is not that economic growth and industrial development themselves eliminate poverty. Poverty will be eliminated if, in addition to this, one manages to distribute growth fairly evenly, so that large parts of the population – or preferably all – actually benefit from it, and if one manages to create established economic institutions and tax systems that can build up challenge, health and capacity to govern the country – which make it possible to continue to capitalise, and one, for example. can invest in challenges and thus in future employees – and if one can invest in a sensible and well managed way. It is also the case that many of the investments we make can have a much greater nutritional effect than we think in everyday life – which several speakers have been in. The focus on gender equality in development policy is, in very many cases, effective economic development, and, as stated in a note, there is also cause for concern that precisely the business area is one of the areas where gender equality results are not yet good enough. I want to round off with a little visit to the renewable energy area, because it makes a lot of sense that is said here, as the message says. But this is an area where the potential is much, much larger than what we have just exploited from Norway's side, and there are some other decisions, outside this message, that the government has not followed up well enough – as I see it. Firstly, it's the significant cut in the state budget with regard to renewable energy efforts, which I hope we won't see in a new round now, right in a period where there should be growth instead of cutting in this area. Secondly, it is because one has not been willing to make use of the investment opportunities in renewable energy that we could have when changing the rules on the petroleum fund. This is also a matter that has been up in Stortinget. Thirdly, the Christian People's Party and the Left were given a ruling on GIEK and the possibilities of using it for renewable energy, which has also not been properly followed up. So in the renewable energy field, there's a lot of potential, but there's a bunch of other simple decisions that haven't followed up this well enough. To round off: In Norway, economic development has an important and central place in a continued development policy, but only side by side with other perspectives, such as distribution, the building up of institutions and the building up of functioning countries, which are necessary to exploit the potential of growth and economic development, in order to benefit the entire population of a poor country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1891	Job creation and a well-functioning business are prerequisites for poverty reduction. In 1990, aid amounted to over 50 p.m. of access to capital for developing countries. Today, the same number is less than 20 pst. Nine out of ten new jobs in developing countries are currently being created in the private sector. We know that a robust and growing private sector is crucial for developing countries to move up and become middle-income countries. Therefore, the government strengthens the focus on industrial development in development cooperation. The aid shall be used more catalytically. More local jobs must be created per aid fund. We need to mobilise more private investment. More growth is needed to contribute to increased national resource mobilisation in the cooperating countries. While aid is becoming less and less important, trade and private investment are becoming increasingly important for growth, prosperity and poverty reduction in many developing countries. But here we have to distinguish between those who are on the way to becoming middle-income countries, and purely vulnerable countries – a discussion that we had earlier today. For weak and vulnerable countries, as I mentioned, this is different. Assistance continues to play a major role in preventing humanitarian disasters and preventing countries from collapsing. The summit on financing for development in Addis Ababa last year placed great emphasis on the mobilisation of private capital. The new UN Sustainable Development Goals, which were adopted following the presentation of this Great Britain Communication last June, set important standards both for government and for business. The Paris climate agreement from December indicates the direction of what must become a global green shift. Increased efforts for industrial development in development cooperation therefore require an overall approach and new tools in several areas. We will prioritise broad cooperation with the UN and the development banks in order to strengthen the framework conditions for business. The consideration of human rights, the environment, equality and the fight against corruption are far-reaching themes that have a significant impact on growth and investment opportunities. The Government, by presenting this Communication, which focuses on the importance of the private sector in creating jobs and opportunities for all the young people who need education and training, has promoted a comprehensive policy. In addition, we have promoted our own big business report, which has been addressed by the Stortinget, on education in development policy. And today we have also discussed the new global security challenges. This shows that we have had a broad approach to what a forward-looking development policy contains and should contain. Through trade policy too, we are working for stable and predictable global driving rules. In order to maximise the impact, we shall give priority to focusing on the development of nutrition in key synergistic countries. This is a country where the authorities show particular willingness to facilitate local business development and where Norwegian businesses have interests and competences. Strategic partnerships with business must be an important part of the new initiative. For there are commercial actors who can best assess which investments can deliver sustainable growth. Assistance policy should help businesses to do more of their best – to create growth and jobs. Norfund will continue to be our main development policy instrument to promote industrial development in the south. In addition, new industrial grant schemes are being set up with clear development policy objectives. These shall be application-based schemes in which Norwegian enterprises, clusters and knowledge environments will also be able to compete for funds. In particular, let me underline – as more representatives have been involved – the importance of vocational and vocational training. If you look at the Middle East, the population there has increased four times since 1950. The same has happened in Africa – there are four times more inhabitants in Africa today than it was in 1950. Young people in developing countries need qualifications requested by business. They need more education. The dramatic growth in global migration flows, including to Europe, is due inter alia to: the absence of educational opportunities, work and prospects for a decent life in many developing countries. Therefore, increased efforts for vocational training and job creation must also be seen in the context of government involvement in vulnerable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1921	I thank you for a good post, and there has been a good discussion in the hall here today as well. There is agreement on the main lines, and it is based on much of the same thing that we have built Norway in the postwar period, that creating jobs is important for economic development. I support what is about providing more advice to Norwegian businesses, Norfund and the measures presented here. The question relates to the Committee's comment on tripartite cooperation in the workplace and on what is called - in the professional language - ILO's eight core conventions, which deal with the right to negotiate and organise. We cannot transfer the Norwegian model to other countries, but it is about fundamental rights, such as: support for the construction of workers’ and employers’ organisations. We saw, not least in a country like Tunisia, the role it played in the Arab Spring. What will the Foreign Minister do to strengthen tripartite cooperation in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1928	As the representative of Huitfeldt underlines, it is positive that there is a broad consensus on important priorities in the area of development policy. Strengthening the private sector to create jobs ashore is also essential to the migration wave in which we now stand. I also feel that there are good feedback on the educational effort associated with vocational training and job and education opportunities, and that there is support for a strategy for the most vulnerable countries. In a private sector and capacity building effort in countries, it is also important to civilise working life and ensure that workers’ rights are respected, not least through a strong ILO, and it is part of Norwegian development policy to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1933	I would like to thank you for a very good post. After all, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, there is a broad majority behind the initiative that the government now wants. It is essential to succeed in being involved and supporting, supporting, exercising, developing experience, etc. to ensure that countries themselves develop their business life. That's what's the key in this, that they succeed in education, succeed in building the countries, and also be able to build a stable business that creates jobs. But as I was in my post, it is such that this message came last year, and the Council of State launched it with great zeal and visions for the development of nutrition. Then came the budget harvest, and for example. cap. 161 Industrial development was well halved – and we are all aware of the circumstances surrounding the harvest budget. But is this the case when the Council of State has now received full support for the message, that he will do even more to strengthen this entry in the budget that is coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1940	With regard to the current year's budget, there is no doubt that some tough priorities had to be set in order, not least to lift the humanitarian effort of Syria and neighbouring countries. The Prime Minister also promised 10 billion. Norwegian krone for the next four years during the great Syria conference in London. There is also no doubt that investing in Jordan and Lebanon is an important part of both education and training and the strengthening of the private sector. So as for what goes to what of the means that are allocated, it's also important in that context to clarify that much of it can go for the purposes of this message. And there are few countries that give as much per capita as Norway. I think it's just Luxembourg. So that's exactly the arrangement that the representative refers to, the small scheme, which is of course possible to look at at at next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1945	News Our country wrote on April 13 that Norfund believes that tax havens are necessary to invest in developing countries. Eva Joly believes that one of these from the Norwegian state is involved in legitimizing tax havens, and that because one can hide who is the owner of a company through the use of tax havens, Nordfund is thus risking investing with a company that does not know its owners. There has been a great debate on tax havens in other contexts, and so it is also appropriate to ask the Council of State if he believes that the use of tax havens is in line with Norwegian aid policy, and what he will do to abolish the use of tax havens when it comes to assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1952	I'm glad Navarsete's representative brought up this very thing about Norfund and money in tax havens. Norfund does not place money in tax havens. All Norfund’s funds go to what they should: investments in industrial activities in poor countries. All investments are organised in local companies that report income and pay taxes in line with local rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1957	I guess that's not what I was asking. Can I get a follow-up to that? Can the Foreign Minister also confirm that a Norfund side does not invest with companies registered in tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1964	Which companies Norfund invests with in the countries I was in, I don't have a full picture of, if they go into funds, that's when the State pension fund is abroad, for example. invest in an international company, who are the other investors? I don't think you've started to interfere so far, but of course I'll also look into it. What has been important to me is that Norfund does not put money in tax havens. All Norfund’s funds go to what they should: investments in industrial activities in poor countries. All investments are organised in local companies. If there's someone who has invested in the local companies, who also has its origins in a tax haven, I think the representative would have to withdraw from that investment if someone had done so in tax havens. What is important is that Norfund does not invest in tax havens, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1969	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1972	Our development policy has historically been dominated by efforts in key areas such as health, education and agriculture, and with a wide range of objectives – women, civil society, distribution, democracy – all central building blocks in the economic and social development of a country. But there are also other building blocks that are needed to generate economic growth and not least jobs. The development of our own society from a poor peasant society to a modern welfare society took place through the development and development of our footfalls as a basis for industrial travel, exploitation of our forest resources and our fishing resources. On this we linked the organisation of the workers and a policy that ensured a fair distribution and that the values contained in the natural resources benefited the entire people. This provided a basis for funding good health care, education and private wealth for everyone — no bad recipe for other countries on their path of development. It is therefore good that development assistance now includes energy through a Norfund in cooperation with Norwegian energy companies, fish for development programmes and contributions to the prudent and long-term management of the rich natural resources of poor countries, and ensuring that revenue goes to countries and peoples over international groups and sole rulers. This growth message focuses on industrial development, the need for jobs and the income they provide to people and countries. In Africa, by 2050, there will be one billion young people under the age of 18 if population development continues as it is now, young people who year after year come out of educational institutions and will look for work. Therefore, a key objective of our development policy must be to create jobs. As the message shows, there are many grips and tools that need to be used. Norfund is one good example — the combination of a development policy tool in cooperation with other industrial actors. Investment in energy, roads, ports and other infrastructure will be important. The World Bank and regional development banks will be key actors. We're part of this, last of all through our participation in the Asian Investment Bank. Norwegian companies play important roles. Almost wherever we travel in Asia or Africa, we can visit a Norwegian factory – the Yara fertiliser producer or the Jotun paint producer and in many places Telenor. In this way, Norwegian business has contributed to jobs, economic growth and tax revenues that far exceed the development assistance we grant money for here in the house. Trade is highlighted in the Communication as important for developing countries to connect to the international value chain. That's right. Investment and trade will often go hand in hand. However, investment in many of the developing countries involves not only market risks but also political risks. In such a light, investment protection mechanisms will be important. The EU has now launched a model that can provide the basis for a firmer dispute resolution court. Most countries are more economically integrated with their neighbours than with export markets further away. This is why the regional cooperation structures developed are also important elements in creating economic growth and jobs – the African Union, ASEAN cooperation and China’s last initiative on the new Silk Road. This is the eighth big message on development policy in the last ten years – all with different approaches and issues, all with important elements in order to create economic and social progress for the poor of the world, and all with many objectives that everything we do must embrace most: women, peasants, people with need of help. We'll also find it in this setting. It is time for an overall big message about development policy, so that we can see the individual elements into one whole, and because this government operates with quite extensive changes, a little bit by bit and without making sure that there is a solid political majority behind these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e1992	In all our wealth, I have often thought about what it would be like to have grown up in a developing country, for example. In Africa, where the majority of people in the country do not have a job to wake up, where serious pandemics create fear, where climate change forces people to flee, first internally and then out of the country to seek security for themselves and theirs, where hunger and poverty make very many children unable to learn, if at all they have a school to go to, and where many parents at this moment ask themselves the question: Will my children experience a morning when they were infected by, for example, today? Child Sickness Measles? These are some of the challenges facing the peoples and parliamentarians of developing countries in their everyday lives. How to create a society that ensures the security of its citizens, through, inter alia: creating work, which in turn enables countries to provide satisfactory welfare services in health and education and other welfare goods? The road may be long. Our joint responsibility is to help get it done. From the rich world, aid has been the answer when developing countries have asked for help. Assistance has been and will still be important, even in time to come. But now we see a development in which the contribution to industrial development is given greater and greater space, and that is an important and proper turning of our aid work. We are now approaching 1 May, and it is tempting to bring forward the Workers' Party slogan 'work for all', also in this debate. We all know what the meaning of having a job is to all of us. Similarly, we know what's in social distress, not having a job. “Freedom is the root of all evil” is a worn-out expression. Millions of people know it on their bodies every single day. I was at a conference in the direction of the World Bank for a while. The World Bank's clear and clear objective is to reduce poverty in the world. One instrument is increased trade between countries — especially for low-income countries. What we see is that economic growth in these countries has stagnated because of the crisis in the world economy. At the same time, unfortunately, there is a trend in increasing protectionism in the inter-country interaction, which we know is the hardest hit by low-income countries. The clear objective of this Communication and also the message from the World Bank is to make developing countries as much as possible able to attract increased investment in order to become as independent as possible from assistance. In that setting, it was interesting to listen to the leaders of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Both strongly warned against fighting between countries in order to offer the most favourable tax advantages to businesses in order to establish themselves in their country. It doesn't have any developmental effect, it's only the companies that will benefit from anything like this. Also, tax havens are not the solution, were a clear message. A unanimous committee is clear that a good tax system is important to finance basic services such as education and health. For this reason, it is interesting that the IMF and the World Bank are working to create a global tax system to improve the ability of countries to develop jobs, while at the same time developing a minimum of welfare provision for their population. That's interesting, because research shows that when a country's tax level is around 15 p.m., GDP per capita will increase. In addition, climate change schemes, health and gender equality policies were the subject of this conference. Democracy development, which we take as a matter of course, was also an important topic and specifically addressed to those countries that do not have that opportunity today. I think I'm stopping here, but I just want to say that it's useful to help. We were so lucky to experience as part of a committee in Mozambique, where we saw how Norwegian aid and Norwegian aid crowns are used to give children a safer tomorrow through vaccination. We were also allowed to see the combination of other important areas of action, such as: family planning and birth control. So those tax dollars I was very proud of when I saw how they were used.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2014	I want to start my article by sharing a personal experience. On the mounds of Andes, Peru, among others, live the lay people. Among these people, I was allowed to live and work for several years, through a building development project called Ayni. Ayni is Aymara, an expression that means "I'm helping you, and you're helping me back," or "one service is the other value". It's about recycling, which actually gives value and dignity to the aid work. This expression, which was practiced in this region, was also well anchored among women. Women in all countries are important actors, but often we see them as weaker than men in most developing countries. Helping women actively participate in business development is self-help, and we get an Ayni effect. Practically speaking, helping circles in the water, and a bet also on women has a great potential, not only for women themselves, but for the whole family and for the community, and yet such a commitment also has an impact on the national economy. When work and development are anchored in women, something happens. Nutritional development must also involve follow-up, dialogue and openness, and there must be expectations that something will happen, that there will be a development, that is, an Ayni effect. According to figures from the World Bank, women's participation in the labour market and access to wages have stagnated on a world-wide basis, which has actually declined since 1990. We therefore need a boost for women, and I could wish for a stronger target formulation and reporting in the area of the aid budget, which is about women and gender equality. There is still a job to be done to strengthen women’s potential for industrial development, whether in South America, Cuba or Africa. Here it is possible to actively cooperate with Norwegian business, Norfund and voluntary organisations to just create values. If you help me, I'll help you back – if we all have to take an Ayni, an Ayni in our community and in our work for the development of development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2027	I talked for quite a while last, but in such a long and wide debate things go through the air as it is tempting to comment, and I think I have to be allowed to do that. First to the representative of Ropstad, who spoke of Norfund. There I would like to refer to the evaluation that was carried out, which gave a comprehensive and positive assessment of Norfund and concluded that Norfund delivers good results and operates effectively. They mobilise private capital and launch important ground-based projects in developing countries. That's what the representative wanted. Then I have some more considerations, for my own account, and it's about ownership. That should also have been said in this debate. The right considers ownership to be important for development. In several countries, the soil is cultivated by farmers who do not own it. If this land is sold away, whole rural areas can remain without anything. In many cases, there is also considerable uncertainty about the property situation. Too many poor people, this is precisely an important prerequisite for being able to lift themselves out of poverty, including for women. In Africa, women produce 60-80 pst. Of all food, but they only own 1 pst. of the earth. The weak ownership of women makes it difficult for them to borrow in order to increase production and often results in their being excluded from agricultural programmes. This is one of the reasons why the right to property should be given increased attention in development policy. This call for proposals highlights women’s rights and gender equality in business development, and Norway will continue to support targeted efforts to reduce political, economic, legal and other structural barriers to women’s participation in business. Combined with the focus on global education, especially for girls and women, this is an important job initiative to achieve the UN's sustainability goals. The case rapporteur, Mr Nybakk, said quite wisely that equality must also be at the heart of Norwegian development policy. I fully agree with that. Gender equality is also a high priority, both as its own field of activity and as an integral part of development. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is completing an action plan on women’s rights and equality in foreign and development policy, and the backbone of the action plan is the new universal sustainability objectives adopted by all UN member states in 2015. An overall ambition is that no one should be left out – leave no one behind – and that one should try to reach those who are most marginalised, first, so that everyone can participate in the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2040	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President has reason to believe that questions will be raised about the procedure in the next case, so the President will propose that voting be called, so that we have the hall assembled before we proceed. No one has protested against it, so let's do it. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2047	The size goes on to case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2061	The matter to be dealt with by the Grand Duchy has been dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for a year and a half, and the challenges of the case have been many. Prior to the debate on the referral of this matter, the Committee has now received a new dossier from the Ministry of Defence. It is a very comprehensive 150-page report which was sent to Stortinget as late as Thursday 21 April, and arrived at Stortinget according to the Stortinget log on Friday 22 April and received by the Committee yesterday, Monday. So there are two comprehensive reports with attachments. One is a final report by the Ministry of Defence on the internal audit of the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft, dated 11 April 2016. The second is a report from the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Defence on the disposal of defence equipment in general, dated 23 November 2015. In my view and in the view of the Committee as a whole, it is absolutely necessary that we now have the opportunity to review the new dossier and decide how the matter should be dealt with further. This is also necessary in view of the size and seriousness of the case. On this basis, I therefore allow myself, on behalf of an overall committee, to request that the referral be sent back to the Committee, cf. Article 41 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2070	I take note of the committee's decision to postpone the debate, and I also understand that it is a desire to get involved in the material that has been transmitted. For the sake of order, I am obliged to draw attention to the fact that both in the minutes of both hearings and in the extensive correspondence with the Committee, these reports are mentioned. They are also mentioned in the setting. The Internal Audit Report of 23 November is discussed in both hearings because the Ministry of Defence itself commissioned the Internal Audit Office to review whether the Defence and Ministry have appropriate internal control procedures. We have then wanted to work with the findings that are, it is also mentioned in the letter to the Committee, and a schematic overview of the measures already implemented and the ones we are working with is attached. With regard to the F-5 report that the chairman of the committee presented quite correctly, it is an updated report that has taken up the changes and assessments that have been made, including those of the internal audit, that some of the aspects that were initially considered, based on an external tip the Ministry of Defence was given, now seems to be in order. For the sake of order, I also add that we have followed the same practice as in the correspondence with the committee here as well, so that the upgraded versions of the reports were made publicly available on our websites while the reports came to Stortinget. I thought it was important to have the reports submitted before the debate, and that is why they also came. I have, as I said, an understanding of the desire to postpone the debate, and I look forward to coming back to the Storting and debating on the date that Stortinget decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2085	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the suspension be returned to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, pursuant to Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. Does anyone ask for the floor for this proposal? It is not, and the proposal has been unanimously adopted. We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2099	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. 2 and 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Storting to sue for the addition of the Baltic Sea watercourse to the watercourse protection plan.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a proposal supplementing the watercourse protection plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2129	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to sue for the addition of the upper part of the Østeresse watercourse to the watercourse protection plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2171	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Liv Signe Navarsette on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No. 3, by Astrid Aarhus Byrknes on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Left Party proposal No. 4, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 5-11, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 12, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to close immediately all exports of A and B material to all States participating in the Saudi-Arab-led coalition participating in the war in Yemen.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2205	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 6 and 8-11, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to specify the criteria used for each refusal.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the publication of reasons for refusal and acceptance of licence applications to countries outside NATO.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the Act/Regulation, not only in the Guidelines.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to explore the possibility of developing control mechanisms to allow enforcement of retail declarations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of random checks on the end-user documentation provided.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests that re-export clauses become practice in all exports of military material, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2249	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to tighten up the legislation on exports of defence equipment by not allowing Norway to sell strategic goods to countries where the authorities commit serious human rights violations and systematic repression of its own population.’ [[including A- and B-materials and multi-purpose goods]] The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2265	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider an extension of the information provided in the annual notification by stating in the list of granted and refused applications for export licences the basis used for the decision in the various cases.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2281	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of parliamentary selection or ethics for the export of Norwegian defence equipment. In such an investigation, it is natural to look at the experience of Sweden, England, Belgium and other countries with mechanisms for increased parliamentary transparency.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2297	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of further developing today’s retail declaration system for exports of strategic goods be explored by the government, for example by allowing random checks to be carried out on specific end-user documentation after a period of time.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast against and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.26.32]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2311	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks whether the content of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement can be incorporated into Norwegian law or regulation, in order to give it a stronger legal base and not only reflected in the Ministry’s own guidelines.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 52 votes were cast against and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16-26.57]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2331	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast in favour and 47 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.27.28]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2340	I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2345	The Committee's position was then adopted by 52 votes to 46. Mr Vegar Solhjell has asked for the floor to be put to the vote on proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2351	It was not mentioned that the Socialist Left subsidiaryly supports the proposal No. 1 and 2 in the previous votes. I would like to believe that someone from the Left Party may have voted against. We should have voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2356	There is a new vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2369	There is a new vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2398	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Astrid Aarhus Byrknes on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Party of Centres, Left and Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, the Left Party and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway plays an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promote a ban on such weapons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2423	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a firm practice of external evaluation after Norway has made significant contributions to international military operations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of the Norwegian participation in the Libyan operation in 2011.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2452	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2487	Case No. 6 is already past that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-26.ana.ud1151e2768	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
