ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e69	From representatives Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Bård Hoksrud, applications for leave are available from 2 May to 4 May – both to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Iceland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, Kristian Norheim and Hanne Thürmer, are called to meet on May 3rd and 4th.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e90	The representative, Mr Renate Håheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e93	On behalf of Helga Pedersen, Eirin Sund, Jan Bøhler, Stein Erik Lauvås, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I propose a more active housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e98	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e101	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e106	He won't. It is economical for Storting’s work – an example of follow-up. [[Laughter]] The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e124	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to observations by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e135	The government has developed a escalating plan for the drug field with the three main areas of early effort, treatment and aftercare and follow-up service. The plan shall contribute to an improved, reinforced, cross-sectoral and co-ordinated response to groups at risk or in the process of developing or having lighter or moderate drug problems and to serious drug addicts and their relatives. Numbers from the Norwegian Patient Register show that about 27,000 patients were being treated in the specialist health services for drug problems in 2014. 36 pst. of these had alcohol problems as their primary condition. 28 pst. were in treatment for opiate problems. The responsibility for the treatment and follow-up of people with drug problems is shared between municipalities and countries. In addition, in the drug field, we have a large element of non-profit and voluntary organisations that complement the public services and contribute to shortages and to the overall capacity of supply. That's 58 pst. in 2014 were run by private, in total by important non-profit organisations. The Committee shall meet on the main objectives of the plan. There is a consensus that municipalities will have a key role to play in ensuring the success of this escalation plan. The Health Directorate has pointed out that there is a need for increased capacity in the municipality of Russo, and has estimated a need for 4,000 new annual works by 2020. Local authorities are important in order to achieve the objective of early intervention. You need to increase user involvement and related cooperation in this bet. A joint committee is deeply concerned that so many people with drug problems and mental disorders who are being treated for this lack a place to live. An organised bidding service is a very important part of the rehabilitation process. According to the SINTEF report from 2013 is 7 pst. of patients in mental health protection and 1 pst. by patients prior to multidisciplinary specialised treatment registered as ready to print. Most people are waiting for a place to live. The action plan must, according to the Committee, set clear and measurable targets for strengthening housing, as this deficiency has so great an impact on patients. A joint committee also points out that efforts need to be intensified to identify children and young people who develop drug problems and that services need to be made more accessible to young people. In particular, the Committee points out that about 70,000 children have parents with a serious drug problem that affects their daily functioning. The Committee stresses that among health services, the health centre and the school services are of great importance in order to be able to capture children with parents with drug problems. Alcohol is undoubtedly the drug that causes most social costs to society, to the family and to the individual. There is a concern in the Committee when it comes to what is in the escalation plan about a tendency for the older generation to increase their alcohol consumption. The Committee also refers to the high costs of alcohol in the workplace. The Committee acknowledges in its comments the important work undertaken by Akan to facilitate drug prevention in working life. We have great expectations for the work to be done on developing a guidance for drug prevention in public enterprises. Here the public should lead by example. While the Committee has dealt with cases, in the public debate it has been a strong focus on LAR treatment for pregnant women. In general, the Committee points out that early intervention against women using drugs needs to be strengthened. Childbirth with alcohol damage is also a problem in Norway. Women must be fully informed whether the alcohol consumption during pregnancy can cause harm to the child. Implementing the experience of early life-style trials in pregnancy in the national guidelines on maternity care is an important step towards prevention and detection of accidental drug use in parents. A joint committee supports the proposal to ask the government to consider offering free long-term prevention to all women who are seriously addicted to drugs. A joint committee suggests that women of reproductive age starting in LAR should be thoroughly informed about LAR treatment and pregnancy and caution against becoming pregnant during LAR treatment. These children know we are born with abstinences, and both Norwegian Children's Medical Association, the Children's Office and the midwives' organizations warn against today's practices. In the setting, the committee writes: ‘Women in LAR who wish to have children must be offered assistance for the tapering of LAR drugs.’ The Committee also writes that individual assessments must be carried out here. A Joint Committee asks the Government ‘to put in place a simple and unbureaucratic system to provide women with long-term free-of-charge prevention at LAR start-up’. A plurality in the committee, all parties outside the Christian People's Party, writes that it should not be an absolute requirement. There are, of course, several aspects of this plan in which the parties are not fully consulted, particularly in relation to the type of drug to be used for medically assisted rehabilitation, including heroin-assisted treatment. What the Committee collects from new drugs is what is called naltraxone treatment, which is a very good project in Health Bergen, which is not addictive, and this should be part of the national supply. In the Committee, we also disagree on whether to introduce the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print before drugs and psychiatry, as early as 2017. Among other things, the Center Party is very sceptical about introducing this in a year's time, when we know how much needs to be done before this becomes a good patient offer. It is known that there is a political inconsistency about the system of free treatment choices, and it also appears in the setting. There is interdisciplinary outreach to the principle of a continued legal ban on drug use and possession, but one will have more of alternative criminal responses, such as drug law enforcement programmes and more use of Section 12, etc. The Committee also presents in the setting the challenges of criminal services, which are closely related to what we want to achieve in the drug field. 65 pst. Of those admitted to prison, drug use is high, and a large majority of those admitted also suffer from mental illness. The Committee points to the need to strengthen the provision of health in prison and to strengthen cooperation between health and justice. Otherwise, there are several things in this escalation plan that should be mentioned, ranging from dental challenges for those who have a drug problem to what one now mentions and says one should focus more on, both nutrition and physical activity. It is important and, of course, obvious, but there has been a lack of treatment provision today. It is a concern that there are still too many overdoses in Norway in general when it comes to drugs, and there is also a concern that arises, at least from the Central Party, when it relates to the quality of LAR treatment in Norway, which we have also proposed in the past. But all in all, there is a great deal of agreement about this escalation plan. We'll see if there's enough money, but it's not just about this. At least I want you to be happy now with what is the good intentions described in this plan. I will deal with the suggestions that the Central Party is behind in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e174	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e177	It is very good in this escalation plan for the drug field, not least that we continue to raise a patient group in cross-political terms that really needs to be seen. It is also gratifying that this has happened so well in the last ten years. But it is our responsibility as politicians to set clear goals and ambitions on behalf of the spaces. I therefore choose to use the post to bring forward the areas where the Workers' Party believes that we should have gone further, been even clearer and not least more ambitious. The working party believes that the relationship between alcohol and health should be given a much greater place in the drug notification. Alcohol poses a major risk of life-year loss, provides more than 70000 children with challenging growth and is also the main gateway to other illicit drugs. There has been a marked increase in alcoholrelated morbidity and hospitalisation. According to SIRUS, 17 pst. a risky consumption of alcohol by the population. A revised guide should have been developed for the permanent staff. The decision-makers should be given a clearer role. There is a need to strengthen action at the workplace and to be much clearer on the prevention and follow-up of vulnerable groups, especially children, and to address whole families affected by alcohol problems. A register should be established for children born with abstinence and children should be entitled to follow-up until adult age. The Child Protection Act should also be amended to allow vulnerable families to be followed up before birth. There is also a very large proportion of children and young people in child protection with mental problems and major drug problems. Rus knows we're strengthening and creating social, health and economic inequality. That's why we need a clear drug plan. The other area where the Workers' Party believes we should go further is the organisation of services for the heaviest addicts. There are few patient groups who need the full healthcare more than serious drug addicts. The timetable consistently refers to the need for better coordinated services. We also know that the medical treatment should have the desired effect, there must be close and continuous cooperation between the municipality, Nav and the specialist health service. There is a need to exploit all aspects of the interaction reform. The largest cities have the biggest challenges and have been the most advanced in the development of supply. This is why the Workers' Party proposes that the largest cities be given a test of new models of interaction in order to achieve a more holistic and individualised treatment course between specialist health services, municipal health, work and housing. We want to highlight in particular Health Bergen, who has developed a collaboration related to the heaviest young addicts from the Floen collective. It concerns young people between 18 and 30 years of age. In parallel with treatment, they have been closely followed up by evidence-based methodology of individual job support, where rufunkrants have received support to enter the ordinary labour market. Remember, these are some of the heaviest addicts we're dealing with. The result is alarming. 28 of the 53 participants are currently in pay 100 pst. employment in the ordinary labour market. Their feedback is that social inclusion means enormously just to create new networks. This should not only be a wake-upr for drug treatment, but also for Nav measures in general. The heaviest addicts have very complex health challenges. The working party believes that they should be treated as other patients, and therefore doctors should be entitled to use the entire Common Catalogue in the treatment of rubrics – in line with other patients. This has been highlighted several times by Dr. Sverre at 24SJU. We also record that the Minister of Health has been in dialogue, and we look forward to something concrete happening in that area as well. Nor do we understand why the government chooses to overcome the heaviest medical disciplines when they want to investigate whether heroin-assisted treatment can help get those who have tried everything, who may not tolerate methadone or the other substitution drugs, to get away from the pursuit of drugs and from health care. Such a review of the medical profession would never have happened to other patient groups. It is also ethically challenging that we know so little about the effect of treatment offered by the different drug institutions. It surprises the Workers' Party that there is no greater interest in getting more knowledge, for the benefit of patients. It is necessary to require that the quality register now developed and applicable to the Health West must apply to the whole country and be rolled out in parallel with the roll-out into the Health West. There is a very high proportion of private actors in drug treatment, and the quality varies in both public, private and non-profit institutions. At least it should be in everyone's interest to separate out the good ones and cut out those who do not provide good treatment, or who, in many cases, also worsen the health status of Ruspacers. Russ and mental disorders are overrepresented among prisoners. The Labour Party is clear that sick people who commit crimes are to be confronted with civil rather than criminal law measures. We want health care over prison and that it is organised for better health care in prisons and more systematic follow-up after death. With regard to the drug court, we had a goal of getting 100 into the alternative form of settlement, but still it's only 30. So here we need close interaction on competences related to justice and effective action. However, we also receive feedback that housing shortages are one of the challenges, and it is one of the requirements to address this alternative form of treatment, which yields far better results than the equivalent international, but also compared to other Nav interventions. There is a need for more knowledge of the drug field, and there should still be earmarked research resources to build up the quality of drug research. In doing so, I am promoting the proposal that the Labour Party is behind. We do not agree with the main objective of the escalation plan that real user influence should be ensured through free treatment options. We believe it is much more important that the drug users get real user involvement by being entitled to choose their own treatment rather than just choosing a particular institution. To be effective, users need to know about the different treatment providers, and it is again linked to the need to roll out the quality register, which can provide information on what will have an impact — the content of the different treatment services. But we're going to vote for you substantially, so we're going to have an escalating plan, because everybody who's struggling today deserves – both with heavier drug challenges and with alcohol challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e213	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e216	Today, the Stortinget adopts a historic and obliging escalating plan for the drug field – a plan involving a stake of 2.4 billion. kr, mainly to the municipalities, over a five-year period. But just as important as the funds and the economy are the way forward for better drug care, where we are able to meet the major challenges in the field of drugs with renewed and reinforced efforts. We have recognised over the years that we need to be more effective at discovering and helping earlier, and we know that many people experience a small amount of organized service in the municipalities. The way back to society is demanding for many, whether from treatment or from prison. We see that we have challenges with completely primary but very important needs such as housing, work, activity and a meaningful leisure time. Strengthening care is one of the most important promises of the Right to the voters. That's why we reintroduced what the previous government has removed: the rule, called the golden rule, that health businesses should provide for higher growth in their efforts for drug and mental health, individually, than for the somatic disorders. And we reintroduced the earmarking of drugs to the municipalities because we saw that the effort was escalated even though the needs were growing out there as addicts live their lives. There's a hot thread going through the government's Russian policy. First, we increased the budgets for the purchase of 200 more treatment sites at private and non-profit institutions that had a lot of available capacity but did not contribute under the red-green regime. Then we have strengthened the hospital budgets more in our three years than the red-green government did in its eight years – and we have ensured that the rush is prioritised with the golden rule. Recently, the reform of free treatment options has begun to work, the patient reform that gives addicts and mentally ill people the right to choose for themselves where to seek long-term treatment. Overall, our policy solutions deliver very good results. Drug addicts are now receiving more rapid treatment – 17 days shorter waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised treatment, from 61 to 44 days, is an important step in demonstrating that this patient group is a priority. But ruspacers live in a demanding and often life-threatening everyday life. The excess mortality rate is high, and it is totally unacceptable that patients with diabetes or mental illness should have a life expectancy of 20 years less than others. Now that we are able to bring down waiting times, give greater freedom of choice in treatment and actually treat more patients, there is a great demand that we also get on our legs a proper and robust rear guard. The most dangerous periods for a drug addict are just after you finish special treatment. It's one of the main lines of the escalation plan we're adopting today: strengthening the work on post-protection. We give the municipalities funds, and we know that they have many of the tools to create a holistic care system. It's all about getting a addict to find a new foothold. It can't happen in a hospital or an institution, it has to happen in the everyday life where life is to be lived, and where the family might be waiting. This is why we are providing funds and providing important incentives for municipalities to build up their skills and capacity to do the rather heavy but incredibly important job in the community of patients. Russ dependence affects not only the sick but also the family and relatives. Therefore, good care must also be given to relatives in the best possible way. Therefore, it was sad to read the national study on patient satisfaction among patients in multidisciplinary specialised treatment, which shows that half responded that the cooperation with relatives had not been good enough. We are pleased that an overall committee points to the need for a change in culture and a systematic improvement in municipal care. Here, as in all other areas of healthcare, it is essential for good treatment that relatives and the user experience both being affected and being involved in treatment. The escalation plan has an important input area related to early action. The key challenges today are that at all ages we detect drug problems too late, that we lack incentives to promote prevention, and it is particularly demanding that there is an increase in the consumption of alcohol by the elderly. The responsibility and instruments for prevention and early intervention are anchored in more sectors than healthcare: in maternity care, in the health centre, in kindergarten, in school — and not least in the voluntary sector, which does a large part of the work of creating good arenas for drug-free activity. All of these are part of an important network that, coordinated, can contribute a lot to prevention. The escalation plan therefore emphasises a number of efforts from early childhood, which will help to capture and help people with a potential drug problem. In a human and social perspective, it is a hundred times preferable that we succeed in preventing, rather than repairing. The working party calls for the important role of decision-makers and the fight against alcohol dependence. It is important to remember that the Stortinget recently adopted a primary health report where municipal health services and how to work in municipalities are a central element and where teamwork is much more focused. So this escalation plan is not alone, it also rests very safely on the road choices that Stortinget made in the primary health message. In the Committee’s work and during the consultation, particular attention has been paid to women undergoing LAR treatment and pregnancy. We are pleased that the Minister of Health has clearly said that women in the LAR will receive free long-term prevention when starting treatment. And we are pleased that the majority of the Committee proposes that it be made clear and confirmed that women in the LAR should receive thorough information related to pregnancy and special follow-up. We do not support the introduction of a long-term prevention requirement in order to be in the LAR, because we are anxious that it could push some out of absolutely necessary medically assisted rehabilitation. It will not solve the challenge, but may lead to women remaining addicted and without any control related to pregnancy prevention. Many children are also born each year to mothers with severe alcohol problems. It's very worrying. We have seen from the figures that of the women who are being followed up specifically in the context of drug problems in pregnancy, there is an over-representation of women with drug-related problems. This may mean that we do not capture pregnant women with high levels of alcohol-related abuse to a large extent. So, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, government parties today are asking that the government in its work on mental health and drug package processes also take care of the problem associated with better follow-up of pregnant women. Russ challenges affect many – yes, almost all families. There is still a lot of taboo about alcohol and drug abuse, and there are many who are struggling. The Russ-Up Plan is an important part of strengthening the care that takes place out there in our everyday lives, where we live our lives, in our families and in our local environments. In the right we are pleased that the escalation plan has received broad support in the committee, and also in the consultation within the committee, and we believe it is a strength that the committee is so united behind many of the important objectives of the plan. I also want to congratulate the rapporteur, Kjersti Toppe, on a very good work in the Committee on this position. The fact that we are so united behind this is also due to the good work done by the rapporteur. It is a good promise for more coherent and committed care in the years to come that we are so agreed on the most important measures. Now, we all have to make an important effort to ensure that our local politicians, all municipal employees, the entire voluntary sector and all patient organisations out in Kommune-Norway take the staf stick and participate in the important job of arming and strengthening care in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e250	The government has presented a stepping-up plan for the drug field that provides an overview of the main challenges and sets out both short-term and long-term strategies to meet them. The field of drugs and mental health is an area of concern for the government, and therefore extensive efforts are already under way pending this plan. The red-green government came forward after seven years a noise message under the name Look at me! This contained no obligations and none of the recommendations of the Stoltenberg Committee. The cost framework for drug use was extended by 45 million. kr, and some 70 organisations met at the hearing. These organisations were very clear that this was too bad. Already at that time the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party gathered on a number of proposals, including many from the Stoltenberg Committee's proposals. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV voted against all the proposals. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party therefore joined forces for elections on an obliging escalation plan. So the plan is promoted as a proposition, and we're committed to using 2.4 billion. NOK on this to the municipalities. And in addition, it's close to 800 million. SEK for increased treatment in the specialist health service – a total of about 3.2 billion. kr, where close to half are ear-marked substances. The number of drug injectors has shown a stable or slightly downward trend from 2008. The same thing is true of alcohol consumption. So luckily, evolution does not go in the wrong direction. With this plan, we are making arrangements to help even more people in a more correct and holistic way, while looking forward to catching up more at an early stage. The User Plan survey shows that persons between the ages of 18 and 24 are little known and followed up in the service. When young people with drug problems are first discovered, many have already developed a major drug problem. Here the municipalities have a job to do. The national study on patient satisfaction among patients in multidisciplinary specialised treatment shows that almost half responded that the cooperation with relatives had not been good enough. 14 pst. replied that they had little or no influence on the treatment, and only 13 pst. was registered at individual level. This shows that we have major challenges in relation to the lack of user involvement, related cooperation and monitoring. And it makes a great need for a cultural change in services visible. I would like to underline the importance of emphasising the user's and family's own experience and competence when designing the offer. The progress party has always been concerned with the lack of interaction between the specialist health service and the municipalities, and this has been the main reason why we wanted the state to finance the whole chain. Since the funding mechanism is as it is, it is important to refer to the measures we took, among other things. in the primary health notification. Cooperation between municipalities and hospitals on overall and good treatment processes and the exchange of skills is an essential factor in success. Patients and users need coherent, comprehensive and accessible help services. In order to achieve this, we need a large growth and development of municipal drug supply, and cooperation between municipal health services, Nav and specialist health services is working. It is unacceptable that many municipalities do not take decisions on the services, so that patients do not have the right to complain. It is gratifying that the average waiting time for initiation of treatment is now reduced significantly, and the aim now is for everyone to have the opportunity to experience a continuous offer from detoxification, treatment and aftercare and follow-up with housing, work and activity. Lack of activity and work for people with problems is a major problem. It is obvious that many municipalities are served with closer cooperation with ideal and voluntary actors. Activity must be an integral part of a treatment course. These include: RIO pointed to during the consultation, the risk of overdose after treatment is too high, and so is the number of reintroductions. Poverty, isolation, loneliness and lack of networking and belonging are factors that are caused by, lead, maintain and enhance drug problems and mental problems. Users who have taken part in multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment often refer to this as one of the reasons for relapse. Therefore, work and activity have been given a central place in the message. All parties agree that the ban on drugs, including possession and use, should be maintained on the basis of general prevention considerations and as an instrument to enable early intervention. And all parties are supporting the use of alternative criminal responses. The escalation plan facilitates more good health measures rather than prison stays and more interventions during prison stays. This applies, inter alia, to: through the establishment and continuation of measures such as drug programmes with judicial control, juvenile and youth follow-up, §12-soning, health and care services in prison, detoxification in prison, detoxification in prison, detention centres and multidisciplinary specialised treatment in prison according to the Stifender model. To be completely honest, it's almost a little crazy to see everything we're agreeing on now, given that everything we promoted three years ago was voted down. The party is proud that the plan has been drawn up together with all stakeholders, where user involvement has been the focus, which was clearly expressed during the hearing. The feedback was very good, but also clear: spend the large amount of money on what is most important, and on what we know is most sought after. It's not just about getting restless, it's about staying free and getting a life that feels good and meaningful. It requires all the pieces to be put in place. Medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, has given many significantly better living conditions. But we've known for years that there is a need to strengthen the follow-up of the individual LAR patient. Now we deliver on this. In the case of housing, work and activities, and the possibility to descend or terminate treatment in LAR. Now all parties support the establishment of good and safe arrangements to enable such stepping down and closure. There have been some negative reports of drug leakage distributed in the LAR. Many have called for stricter controls and frequent pick-ups. The Progress Party is not in favour of collective punishment and believes that there is a lack of follow-up and involvement that makes some people unresponsive to the system represented by the LAR. A lot of people pick up their medicine and take it as agreed, and live their lives with both children and jobs, and that's what they're going to do. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to punish those who suddenly change the pick-up time and not least the pick-up place, without considering the negative impact this has on the individual. Up to two hours on a bus one way every day to pick up their medicine should have been prohibited. Some people have to tighten up. This is about individuals who try to stay on their legs, and then you also have to give them a fair chance to succeed. National tariffs for the supply of drugs in LAR have been discussed for 10 years. At that time a sample was set down, which concluded by recommending this. This ended up in the red-green drawer. Therefore, in connection with the work on the Ruplan, I again raised this issue. The Health and Welfare Committee has now also concluded that we want national tariffs. At the Committee’s hearing, pregnant women and drug users received a lot of attention. It is clear that the committee has listened, and we have wanted to stand together here. We believe that early interventions aimed at pregnant women using drugs must be given special attention, and it is important to strengthen efforts to inform and motivate women to abstain from drugs during pregnancy. An overall committee considers that there is sufficient knowledge of the adverse effects of alcohol on the foetus to consider offering free contraception to all women with a serious drug problem and suggests it. It has long been such that current guidelines recommend that women who are in LAR and become pregnant should continue in LAR. The progress party has long disagreed with this, and there was clear consultation input from, among others. The Children’s Ombudsman, the Children’s Medical Association and the Norwegian midwife’s association that pregnancy and LAR treatment should be avoided in the interests of the child. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee asks the government to ensure that all women of reproductive age who are to start up in LAR are thoroughly informed about LAR treatment and pregnancy, and are not advised to become pregnant. The Progress Party calls for the Health Directorate to keep up-to-date in this area at all times and for the guidelines to be consistent with the knowledge base at all times, on the basis that the best interests of the child must always be given priority. Offering free contraception to women in the LAR is already there, but I know that not everyone is given this information. A single committee is behind a proposal asking for a simple and unbureaucratic system to ensure that women receive free long-term prevention at LAR start-up. The Minister of Health has commissioned the Directorate of Health to draw up proposals for package courses for mental health and drug use. A majority ask the government to ensure that intoxication and pregnancy are also assessed with their own package. In that case, the package course should include several measures that can be taken in order to improve the care of the pregnant woman and not least her child. I would also like to comment on the fact that more and more older people drink alcohol and that they drink more than before. It is important that municipalities carry this with them and think about prevention. Increased age can easily lead to increased use of drugs, solitude and alcohol. Each of these things are debilitating in health, together they can do a lot of damage. Preventive home visits should also focus on this issue. The ramp-up plan has some overall objectives. It shall contribute to the provision of an appropriate place for drug addicts to live and a contribution of 500 million is granted. kr. We need to increase the number of response sites by 500 and develop and increase the use of alternative criminal responses and methods of criminal enforcement. In addition, we will open reception centres in the largest cities and provide for increased development and outreach treatment models by model of ACT teams and others, such as: LASSO and the Gate Hospital. And finally, we're going to have increased competence on drug and addiction issues in all sectors. Free treatment choice is an important part of the escalation plan. This provides increased user involvement and self-incentive, and private and non-profit actors contribute to quality work and diversity. In order to ensure real user involvement, the ‘free treatment choice’ website shall be extended and improved so that patients can choose from a number of objective criteria. For the Progress Party, the continuous process without waiting time between detoxification, treatment and good aftercare has been the most important thing to get in place, and we therefore welcome the proposal in the escalation plan to assess a 24-hour treatment guarantee, which ensures that Ruspacers are given an hour to outpatient treatment within 24 hours of detoxification. The goal must be that we get this in place, too, when the care of all kinds of people is better developed. It is very likely that the project Nalokson nosespray has saved lives, and I am glad that this government has got this in place. The Progress Party welcomes the extension of this project by several cities. In connection with the treatment of the future’s primary health service by the Storting, a majority decided to impose the obligation to pay out-of-print patients in mental health protection and the TSB. It is therefore important that local authorities now develop the necessary capacity and competence in their services in order to be able to provide an adequate range of services. In this context, it will be necessary for the specialist health service and the municipality to draw up a treatment and follow-up plan before the obligation to pay is imposed. Daily services for immediate help must also include people with mental health and drug problems. It is unacceptable for people with drug problems or mental health problems to remain in institutions for a long time after they have been treated. Further waiting for the introduction of remedies to remedy this situation could contribute to the non-priority of mental health and drug services in municipalities. Being printed out without there being anything and someone taking care of after protection is also unsustainable and cannot continue. The municipalities have long been warned that such a liability will be imposed, and by introducing the mental health and drug system, we will help to equalise these disciplines with somatics, including in municipal priorities. The Action Plan emphasises that social entrepreneurs and actors in the voluntary and non-profit sector should be able to contribute to increasing the number of drug problems at work, and that separate grant schemes are established – in addition to the newly created scheme of Work-Preparing Training and the TULT project, an indefinite wage subsidy, which was made permanent from 1 January 2016. The escalation plan shall also contribute to the establishment of several user-led centres and actions in cooperation with user and related organisations. The relevant policy and care of relatives should also be improved, and I refer to the programme for an active and forward-looking policy of relatives 2014-2020, as well as to a proposal for enhanced family support in the Health and Welfare Act at the hearing. It is very good to say about the plan, as it addresses both large and small issues that we have been confronted with over very, very many years. I am proud and happy that I have been allowed to participate in shaping this important plan. Now it is up to the municipalities and employees to follow the good intentions, demands and hopes of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e351	Having a drug problem challenges. It challenges the one who has the problem, and not least all those who live with and around the one who has the problem. Life for too many is going down on the day the Russians take over – not least, children living in such an environment will experience this as a demanding thing. That's why I and the Christian People's Party are incredibly happy with this plan and for the priority of money, which shows will. It's about lifting those who live in hiding, or being hidden in a family, in a system or in a society. No one is in a torch train for this patient group. We, as politicians and treatment institutions, must never lose sight of the fact that it must actually be an objective that those who have been living under intoxication must be allowed to have a sense of independence as a goal. Having a life near a drug addict, one knows how important it is for this person actually to be allowed to participate in and decide in his or her own life, be allowed to participate in and determine where one believes one can get help. Therefore, freedom of treatment for this group becomes especially important, believes the Christian People's Party. It must be that on the day one realizes that a person wants to get help with the problem, a few people must be allowed to attend and choose treatment — and the treatment must be ready. Anyone struggling with a drug problem can't wait five weeks. One needs help now. Here we have to be willing to use all the good forces and the ideal offers that show good results, and that may have a practice different from what has been done in public. What we see is that patients who have wanted a different offer have often had no. We have to be willing to use the ideal actors that actually refer to quality, results and subjects. We can only look at the Borgestad Clinic, which has driven half the price of the public and yet has had incredibly good results. We as society and we as politicians have to be willing to let patients join in and choose, and we have to make use of the ideal sector. At the same time, we need to be willing to ensure that those who are developing a drug problem are caught and helped early – whether we see it in a delivery situation in kindergarten, that there is a young mother who is struggling, or we see it in high school, that there are some young people who are going on the outside, or we see it in working life, a absence that we know is great because of drugs. Then it's no use saying, "We'll wait and see if it goes over." It's about doing something here and now. The Christian People's Party is clear that we must have a treatment system that is actually linked. It must not be that the thick wallet gets help first. Prevention, treatment and after-care must be closely linked. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has also been concerned that treatment must also include the innocent party. It has also been called for by the Christian People's Party, because being born with abstinence is an innocent experience that children should be outside and not experience. That's why the Christian People's Party says we should use good, ideal actors together with the public, sew together an offer that actually fits the individual. With this I will address the proposals on which the Christian People's Party stands alone, and the proposals on which we agree with others. We're happy with the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e366	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e369	I want to start with a patient group that has 20 years shorter life expectancy than others. It says a lot about what priorities we've done over generations. No patient experiences a course of treatment with a similar number of swing doors. It is demanding to be sick in such a service. If we imagine that one flight between Oslo and Bergen falls per year, it shows the number of overdoses in Norway per year – a place between 250 and 280 dies each year in Norway. We had not accepted that a plane fell down every year. That is why this plan is a symbolically important plan. It enhances the dignity of this patient group. For the first time, there is a concrete escalation plan – 2.4 billion. kr over five years, which for some may be small, but that's a big sum. There is much to be done, and there is no more capacity than that money can hardly be put into circulation, as reality is today. But a great deal of praise to the government parties and the Christian People's Party for prioritising such a plan, and for the Left, we insist on saying that we are the driver when drug policies and campaigns are to be pursued. Yes, there may be small, symbolic bets, such as the court program, the LASSO project or the 24-hour treatment guarantee, but in sum, this is what's driving us forward. When we see what's happening internationally, we see that in this policy area we have a way to go to Norway, and that's today we really should be discussing community reform. This is an opportunity to look at the challenges facing Norwegian municipalities. In Oppland, there were ten overdose deaths in 2015 – this is not a major urban phenomenon alone, although Oslo and Bergen have a large number of overdose deaths. Many municipalities out there are struggling, many are recruited, and there is a great need for a more coherent treatment course. The escalation plan is a time gap in the acceptance of social policies in the field of drug care, and that is why it is so important that we strengthen the municipalities and enable them to take early action. It is the youth health station, which is closed all summer, that needs to be strengthened, and more health workers are needed to see the young who are struggling. Half of Norwegian municipalities today do not have a municipal psychologist. We face major challenges in organising and recruiting capacities and competences for this sector, and it is at an early stage that you have the most to pick up, so that not so many countries enter a specialised treatment service. I miss that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party dare to discuss how to organise this early effort to prevent and give more people an opportunity to master life. This plan is also important because it puts competence in the system. UserPlan is being launched as a very central tool, and only here do many Norwegian municipalities have a major challenge in putting these competences and systems into use. But also in the specialist care services, we are facing a great deal of upswing. This is a research-poor sector, and therefore the Left promotes a proposal that the Golden Rule should also include research and innovation. I note that it is too early now, but as usual, we are making proposals that can strengthen the competence of this sector. Russ medicine needs to be put more clearly on the map, we need to recruit more drugs, there needs to be better follow-up of LAR patients, and we need to provide more competence related to physical activity. User involvement is also promoted in this plan as fully central. UserPlan is important there, but also the users-controlled patients, free treatment choices and also more user-controlled sites, outpatient teams and outpatient follow-up make users a major part of the resources to refresh patients. I take up the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e391	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e394	The government has presented a plan with three main areas of activity: early response, treatment and aftercare. From an SV perspective, the plan contains many sensible measures, but there are also some significant gaps. And then we'll see if I can solve any of the challenges that we see in this document. I can start with a political watering. When people are sick or suffer, it is the duty of society to use the very best knowledge available to help. It is the responsibility of society to ensure that the most possible lives are safe and good and to help each one realize as much of his potential as possible as human beings. To achieve this, service providers need to establish cooperation with each one who needs help and support. That's the starting point. The noise field in Norway is often of high quality. However, there are clear challenges when it comes to interaction between treatment levels, capacity both in the first and second line services and municipalities that lack housing and meaningful activity. The most important thing to help more people is to invest more in different forms of treatment provision, to reduce waiting time and to improve cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services, between health services and social services, and between drug treatment and healthcare psychiatry. Thus, during this ageing period SV has previously proposed a comprehensive escalating plan for more resources in general to the drug field and a national commitment for better aftercare. We don't meet – not surprisingly, maybe – the government doesn't pay any particular attention to our proposals for action. But extra resources are not needed. We have also called for new thinking, broadening the thinking about the treatment methods, and thinking about new developments in prevention. We believe this field needs a more knowledge-based approach to which treatment methods are accepted, not political over-management of professionals. An example of the opposite was the Minister of Care, Bent Höie, who rejected attempts to extend the treatment methods and did not even deal with a much-mentioned application from Health Bergen. In the rush debate, professional discussions are easily politicised or the subject of water retention. In no other field than health care, a government council or political party will go in to decide that a medicinal product is not morally or politically acceptable. It has been opposed in drug policy, and there is a major political debate on issues that are essentially purely medical. This violation of my SV's habit should also apply to the criminalisation of addicts. Drug addiction has for too long been seen as more a crime than a disease. If we are to be able to make a proper offer, as a society, we must stop treating drug addicts as criminals. The follow-up programme Early Out in Bergen is one of several examples of treatment rather than punishment providing good results. The results were very promising, and the conversion of the work has not resulted in additional costs for any of the cooperating parties. It is important that there is a wide range of drug treatment in Norway, which is because people who need help have very different needs. Both public and private supply is needed, and we have previously proposed better and more robust framework conditions for non-profit actors by eliminating the use of drug supply. Further: Safe lives need, require, secure places to live. For drug addicts, this is very important. Stability in life offers better opportunities both before and after treatment. Strengthening the work of providing drug-dependent safe housing in the normal environment strengthens the potential for a healthier and possibly drug-free life. It is also a task for the community to contribute directly to the least possible harm for those who use drugs. And here, too, we have to think about something new. It includes the provision of user equipment, advice, guidance on use and the prioritisation of street-based interventions for drug addicts. We are well aware of the debate on the use of syringes. SV will therefore support the proposal No. 2-7 and Proposals Nos. 11–15. I'll end up with a recital. Early effort is very good, and it kind of comes in as the first point of this plan. But, as I can read between the lines in the committee's setting, the emphasis on the early work of the committee is considerably greater than that of the government. Only to take a very important part in this: school health services and health centres have not been given the central role in the plan, but much more emphasis has been placed on the committee. I hope that the government will take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e413	I would like to thank the Health and Care Committee for a very thorough work on setting up the Plan of Action for the field of drugs. I hope that the proposition and the debate today can join in strengthening the intention that the drug reform will be fulfilled. I am pleased with the broad political support given to the main lines of the proposition, which is also reflected in the debate today. Of course, I would particularly like to thank the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with which we had an early discussion, and where we clarified the financial framework and the broad lines of the escalation plan before it was presented by the government. This has been a very important matter for the government parties and the cooperation parties, and this was also one of the first clear promises made by the four party leaders before the 2013 elections. The plan has been developed together with users and relatives, the professional environments and their own advice, and this has been an invaluable work on the plan. The four party leaders were also present at the first big recording meeting of the plan just to stress that this is an important joint project for the four parties and the entire government. I have noticed that the Committee has been particularly concerned with children born to women in the LAR, and it is now a pleasure to say that the Research Council has provided funding for projects that monitor mental health and adaptation in school age for children born to women in the LAR, and for women themselves, and that a number of actions, as mentioned earlier in the debate, will now be launched against this group. We have undoubtedly seen positive developments in the field of drugs in recent years. Many people get good help, and that's good, but we have big challenges that haven't been solved. The most obvious evidence of this is that drug addicts and people with major mental health challenges have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than that of the general population. It is, as the representative Kjenseth said, a result of many years of lack of prioritisation of this group, and – I would also say – systematic discrimination against people with drug addiction in our society. We need a renewed and reinforced effort in the drugs field. We have to get better at discovering and helping earlier. Many people are experiencing a fragmented and poorly organised offer, and the offer of post-protection and follow-up is still defective. In order to succeed in these areas, we have promoted this escalation plan as a separate proposition. The framework for the work is 2.4 billion. kr for the period 2016-2020. In addition, the growth of multidisciplinary specialised treatment is ensured by the Golden Rule. We have proposed that attention be given to those who are developing, or who have already established, a drug problem. The main effort is directed towards the municipal sector. The pure prevention work is enshrined in the Public Health Communication, to which the Stortinget has previously joined. The escalation plan pays particular attention to three areas of action: early response, treatment and after-care/follow-up service. An early intervention theme is how to capture and help those at risk of developing drug problems. Good growth conditions, physical activity and participation in sport and other non-governmental organisations, strengthening the social network and promoting quality of life are important there. Here, the public health perspective is crucial. In addition, early efforts at all stages of life are important: for pregnant women, for families, children and young people through kindergarten, school, health centre and school health services, which will be strengthened by more than 600 million. for young people through well-coordinated services, for students and workers, inter alia, by the government and the majority parties. through good guidelines for alcohol use, competence for talking about drugs or gambling problems, and for the elderly, including: by improving the competence of the health and care services. The keyword is to be able to identify and manage the problems as early as possible. The Health Directorate is following up and reviewing the guide on early intervention with other actors. The goal is a brief guide with good recommendations for the municipalities. In terms of treatment, there is a need for diversity in the supply of drug addicts. We have to have good capacity, and the waiting times have to go down. The government has strengthened its capacity by purchasing approx. 200 new daily places by private NPISHs. We now see that the waiting time for drug treatment has fallen by nine days since March 2015 to 34 days now in March 2016. In November, we introduced free treatment choices in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment, so that drug addicts can receive even faster help and greater diversity in treatment provision. Services must be of good quality. Therefore, a national quality register and multidisciplinary specialised treatment should be introduced throughout the country in 2017. Health West is already well under way. After-shave protection is one of the areas that was clearly identified in the recording meetings we've had. Therefore, the focus is also on post-closure and follow-up services in the Escalation Plan. For many addicts, the real job begins after treatment, but without housing, meaningful activities and good social networking is the way back to the rush and the old comrades often very short. That is why we have committed ourselves to cross-sectoral efforts over the next few years, among other things. 500 million. For housing. We need to increase the number of places of action, and we also introduce the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print in order to ensure a seamless transition from treatment to community services that oblige municipalities and specialist health services to establish joint plans for the addict when treatment is over and one should return to housing, work and activity. We promised an escalation plan that covers the entire drug field – from prevention to after-care, from housing to work. After two in government, we have now delivered this plan together with our cooperation parties, and I am very pleased that it has also received such broad support in Stortinget. But here we've done a little bit like Ingrid Espelid Hovig: we've got a little juxtaposition, because in reality the escalation plan is already going on. The first year is 2016, and therefore, in the adopted budget for 2016, it is the first real escalation in this area, which is in reality above the level at which one has to comply with the commitment to use EUR 2,4 billion. kr more at the end of 2020 than one did in 2015. But now it's important that we all also do a good job against the municipalities, against the voluntary non-profit sector, which has to seize this opportunity, and that the municipalities spend the money they're now getting, actually building up the offer for this group, because there's a lot to do here. There is also a national strategy to prevent overdose deaths now working in the municipalities with the highest number of overdose deaths. There we have results that are far too bad. So I'm also concerned that this escalation plan spends the big money on what we know works, in the areas that the addicts, their organisations and the professional community have pointed to are the major challenges. I believe that in the political debate on the offer of drug addicts in Norway, unfortunately, much attention has been paid to the ideological, very divisive issues that do not matter to very many, and it has taken the attention of what is the big, heavy job that is just in this escalation plan, to give drug addicts a good, coherent offer, a great variety of offers, and where, of course, the health perspective is what should be the comprehensive perspective of all the help we provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e446	First: It is gratifying that the Workers' Party will have an impact on the quality register, that the Minister has listened to it, and that it will be rolled out in 2017. Then it's allowed to try the next case, and it's about new research on both mental health protection and drugs, where you don't, as in the past, first treat and then start adapting and living, but parallel treatment is linked to being in a housing situation and in an activity and in work. However, this poses quite major challenges, especially those related to rubrics, which fluctuate in both health and motivation for treatment. You need very close interaction between the different levels. So the question is whether the Minister of Health could imagine carrying out experiments in the big cities to look at models in order to get this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e453	Firstly, it is not the Workers' Party that has been made aware of the establishment of a quality register for the drug field. It is a very good initiative that was taken by the professional community in the Health West, and which I seized very quickly after I had become Minister of Health and Care, to get a clear plan for the development of more quality records in the field of drugs and mental health. The working party seems to have all the way that this is something that is coming. But that the Workers' Party is promoting proposals to create the impression that they're promoting something that the government is already working on, that's a well-known strategy. With regard to the second proposal, so yes, it is only a pity that we do not have the Workers' Party's support in this regard, because the Workers' Party voted against the proposal to impose the obligation to pay for ready-to-print patients in the field of drugs and mental health. It is not about initiating attempts at this, but about implementing it throughout the country and ensuring binding cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e460	I think the Council of State misunderstood what was the content of the question. I didn't say it was we who invented quality records, we didn't get the committee with us on it, but at least now we got the Minister of Health with us on it. But I still choose to use the time for question number. 2, and there is a record of children born with abstinence. I have spoken several times with Reigstad, a pediatrician at the newborn ward Health Bergen. They cooperate with the children's psychiatric department, with the drug department, and have seen children born with great abstinence every year. Alcohol is more dangerous than much of the other stuff they wear in terms of negative effects on children. Today, children are followed up until they are six years old. In the hearing, the Children’s Medical Association and several others came up with new research findings that show that there are consequences for the child even in school age. It is good that research is now being invested, but will the Minister also bet on a national register for children born with abstinence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e467	When the majority of the committee, i.e. the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, do not support the Workers' Party's proposal to establish national quality registers in multi-disciplinary specialised treatment, it is simply about knowing the same thing that the Workers' Party knows that this is coming. One does not support proposals for work already in progress, just to create the impression that the government is not doing anything in this area. I think that a bit of the debate and the contributions from both the SV and the Workers' Party today are a bit impressed. One creates the impression that things that you're very involved in -- that's very good, that I totally agree with -- are things that don't happen. But those are the very things that are happening now, and unfortunately have not happened before. As far as the question is concerned, the establishment of a medical quality register is an initiative from the professional community itself. If one develops it, it meets the requirements, the possibility of it is followed up. In addition, as I was talking about, the Research Council has now granted 18.5 million. SEK for a four-year research project for just born to mothers in LAR.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e474	I have a question about a matter that has been known in the media, that addicts in Oslo and Bergen have been fined for 48 million in the last five years. kr. The fines are up to NOK 10000 each. A professor of law at the University of Bergen said to the NRK that he believes the police are using illegal methods, especially the widespread use of deportation of people in the open drug environment. This is a matter that I have reacted to. The Minister of Justice has said that this is a good practice, and I am wondering how the Minister of Health behaves towards it in my view the aggressive way that the police use, and at all events what the Minister of Health thinks about this fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e481	The Advocate General has shown that he is not to use a fine in such a way that, for example: is systematically dependent on those who have extensive problems, as has been suggested. There are leaders that the police have received. When it comes to expulsion, it's a slightly more complicated question, because when we look at e.g. the work done in Bergen to break down the environment established in Nygårdsparken, and the work also done in Oslo, is one of the means used to provide a better offer. But then it's important that it happens in a context where one also has other alternative offers, for example. the reception centre and such and that it is not taken as a unilateral measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e488	I have another question, when I have the opportunity: It was shown to the Stoltenberg selection, which came before the previous staging message, and one of the suggestions there was to abolish the property of addicts. The central party has a proposal today where we ask the government to consider coming back with a matter about it. The rest of the Size conduit is not supported. I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health about how he views this with the use of health care assets for those who have a heavy dependence on alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e498	We have e.g. in connection with that we increased the fee for a lack of attendance, said that one should screen this group. But then it is based on a discretionary judgement in healthcare. Having a general system of waivers on the basis of a drug addiction, I am not sure that would be the most appropriate use of the resources, because this is also a matter of resource use. It is not that all addicts are not at work and do not have the opportunity to pay for excesses when they receive health care assistance. So what I think we now have to look at – and we already do – is to expand low-threshold services that when the most vulnerable groups, where one also has many good free offers, instead of saying that if one is addicted to addiction, one by definition is a person who cannot pay normal proportions. I think that would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e505	The initiative in the municipalities is a major part of this plan. 500 new homes have been outlined in the next few years, and it's incredibly important. Several of us have been involved in adopting housing social plans in the municipalities, perhaps several times, without necessarily building homes for this target group. Sarpsborg is one of the municipalities that has a three-part housing policy. They build and establish container or sample dwellings for those who are not motivated by detoxification. They have homes for those who are being treated, and they have their own homes for those who are detoxified. But we see few examples of this. How will the Council of State ensure that several municipalities acquire such a differentiated housing plan and actually start building homes over the five years that we have ambitions for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e514	This is an area on which we work closely with the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is responsible for housing policy. This is why the government has created a social housing strategy, where what the representative is now describing is part of it – having a differentiated offer to different groups. Of course, it will also depend on us following up the Escalation Plan when it comes to donating money to this area. It is also important to consider that housing is not only about the physical environment, but also about filling the dwellings with content, where it is necessary, in order to help the individual to be able to live. I fully agree that there is a need for diversity and differentiated housing, as one here draws up, but it is part of the government's social housing strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e521	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e524	The working party believes that rubrics are as important as heart patients. The government's escalating plan for the drug field is too poor on documentation and knowledge. Noise treatment, in line with other types of treatment, must use knowledge-based methods. No one would give heart patients treatment that had not been shown to be effective. Today, the best available knowledge is of low quality. There are, for example: not ensure the number of returnees to drug treatment once or more. In 2014, two out of three people who were admitted to drug treatment said they had been admitted earlier. One in three rubrics returns for treatment within one year of printing. There is every reason to believe that resources used to treat drug addicts can be better used. Without knowing for sure what the effect is, there's a great danger that we're wasting the time and the forces and the community's money on treatment that doesn't work. While we are waiting for quality indicators to be applied to the drug field, we need to provide a knowledge gap in the field. People with drug problems are like other patients: different. As with other diseases, some will need support a short time after treatment, while others will need to support their lives out. The working party wants people with drug problems to be offered a personalised and holistic course of treatment – a tailor-made treatment scheme where it is possible to change the form of treatment along the way and where users themselves have a decisive word in mind. It should be easy to return to treatment for shorter periods if necessary. The doctors must be able to suggest the treatment they think is best for the patient, and therefore we want to start a heroin-assisted treatment trial if the doctor believes it is best for the patient. We're never going to give up people with drug addiction. Many people with drug problems say that they want ordinary, paid work — not trial, clarification or sheltered measures. Patients themselves want clear demands. Today's practice is old-fashioned. The working party wants the planning of work and housing to start on the day the patient starts treatment. The working party will make individual job support available to drug addicts across the country. Noise problems do not occur suddenly one day. They also do not end on the day of treatment. Too many people come from treatment or prison without having a home or job to go to. Then the way back to rush is very short. Many people with drug problems say they want ordinary, paid work — not trial, clarification or sheltered measures. Project that Job first tells you about very good results. Users apply for jobs according to their own interests and skills, and Nav follows up the employee and employer without a deadline. Dissemination of regular jobs is also cheaper than response sites. Persons with drug problems are different and have different housing needs. Municipalities should be encouraged to establish variable housing solutions with different levels of auxiliaries support, inspired, for example. care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e545	Alcohol and drug abuse are associated with high morbidity and mortality. Not least, there are many personal and family tragedies in the wake of abuse. Drug overdose deaths now exceed traffic deaths, and this has been pointed out here before 2013 figures show that 234 deaths from overdose — 234 deaths for many. Most recently on the NRC news today, we hear that the police are warning about new drugs that are being used by young people in Tromsø – that is worrying. It is incredibly important to have a stepping-up plan with elements of prevention, treatment and not least good follow-up protection and follow-up to those who have been through active treatment. The framework for the work is 2.4 billion. kr for the period 2016-2020. In addition, the growth of multidisciplinary specialised treatment is ensured by the Golden Rule. The government has focused its efforts on those who are developing a drug problem or who already have an established drug problem. The main effort is directed towards the municipal sector. It's a pleasure. Very many municipalities will be pleased with the measures proposed in the proposal and also with the measures proposed by the Committee, including: an assessment of – as the Ministry will now do – that women with serious drug problems will be offered free of charge of long-term prevention. As many people here have pointed out, there is a lack of good housing, of work opportunities and not least of follow-up plans. That is why this plan is coming. There is a lack of monitoring of the need for back-up protection both in the physical and mental fields. People with serious drug problems and mental problems are currently receiving far too little coherent and coordinated services. Contributing to drug addicts getting a suitable place to live may be one of the most important things we do. Equally important, we may be given action places for those with disabilities, open reception centres in the largest municipalities and the development of outreach treatment teams. This is requested. The critical phase is after being discharged from treatment. Often you don't have a place to live, you may be placed in a cabin where it's difficult to build social relationships, and you can easily get in touch with former comrades and end up in a drug environment. The development of skills across the municipal sector is important. Competence is also about being able to cooperate, and cooperation between Nav, the specialist health service and the community health service must work better. We hear stories about municipalities that do not take decisions on the services the user should have – the consequence of this is that the user loses the right to complain. A unanimous committee agrees that priority should be given to the detection and monitoring of drug problems in municipalities as well as in somatic hospital wards. We need more knowledge about the elderly and the drug, this is an increasing problem. It is important to put in place more psychologists in the municipalities. We are facing a very big challenge here with the local map that is today. This is one of the reasons why a community reform focusing on welfare services for users, including: the most vulnerable, is one of the most important things we have to do. We also need more knowledge about the effect of treatment on the drug field – what works, and what doesn’t work? It's a pleasure that we're now getting a new specialty in drugs and addiction, it's been in demand for a long time, and I think that's going to benefit a lot of people. The Committee also supports the establishment of a national quality register for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, and we are also concerned that more money should be provided for research into drug addiction and addiction. However, it does not help with registers and indicators; it is important that the treatment is done where it is to be done in the municipalities. With this plan, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left deliver their promise to bet on the drug field. In particular, the grant is multi-site and the waiting time has decreased, part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e569	I want to record some threads from the debate – first to the place of alcohol in a drug plan. The Labour Party honestly believes that it is unusually important that alcohol should be given the place of the disease burden it creates, and because it is a legal drug — it is a large majority that dominates its consumption of alcohol, but it is also a large minority that do not. It is challenging for the decision-makers to address this, for they should be on the offer page in relation to the patient, and this is shameful, taboo. They need to find good tools for getting a dialogue on the disease picture to see if it might be related to alcohol consumption. There is clearly also disagreement — it has always been in the Committee — about the extent to which alcohol is an increasing problem or not. We are fully aware that today's young people drink less than before. That's very good. But at the same time, women drink more, and so do older people. In addition, municipalities have too little overview of the local challenges related to drug use and alcohol consumption in their municipality. The user plan has been an unusually good tool – at least in the municipalities I have asked that I have used it, and it is over 200. I haven't been to 200 municipalities, but where I asked, they think it's time they got that tool, both to get an overview of the local challenges and also to see the effect of what works. Now I do not know if I dare to suggest that this should be rolled out. Perhaps it has already been decided to roll it out and apply to all municipalities — for people with drug problems are everywhere, and from the Storting it is important that everyone is seen and followed up in the right way. There is a need for increased funds to succeed. 2.4 B.C.E. kr over four years sounds a lot. There's a little disagreement about how much money should be earmarked or not, but the most important thing is that this money comes to those who need it, and where they give the best effect. We're going to follow this along the way. There are two areas where the funds have been earmarked until today, and we're a little bit unsure whether that's right. That's the municipal grant. One thing is to earmark it directly in relation to how the municipalities use it, but when they have to apply for the funds from the County, there is a lot of bureaucracy, part-time employees and challenges in building up their skills. That's at least the feedback we get from Bergen, which gets 21 million each year. kr, but no possibility of building up competence with full-time employees, as they wish. The same applies to specialist health services. When you got 200 new seats, Health Bergen was required to buy them from private and non-profit companies, with the result that the Floen collective, which I had before, is a public offer, has to reduce its offer. Similarly, they have a very tight framework for providing a good LAR offer. The bidding system is challenging, and the Workers' Party has been clear that we see the positive effect of new treatment provision, but also the negative effect of preventing the exchange of knowledge and skills, for which there is a great need in drug treatment. We are also uncertain whether current contracts are a good tool. We understand the intention of building up competence over time, but the experience of the Borgestadklinik – as with David and Goliath – is not just positive. It is difficult to find good negotiating platforms between such a strong player as Health South-East and the Borgestadklinik, who has really developed new offers, and get a reasonable payment that corresponds to the quality they offer. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that I find it a little sad to hear that the most vulnerable and debilitated drug addicts are described as a patient group that should not be given priority, because this is what it is all about when it comes to heroin-assisted treatment trials. It's at least the feedback we've received from the drug professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e590	I take the floor because I have wondered a little about what I have heard in the debate here today, where more people believe that rubrics with free treatment choices have for the first time been given the opportunity to choose a treatment site. That's not right. That right has been in line with other specialist healthcare patients from 2001, when free hospital choice was introduced. Based on the new regulation on free treatment options, as far as two small drug institutions — both located in the West — wish to provide services to drug users within the free treatment system are authorised. None of the big drug organizations have signed up for that scheme, as far as I know. While both of these institutions may provide good drug treatment, it is strange that they should be integrated into a system that does not fully ensure vital cooperation between all service providers in this sector. These treatment sites could easily be offered by healthcare establishments, in line with the other private operators and services providers in the care of drug users. They could thus be in a completely different context with public drug treatment than with the free choice of treatment. The free choice of treatment, with those who come under that regulation, is based only on an authorisation in the Health Directorate, and they do not have an agreement with health companies. I want to repeat what Mr. Grung said in his introduction: Ruspacers need, is real user involvement throughout the patient process, both what should be early efforts, treatment in the specialist healthcare service and not least in the rehabilitation afterwards. Talking about free treatment choices, which rather break up and fragment the treatment, giving increased user choice, is, in the view of the Workers' Party, simply a story that cannot stand to be tried in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e599	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e602	I would like to say that I am pleased that there has been a lot of focus on alcohol both in the text of the proposal and in the debate here, and there has not been as much focus on all the substance debates in the past. So I think that's a good progress. I have a comment on what has been said in the debate. It was shown to the report from the Stoltenberg Selection, and that we red-green didn't include any of those proposals in that big message. Then I would say that it is inaccurate to claim. I know that there were direct concrete proposals at the time, but we had backed up a lot of what the Stoltenberg committee came with, in the message itself. There were some things that we disagreed about at the time, for example. that the whole of Russorg was supposed to be state-owned, so it didn't work out, and I can see that it's not taken care of now either. Then I also thought that it is natural that a big message came – this is a stepping-up plan – and I see that there is a lot in this escalation plan that is actually based on the principles and what was revealed in the big message. Among other things, a further builds on the overdose strategy that came with the message, rather than building on the speciality – that drug medicine – that came with the message Ein also builds on the fact that it should be a prohibition on using and possession of doping drugs, which came with that big message in 2012, it was well. Then I register that one does not take up what the Stoltenberg Committee also suggested, simply to do something about the property, and I also heard the Council's response. That's what I thought we should discuss, not for everyone with addiction to alcohol, but for those with severe addiction to alcohol. That was also my question to the minister. I hope we can take that up again in the priority debate. So it's said something about the leakage of LAR medicine. That's an area I don't think we should trivialize. We know that two years ago it was reported that there were as many overdoses in Norway of LAR drugs as heroin. It is a serious situation, and I think it is striking that no proposal No. 7 can get multiples, where the Central Party and the Christian People's Party ask the government to introduce a low rate for the supply of LAR medicine when there is, after all, an apparent consensus about this in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e616	There are some paradoxes in the debate and in the vote. The working party talks a lot about the concern for relapse. The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, had a lot of it in his post, but one of the main reasons why many people return in a rush is that we don't have the good offer out in the municipalities. The back-up protection has been too poor. What this government is doing with the cooperation parties now is strengthening the important post-protection, the work done in the municipalities, building skills and providing a much better care and context in the treatment. Then it is also a very big paradox that the Workers' Party and the Centre do not want to support the obligation to pay for printable slots. No one can live their lives in a drug institution. Life lives in the municipalities. Why is it that the rubrics do not deserve the same coherent offer as somatically ill patients? If it is true that the representative Freddy de Ruiter believes that housing should be planned, plan rehabilitation by entering into treatment, then the same instruments must be used in the somatic field. That is what is important, and that is why it is important to introduce the obligation to pay, while this government and the cooperation parties strengthen the ability of municipalities to build up this competence, building up these offers. I think it is also very interesting that the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that the designation of funds for municipal russacks is bureaucratic. It's an argument we should notice in all other debates where the same parties believe that earmarking is the only answer to how municipalities should build services. This is also important because we saw that the previous government removed the earring, and we saw that the offers were weakened in the municipalities and not strengthened, so here the Workers' Party and the Centre have significant explanation problems. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Workers' Party must not present the debate on heroin-assisted treatment as that we describe that the weakest patients should give up or not be offered. I think one should respect the fact that there is quite a lot of disagreement, and actually no call in the discipline of Norway to introduce herion-assisted treatment. It is a demanding form of treatment that there is uncertainty as to whether the heaviest addicts have the opportunity to follow up, and therefore I believe that a rather stronger LAR regime should be established and not give up hope that people can get out of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e629	I am very pleased that the representative Ruth Grung is taking up the situation for those who are sickest. Here, the Labour Party and the Left have conflicting views on the application of medical procedures, including: accept heroin. So I disagree that the plan doesn't light up just this group. LASSO and several similar projects, to be extended, are clearly mentioned. Indeed, there are precisely patients who are too sick to fall within the LAR scheme, LASSO is targeting and helping with disease conditions and a more dignified life. That is why the plan includes it. We have to build up more of these, and I'm glad that the government parties and the Christian People's Party will join in. There's a great need for that, and not just in Oslo and Bergen. Then the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen takes up free treatment options. In addition, there has been a debate on package trajectories, some of which question whether package trajectories are suitable for drug use and psychiatry. Both the free and the package sequences do so. What these patients need is predictability, and it is precisely what they do not get in today’s swing door practices between uncoordinated actors. There are long courses of treatment, there are considerable uncertainties, and there are many gaps for these patients. Therefore, there is a great need for a better, more accurate, investigation and a more coherent process of treatment. A 24-hour guarantee will also come in as part of it. Cross-disciplinary specialised treatment, and in particular overnight stays, includes too much variation in Norway today. There are too many treatment philosophies, and we have too little evidence of treatment methodology. We have to ensure the quality of them, and we have to get less variation. That's why we have to standardize the process. We have to measure, and we have to ensure, effect. There has to be fewer variation and better quality. So this is the treatment sequence that is excellent for the package trajectory. In the case of free treatment choices, unfortunately not so many have been approved provisionally, but more are coming, and there are actors who are able to offer it. It's very important that we get those actors on the field, especially for these patient groups. I know more people who are in the LAR program who are nurses, and who are even the best in the world at something. These are resource-intensive patients who are highly able to participate in their own treatment, but they need help to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e642	There was a sort of debt that we, who are not adherents to the imposition of the obligation to pay for discharge spaces in the field of drugs and psychiatry in 2017, therefore, is for patients to be grounded in institutions. It's completely wrong. The paradox in this debate is that in 2012, when we adopted the big message, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had proposals and comments that, in the context of the inter-action reform, the payment arrangements had to be extended to rushes and psychiatry in the long term when we knew more, and when it was made right for it. At that time it was voted down by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Right wrote even in the notes that ‘people with drug problems and mental health cannot be treated according to the same treatment sets as somatic patients’. They recommended pilot projects for the organisation and funding of this group. So here each of us has had concerns about introducing this automatically. My concern now is that one has to create a defenceable health supply before we introduce these duties and these economic arrangements. It is now said that the municipalities lack 4000 annual work. It's going to be billions of dollars, just billions of dollars. I have asked written questions – I have not received the number, but we lack a lot of housing. Now that we're almost in mid-2016 and this is to be introduced at New Year's, I just can't understand how this is going to work. I hope the deadline is postponed. I agree with the representative from the government party that this can be introduced, and I agree, of course, that everyone should have a place in a municipality. So I hope that we can approach each other a little bit in these matters and not go to the trenches because someone thinks that Rufraumns should stay in hospitals and others that they should stay in a municipality. It's actually not like that. So it would be nice if we could get a «run message» about this. It's probably coming in the community proposition -- it's going to be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e651	The representative Ruth Grung has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e654	I'll do as a mountaineers and talk fast. Designation: there is a difference in the designation of funds in a budget versus designation that one must apply for, or designation where one is required to purchase only services from specialist, private or non-profit institutions serving households. For heroin-assisted treatment, trials are based on what the leading medical-professional settings think is right to get patients treated with LAR. Today they have tried everything, as described to us, so that they do not come under LAR treatment. In terms of treatment courses and the choice of institution, we have received clear feedback: This patient group needs, in line with everyone else, to mobilise its own forces to influence the treatment courses they think are best suited to them, so that they are co-responsible – and it is about respect – for which treatment they think is best suited to them. We use treatment and not treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e667	There have been some questions and comments related to the discussion on treatment courses and on the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print, which should be commented on. I would first like to stress that we are about to present a progress plan for the establishment of package processes in both mental health and alcohol. It is precisely to ensure coherent services that are the objective. The second is that, as we have announced in the proposal, we will introduce payment obligations for the municipalities for patients who are ready to print – not until 2017. As the representative is involved, a few answers will be given in the municipal bill and in the state budget for 2017 whether it will be in 2017 or later. Of course, it's important that we have a good basis for implementing it. It is also important to stress that when we introduce the obligation to pay for patients with ready-to-print mental health and drug problems, it is not a blue copy of the scheme in somatic matters. This arrangement will just imply binding cooperation between the specialist health service and the primary health service on the offers to be made after processing, but the obligation to pay is important in order to enable the two parties to start planning and cooperation in the past. If the specialist health service does not invite such cooperation, they will not be able to charge the municipality for the money, and if the municipality does not participate in the cooperation and prepare its offer, to which they have committed themselves, they can get a bill because they have not set up. I think that would be very effective. There is no blue copy of what was introduced in the interaction reform, even if it is a liability. I think it'll have just that effect. To the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen: this will apply regardless of the specialist healthcare services the addict uses. Such a liability will apply to all. The free choice of treatment in multidisciplinaryly specified drug treatment increases the diversity of services, but it also increases the possibility of using available facilities. It is the case that in a very short time we have purchased 200 more treatment sites through tenders. The fact that some of the larger institutions have used up their available capacity by offering it is not surprising, but we are sure that, as a result of free treatment choices, more capacity is developed even in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e682	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e685	It's to the Center Party, because we disagree a little about municipal structure: I really think that one should be more concerned about the municipal structure and the patient groups we've discussed today than the obligation to pay, because the interaction needs to be strengthened. To the Competencelift 2020, as one describes: We now have a unique time frame before we get a large number of older people that we are going to take care of, but unfortunately we are also getting more and more addicts that we are going to provide. We see municipalities that have not started with experience consultants, who have not been rigged for user involvement, who use Nav to a small extent targeted to interact with these patient groups and with early monitoring and coordination. We see municipalities that haven't started Styrk projects. We are facing major challenges in the municipal sector. These patients are not only in the swing door, they travel to a large extent also across the municipal boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e696	We've discussed this many times, but it almost feels like we're talking past each other, as it's called. My point is – as a response to the Minister of Health – that it is very fine if there are good treatment sites that are being used in the treatment of drug users. That's very good, both within the best private and not least within the best ideals – and the public. It is very nice if the extra places can be available through the system and the cooperation that healthcare companies have with private individuals. Our point from the Workers' Party is that we don't have to create our own satellite in the Health Directorate, build up a big bureaucracy and separate these extra treatment sites from the other treatment facility. That's what we're against. And then we believe that everything that is going to happen in the Norwegian health care system and in patient care needs to be done within agreed frameworks and priorities. It's very important. Those who are free to choose treatment have a single price, but no framework for their activities. That's a strange way to do it. There is our whole criticism of the so-called free treatment choice. It is not the free choice that is problematic – we have had it since 2001 – but it is the way to close these private ones into treatment. We believe that we would get much better treatment, much more coherence in treatment, coherence between public treatment institutions and levels and the best private. That's just the point. So I hope we can sort that out after 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e705	We have now dealt with a plan that we largely agree on politically. I wish for the benefit of this patient group that we now did not go into the ditch of discussing rhetoric, because patients deserve something else. Now, when we stand together, opposition and position, we should really use this opportunity – when we agree – to actually lift this patient group. And when we agree to use the non-profit sector at the same time, we need to find solutions together so that patients can actually make use of it, more than discussing rhetoric, because it deserves this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e710	I didn't intend to take the word, but I was again challenged by municipal structure. I have not included this in my articles. I note that one should solve very much with structure. I mean, this thing is more important than that. There is also a sense that there are major challenges in large municipalities because big cities have a lot of this problem. The major cities also have problems, for example: with housing for ready-to-print patients, and I would like to take that seriously. That's why I don't want to focus on the municipal structure here. I believe that there are other things we need to focus on, and I believe that this escalation plan actually does. To stop where I started, there's a lot of agreement about the main lines, and the central part is also the same in most things as the principle of this plan. And I fully agree with what the representative of Bollestad said, that the non-profit sector is important, the municipalities are important, and I hope that this plan will be closed – with or without a community reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e732	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e739	On 1 January 2004, the Russian reform entered into force. The county authorities’ responsibility for providing drug-dependent treatment was transferred to the country. The applicable implementing rules for the drug field are those laid down in the regulation of 4 December 1992 No. 915 to the Social Services Act. When the Act on Health and Welfare came into force on 1 January 2012, this Act replaced the Law on Health Services in Municipalities and the Social Services Act. Public and private institutions in the specialist health care sector are subject to the Special Health Services Act, while municipal and other private institutions are subject to the Health and Care Act. Current regulations have not been updated with regard to new legislation and reorganization. Prop. 40 L for 2015–2016 cleans up this. In this context, the Directorate has set up a consultation team consisting of representatives of the institutions and users’ organisations. The directorate's proposal for a new regulation has been consulted before the government made final proposals, which have been slightly amended in line with the input received during the hearing. The Health and Welfare Committee has also held consultations. I would like briefly to comment on the amendments proposed and the Committee's position on them. A majority of the hearing bodies supported the inclusion in the regulation of private institutions without agreement with the public. The Committee also supports this. 25 to 7 hearing bodies supported a continuation as well as an addition to the issue of body screening and search. It is important to stress that the regulation provides for access to conduct studies, not for such studies to be carried out. The Committee supports this point. The Committee refers specifically to RIO’s input to the Committee that two should be present, preferably by the same sex used in carrying out such studies. Antidrug testing of biological material is supported by a large majority of the hearing bodies, and an overall committee supports this point. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal to have the rules laid down in a common implementing regulation, which gives us equal rules for institutions at different levels and under different laws. Users have to go through their treatment cycle to different institutions many times. Common regulations make it easier for users to know their rights. The proposal to abolish the competence of the county council to adopt access to drug testing was supported by a majority of the hearing bodies. Their reason was that professionals close to the user are better placed to assess the need for such a test. The majority of the Committee also supports this, bearing in mind that legal certainty is ensured by requiring decisions to be taken and that decisions can be appealed to the State. The last point proposes that the general rules on drug testing of the Mental Health Act also apply to persons included in mental health protection based on the Health and Care Services Act. This point was widely supported, and the Committee therefore supports this point as well. Finally, I would like to refer to the Board of Directors – Rusfeld’s main organisation, which thought it was time for a new implementing regulation to take into account all changes in the drug field. They believe that the government has made a good proposition in which the main elements have been discussed and that sensible proposals are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e771	There is a cross-political consensus on better regulation of both rights and the use of coercion in drug treatment institutions and that it applies to all specialist healthcare institutions: municipal, private and non-profit institutions. This is a very important matter. As we discussed in the previous case, a lot has happened in ten years. This is about the legal certainty of some of our most vulnerable patients: the legal certainty of Ruspacers in terms of the use of coercion and power. The use of coercion is a very serious intervention that can easily be perceived as degrading and can cause fear, anxiety or inferiority. Forces are at the heart of the principle of legality. Therefore, equivalent provisions on coercion in mental health protection are regulated by law. The working party is concerned with the non-discrimination of rubrics with other patient groups, especially when it comes to demands for the same legal certainty as regards the use of power. In the hearing on the proposal, heavy professional environments such as the Ministry of Justice, the Health Directorate and Oslo University Hospital have been clear that they believe the use of power should be regulated by law and not by regulation. The way we organise our services cannot override the basic principles of legal certainty and legality that the use of power against citizens represents. The Workers' Party therefore proposes that the rules on the enforcement of anti-routine coercive measures be regulated by law, not by regulation. Subsidy, we support regulation through a common regulation if we do not get a majority in order for it to be incorporated directly into law. The Workers' Party also supports the consultation input from Bufdir on requirements for professional competence of institutional managers, who are now given the competence to take decisions on the use of coercion. We don't see the reason why we shouldn't set this requirement. We also record that the heavy professional community believes that the legal security of Rufraunter is not sufficiently protected when we do not continue the two-way handling, as we do in psychiatry, where coercive decisions are passed by an external body. We are uncertain whether legal certainty is adequately safeguarded by the fact that decisions can only be appealed to the State. The County of Oslo and Akershus highlight this and show, among other things: to their experience of supervision. The Labour Party expects the Minister of Health to follow this up and assume responsibility for promoting changes if it appears that the use of coercion does not comply with the clear leadership and intentions given here. In conclusion, we also refer to the recent debate and observation in the VG on large differences in the use of coercion and on non-reporting. We expect the reporting systems to be in place for coercive decisions in drug institutions. Then I take up the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e794	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e797	The use of coercion should be among the toughest decisions a society takes, and therefore it is important that it is restricted and framed as strongly as possible. Reporting to the Health Directorate, which VG recently revealed, is a warning to all of us that this work has not been done well enough. There are thousands more reported enforcement cases than reported to the Health Directorate. They're reported at the hospital level, but not to the Health Directorate. And in one hospital as much as nine out of ten cases are not reported. That means we don't have an overview of this field. This field is absolutely decisive that we have an overview of it – if not, we may not actually have control over the use of force. The Socialist Left supports throughout the Centre Party and the Labour Party's proposals. We think it's very important that coercion should have treatment as its purpose, not just control. We mean that society is obliged to have such an attitude. In all parts of care, there is a risk that low staffing or inadequate skills may increase coercive use. Therefore, welfare services are so important that ensure proper and adequate competence. The Socialist Left believes that there is too little regulatory attachment as proposed by the majority, and therefore it is primarily in favour of the proposal for a law. Secondaryly, I would like to notify support for the proposal of the majority in order to ensure the necessary regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e806	Today’s regulation on the rights and use of coercive measures in drug treatment institutions is out of date. It is therefore to be replaced by a new regulation. Clearer limits on the use of force in the legislation are necessary before the adoption of the new regulation. We have therefore proposed amendments to three laws. The proposal for amendments to the Special Health Service Act and the Health and Care Services Act will provide a clear framework for the regulation. With clear frameworks, I also see no concern that the detailed rules are given in the regulations rather than in the two laws. This is how you get a comprehensive regulation dealing with all public and private institutions providing treatment for those with drug dependence, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. The draft regulation is drawn up in consultation with the institutions and user organisations concerned. It is important to listen to their experiences. Also in the drug field it should be the patient’s health care. The new regulation stipulates that enforcement and restrictions shall be restricted to what is strictly necessary. As far as possible, the patient’s or users’ views shall be taken into account. Forces shall only be applied when the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. I would also like to stress that the regulation will give little access to physical use of power. Such coercion will be reserved for emergency situations and detention and for the collection of persons who have been compulsorily placed under the Health and Welfare Act or who have consented to detention in connection with voluntary detention. The legislative proposal provides for routine checks on the person and assets on arrival at the treatment institution. This shall only be introduced by institutions where it is deemed necessary and the verification shall be carried out in a respectful manner. Today, the county council adopts access to drug testing for compulsive patients in the drug field. That authority is proposed to provide institutions with better assumptions to assess the individual patient and the need for testing. Drug testing without consent shall continue to be available only in relation to compulsive patients. Decisions shall be subject to appeal to the State. At the same time, some minor changes are proposed in the rules on drug testing in the mental health protection law, with a view to some coordination between the rules on drug care and the rules on mental health protection. It is proposed that drug testing other than urine samples should be allowed in both areas, both in the care of drug users and in mental health protection. New methods, such as: testing of saliva could be more appropriate. It is therefore proposed to propose neutral rules on the method used. The legislative proposal we are debating today concerns changes that are important to get in place as soon as possible. However, I have also taken the initiative to carry out a comprehensive review of the enforcement rules in the healthcare sector. This will also include the drug field. A public body will be appointed to this work in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e832	The first question is perhaps what is most relevant in view of the debate that has been going on. The extent to which the Minister should ensure that good reporting systems are put in place and an overview of what is happening in relation to coercive decisions in these drug institutions is covered by reporting systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e837	I'm very pleased that VG has had so much attention to this topic. That, I think, will help make the service even more aware of the importance of this reporting. This is not a new topic – I also raised this in a discussion with the boards of regional health companies just after Christmas, where this discussion was linked to the variation in reporting on coerciveness in mental health. I believe that the variation and under-reporting that we see there is not acceptable, and it is the responsibility of the manager to clean this up and reverse that development, both because it is crucial for us to have an overview of the extent of coercion, and it is crucial for us to have an overview of the variation in the use of coercion. It's also about respect for the patients who are actually exposed to this, which is always going to be the last resort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e842	I then interpret it in such a way that we have good reporting systems within this area. The next question is that we fully understand that user organisations see the practical aspects of the changes, while the heavy professional environments have been more concerned with the principle of legality and that coercive decisions, power decisions, to the citizens should be incorporated into law. Can the Minister, in his short reply, say anything about why one chooses not to make professional demands to the head of these drug institutions, nor does it legislate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e850	When it came to repatriation in law, I was involved in my post. Much of the purpose here is just to ensure good, transparent rules for both employees and patients, and I think that might be as important for legal certainty as where this is written, or whether it's written in a law or regulation. If we had anchored this in different laws, we would have to look for information on this in very different laws, and today's treatment arrangements just mean that one gets more treatment across. So for the legal certainty of the individual user, I think it's an advantage that this is grouped together in one place, as a consequence of the changes in the laws that Stortinget adopts today. So I agree that there have been a number of principal issues raised in the consultation round that will just be part of the work of the new sample set down in this area, where the most extensive proposal is a common law of coercion for the whole service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e857	I did not get a response to this with professional competence. There are very different professional competences in the different drug institutions, and having good skills in how to take other measures before you have to use coercive measures is often linked to professional competence. So why don't you want to demand professional competence, as Bufdir thinks it should be in these drug institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e862	I would like to remind you that this concerns access to drug testing for compulsive persons in drug establishments. I believe that proposing the authority transferred to the institution provides greater proximity and assessment of when this is right. It will continue to be possible to appeal this Decision to the State and obtain a verification of its legality. But when you think about the competence of the institutions that have access to the forced admission patients from the drug field, I'm probably not so concerned that there will be no competence to assess which patients this will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e867	The debate on lawmaking and regulation is a debate, but the disclosures in the VG show that access to competence is crucial for the amount of coercion used, but also the organisation. Now we don't know anything about the differences in mental health protection and drug use from the figures that have emerged in the VG, but Health Bergen says they lack access to specialists, and that's one of the explanations that they're overrepresented in the use of coercive decisions. So access to competence is obviously important here, and Health Bergen has a Department of Drug Medicine. Here we are facing a major challenge, so how will the Council of State deal with recruiting those drugs and that professional competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e872	I agree that the recruitment of competences is important, and that is one of the reasons why we have now established our own specialty in drug medicine, and better tools have also been developed in the specialist healthcare service to plan adequate competences through the decisions now taken by the Stortinget in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan. I would nevertheless warn a little against drawing a unilateral conclusion that because there have been some challenges in recruitment, such as. in Health Stavanger and where one has had a high use of coercion, it is such that if one only has the right competence and proper staffing, then the forced use goes down. I'm not sure about that. We also see that this is very much about management and culture, and we have to address the responsibility that a local person has to contribute to taking down the coercion and not just let this become a discussion about money and resources, because then I'm afraid that we will see the same reaction in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e877	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e893	The Committee has examined the Left’s proposal on gender-neutral titles for the replacement of health sisters and midwives. The health sector has significant challenges in achieving the objective of equality. 84 pst. of the employees are women. Figures from 2014 show that education in health, such as dental secretary, dental nurse, midwife and health sister, has a female ratio of up to 100 pst. The Committee believes that it is an objective to improve the gender balance in several health professions. It will make services more accessible to all, provide more diversity and be positive for the working environment. Recruiting more men to health centres and, in particular, to school health services is particularly important. For both fathers in health centres and boys in need of follow-up, it will in many cases be important to meet one of the same sex. Norwegian nurses' association is clear that they want more male nurses, and they believe that a new title can be an instrument. They stress that it is particularly important to get more men to choose just nursing training. Today is just 9 pst. by the students, men, and there is a continuous challenge in several health education. A broad majority of the Committee considers that changes to professional titles should be anchored in professional environments rather than on the initiative of the Stortinget. We are also aware that the nurses' association at its last national meeting has decided to work on gender-neutral titles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e904	I register that I have had plenty of speaking time. I am that perhaps not everyone is going to take the floor in this debate, but I am going to try not to be the last to speak. It's not more than fourteen days since we had an equality debate in the hall. Then a large number of people decided that we should put in place measures for the 80 p.m. professions, and, as the representative here said, in the health sector, women represent 84 p.m. It is one of the sectors in which we need to assess actions both in the training and in working conditions. This is not a new proposal. We can go back to 2013 and take an example. Then promoted the head of the Right Women's Forum, then correct, and the city board member of Oslo, Julie Brodtkorb, a similar proposal to explore the gender-neutral title of the health sister. The inspiration was from the City Board of Youth in Oslo, and it was actually a majority decision in the City Board of Oslo in 2013. The red-green government shaded away from taking hold of it then. Similar shadows Right yourself a little away from taking hold of it today. So there is little willingness to use the political positions to develop the health sector to become more gender neutral. In view of the recent adoption of a national health and hospital plan, which duly addresses the challenges we face by 2030 of recruiting to the health sector, we need to get more people to take education for the health sector, and not least it must mean that we have to get more men to do so. By 2030, even every three 18-year-olds will have to choose health education in order to meet the challenges – whether we have a health sector and a service at today’s level. So we're facing major challenges. I think then that we are doing today's and next generations, not a bear service, but an inner service when we don't get involved in this policy. We see that also the trade unions shadow away from getting hold of it. It's quite right that we have to recruit more health sisters, we have to recruit many more, and we have to recruit more than the five male health sisters we know today. It is likely that the title stands in the way of male choice of health-sister education. We're not going to get too attached to it, because we have to discuss this in a broader perspective. We are facing major challenges in the field of mental health protection, and many are calling for a lifelong education at school and to have mental health at school. We need to discuss which skills to deal with the new subjects that are being asked in fields we see more and more young people struggling with. The body practice has a tendency to concentrate on what's under the chin, and it's a lot about running 3,000 meters. In Norwegian sport, we have become very good at mental training. We need to build mental capital in society and to transfer some of the knowledge we have in sports, also to the health sector and to the school health service. Today, we have many types of education that actually spend a lot of time on this in the education process. Sports educators are one of them, socionomists are another group, child protection educators etc. There are other professional training courses which can be authorised as health advisers. There is also a discussion we need to take to get greater diversity, better capacity and quality in school health services. We need to discuss a renewed and reinforced school health service in Norway. It's the beginning of this I think we should spend more time on today through this proposal. It's okay that one will not exactly today, but there is little willingness to interact with the trade unions and the municipalities, who have largely changed the title of a fireman to a firemaker and provided for increased recruitment of women to typical human-dominated subjects. I fear that when we discuss equality on the premises of women, we dare not. It worries me that we are not afraid to take the debates that are so important to the next generations. We know that it takes a long time to change the capacity of education. If we're going to figure out a new authorisation scheme for a kind of health consultant, it'll take time. We don't get the other actors talking here, and it's demanding, I think. So it's going to go to 2030, just like the mood is now, before we get to do anything about this. And that's when we point out that every three 18-year-olds have to choose health care. In the meantime, almost 15 years old, more and more children are going to school and are going to experience that they are not getting the guidance and assistance they need, either in terms of quality or capacity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I challenge to dry up a little more courage to take the debates here, which concern those who actually have no voting rights or any speech rights in the Storting, and who are all too often pushed out on the sidelines, or who stand and knock on a door where no one is behind. This is the case in much of the school health service because its capacity is too low. In 2011, the Health Directorate presented a report that points to the fact that 2016 is the year of shortages in health sisters in Norway. And what's the order server on that? It's just to get those who have a part-time job to work a little bit more. There are no health sisters to import because there is no authorised title in any other country — at least not in our neighbouring country. We are facing a capacity challenge that we need to address. I take up the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e930	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President notes that he has not succeeded in recruiting more people for the debate, so several have not asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e946	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e953	All taxes and charges are currently regulated within three main areas, either substantive rules, collection rules or administrative rules. In the last 15 years, new and comprehensive regulatory audits have been carried out under substantive and collection rules, but there has been no major review of tax management rules since 1980. The proposal on our table today brings together and harmonises today's unbridled legislation, and it strengthens the legal certainty of taxpayers by making it easier to identify the legislation. In the last ten years, Denmark and Sweden have had such a review themselves, and the background was as in Norway, that administrative rules were spread beyond a large number of laws. The administrative code as it stands today, using almost 60 regulations, has led us to have many provisions that were intended to have the same content, but which have had different wording and an inconsistent conceptual device, and which have been very difficult to find out in addition. The general rule now is that the new law replaces the administrative law, unless otherwise expressly provided. The legal certainty of taxpayers has also been strengthened by the establishment of a new and independent nationwide complaint subject, which will start its work as of 1 July 2016. The contents of the Tax Administration Act were at consultation between November 2014 and March 2015, and the vast majority of the hearing bodies that expressed their general opinion on the proposal were positive, and therefore there was no consultation in the Stortinget. But of the hearings that were, I particularly noticed in the Business College BI hearings, which called the proposal very affordable, because they can now, as a teaching institution, spend more time on the content of the provision than to spend time teaching where the provisions are to be found. The law contains a lot of positive elements, and I'm going to draw out a few of them in particular. It is that the tax authorities may no longer levy additional taxes until the appeal period has expired or any action has been closed, and the rate of additional taxes on wealth and income tax shall be reduced from 30 p.m. until 20 pst. Binding ex ante opinions are provided in all areas covered by the Tax Administration Act, not only on petroleum and value added tax. Now we can also ask for a preliminary opinion for example. excise duties and motor vehicles, which must be used if the taxable person so requires. It shall also be possible to appeal against binding prior opinions and the tax payer shall have reasons for any decision. There will also be a common five-year period for changing the tax setting, i.e. the same deadline as keeping accounts. In the past, we have had different deadlines, and the maximum deadline has been ten years, the shortest in two years. This is now being coordinated to be five years. At the same time, however, it is made clear from the Committee that an increase of five years is conditional on the tax authorities not being used by the tax authorities to go after small picks of ordinary tax returns. There has been a disagreement about one area in this case, which is based on the input from the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommuner. They consider that there is a fundamental guarantee of legal certainty for individuals to have their administrative decisions tried by appeal before the courts, where appropriate. It's something that's basically in line with what the Progress Party thinks, but the LVK is moving this principle a step further. They believe that this guarantee applies to the property tax requirements of municipalities as much as to the rights of private citizens. So the majority of the committee wants to give access to that process, which we think is going to be wrong. It becomes as if the municipality should also be able to complain about both income taxes and property taxes to each person because, for example, the municipality also has municipal taxpayers. Apart from this one point, where a majority agrees with LVK's input, it is a unanimous committee that now supports the government's proposal for a new tax administration law. There is no doubt that the new Tax Administration Act is a major victory for the Progress Party as a party and for the legal certainty of the individual. In the opposition, we promoted a number of proposals in this Chamber to strengthen the position of taxpayers, but were broadly downgraded. In the position, we are now getting the bulk of many of our previous proposals for change, and that means that the Progress Party gets an impact on things we have fought since the party was founded – for the sake of the legal certainty of the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e974	The government brings together and simplifies the legislation and thus contributes to strengthening the legal certainty of taxpayers and facilitating better governance. There has been no major review of the tax management rules in Norway since 1980, and the Right supports efforts to increase the availability of administrative rules for users through a comprehensive, systematic and transparent regulatory framework. There is a broad consensus, as the rapporteur also pointed out, on most of the government's proposed amendments, and it also bears the hallmarks of the consultation. Most of the bodies that have expressed their views support the proposal that tax management rules be brought together in an exhaustive tax administration law. I am particularly pleased that the focus has been on solutions that strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers. This is also part of the Health Declaration – that we should review and improve legal certainty for taxpayers. The individual’s meeting with the tax authorities may often be perceived as a distorted relationship of strength, where individual taxpayers feel small and powerless in relation to a powerful tax rate. The legal certainty of the taxpayer is now strengthened, inter alia: through a new and independent tax complaint, it is reinforced by the fact that the law means that tax authorities cannot levy additional tax until the appeal period has expired or any action has ended and that additional tax is no longer to be imposed if the taxpayer can be excused for not providing correct and complete information. Furthermore, it is proposed that an important restriction on the right to convert a decision in a case of amendment to the detriment of the taxable person without the existence of new information, where the case under the new law must be raised within four months of the adoption of the original decision. The new law requires that there be a common period of five years for the change in the determination of the tax and that this is the same period as for the keeping of accounts. This is a law aimed at strengthening the legal certainty of the taxpayer, and I am pleased that the Committee is united behind a comment asking that letters sent from the tax rate to the individual taxpayer be as much as possible in line with the intentions of the language project of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, where the intention is to ensure that the language of the State in letters to the citizens is made simpler, more unbureaucratic and not least more appropriate. A majority also wishes to provide municipalities with access to information and justice in determining the property tax base for power plants. The right is not part of this majority, because we believe that the consideration of the property tax base of the municipalities is adequately protected by a separate right of appeal over these tax bases. This issue of transparency and access to justice has also been addressed and rejected several times in the past by a broad majority of cases, such as: under Stoltenberg I, Bondevik II and last under Stoltenberg II. It would be interesting to hear the reason why lots have now turned around in this vision. The starting point is that only the taxpayer has the right of access to justice, the right to appeal and the right to have access to justice over his own equation. The municipalities also do not have the right to complain about the tax on the income and wealth of the taxpayer, even if these tax revenues flow to the municipalities. It would therefore be in breach of the general tax complaint system if we introduced the right to complain to municipalities about the tax base for power plants. It is now proposed in this new Tax Administration Act that municipalities have a separate right of appeal over the property valuation of power plants. The reason is that one will ensure that the municipalities are given the opportunity to correct errors in the disagreement about the valuation. A separate right of transparency and complaint will allow municipalities to control the use of resources in the tax rate without affecting municipal resources. The right considers that the tax rate itself should give priority to the use of its control resources on the basis of an overall risk assessment and an assessment of key issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1000	The central party supports the broad lines contained in the bill. In many areas, the proposal gives the taxpayer more rights, and it is also an autonomous democratic value in that the law now becomes simpler and thus more accessible to most people. The tax administration shall be characterised by transparency and respect for the rights of individual taxpayers, and it is important that the system of access to justice and its follow-up function properly. In this context, it is particularly gratifying that the majority of the Committee, acting on a proposal from the Centre Party, is in favour of correcting the specific discrimination in determining the property tax base for power plants promoted in the proposal. In fact, the proposition neither provides for formal access to, nor provides legal remedies for, municipalities in such cases, as opposed to other types of property. The centre party considers this to be unfortunate, in particular since the alternative to administrative review is judicial review, entailing significant costs both for the tax administration and for the municipalities. In addition, experience suggests that there is a need for better control of the taxation of power plants than is the case today. Many tax bases are being misplaced. For example, following LVK checks in 2010 and 2011, there were: amending decisions, with an increase in the tax base of more than SEK 1.8 billion. kr. With such a history, it is unfortunate that the ability of municipalities to comply with the tax administration’s decisions is limited by the fact that formal access rights are not established. Lack of transparency makes it more difficult to assess the correctness of a decision and may lead to unnecessary legal proceedings or to incorrect decisions being taken. By February at the latest, the municipalities of Forsand were refused access to the property tax base, and municipalities such as Vennesla, Bykle, Lærdal and Høyanger filed for 2016 for the purpose of re-establishing the property tax base for power plants. In view of this, the Centre Party considers that the new law should provide municipalities with both access to information and access to justice in determining the property tax base for power plants. We are very pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with this and with the clear decision of the Stortinget. The committee reading has made the legislative proposal even better, and the government's order is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1009	First, I just want to thank the rapporteur for a good job in the committee, and also for a good report, of which there is no problem joining large sections. The examination of this matter is, of course, marked by the fact that there are no major differences here, and I believe that there is an overall committee and an aggregate increase that sees the benefit of bringing this law together and that it also strengthens the legal certainty of taxpayers. Then the Workers' Party is challenged because you now agree to give the municipalities legal remedies where they now only have a right to apply, and it is referred to the governments Stoltenberg I, Stoltenberg II and Bondevik II. I wish Siri A. Meling and Right had equal love for decisions taken in Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II in other matters, but in this case it is no worse than that the Workers' Party has had many meetings with the municipalities, representatives of the municipalities, and we have also been made aware of – which probably also Right and others have, I hear the leader of the Centre Party refers to something of the same thing – the many legal cases that have had to be conducted lately. It's about finding a practical solution, that you can get solutions without having to go into business. It is also pointed out that there are considerable differences in the valuation here between municipalities, and that one must be able to solve this in simpler ways without going to court. We believe that in the Workers' Party is an advantage. So even if you've made a decision in a previous government period, you can find practical solutions as you move forward. We are happy to be able to help secure the majority of this matter in the Grand Duchy today. But apart from that, there doesn't seem to be any big disagreements, and we're behind the great and good work done here to get these laws together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1018	Let me start by saying that I am very happy that there is a unanimous big deal in this matter. That is because proper taxes, which are set at the right time, are important to maintain trust in a tax system. But more importantly, it's about the legal certainty of the taxpayers. There is no doubt about the complexity that has been — it has been difficult, it has been less pervasive and less transparent for taxpayers. Facilitating good and comprehensible rules, in which it is also easy to identify, strengthens legal certainty. What this law now contributes to is that the amount of rules is greatly reduced, and it makes it possible to replace 60 regulations with one common regulation. In other words, the Tax Administration Act now adds to modern and efficient tax administration, which I believe we are totally dependent on having to secure both the future tax system and not least the welfare society. So it's very happy that there's such a big deal about this. So two brief comments: one concerns the Committee's identification of simpler languages. I agree. It must be possible to understand letters coming from the public, and here I think the Stortinget gives a good lead for all the time in public institutions to strive to simplify the language and make it easy to understand and understand. I'll make sure to follow up. As far as the majority's proposals are concerned, I take note of that. I have noticed what the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party have said in the debate, but at the same time I note that there is a majority who wants something else, and I will of course follow that up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1041	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1048	The background to this position is a proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA representative, Une Aina Bastholm, on the phasing-out of petroleum subsidies. It is the duty of a case rapporteur to try to bring together a broad majority, and that is why I will start by admitting that I may have done a bad job as a case rapporteur, because I am in a minority of the committee. I think that's a pity, but I'm going to try to explain the majority's view of the matter to the best of my ability, too, because I think that's neat. There is a continuing disagreement in the financial committee and in the Stortingen as to whether the Norwegian petroleum tax system is currently successfully designed from a neutral point of view, i.e. whether the characteristics of the petroleum tax system are neutral in the way we strive for in the formulation of other tax policies. That's the one. The second is that the petroleum tax system takes account of the changes that we need to undergo as a result of the anthropogenic climate change and the reduction of anthropogenic CO2 emissions that Norway must also contribute to. Here the Committee agrees that the Norwegian petroleum tax system and the way in which we have organised the oil industry in Norway are both positive for the country and quite unique in the international context. I'm just going to open up there, because many of these debates tend to degenerate into competitions about who's most for or most against oil. That's not what this is all about. What is at stake is that the vast majority of countries that are so rich in oil and gas per capita as is Norway are characterised by either widespread corruption, violent misalignment or even armed conflict and widespread use of violence. It's not that being very rich in natural resources necessarily benefits a country's population. But it has done so in Norway, because we have good arrangements, we have BENEFITS, we have said that we have a common ownership of natural resources, and we have a good tax on the revenue from there, which means that it is the community in Norway that has set the conditions for the use of oil revenues for oil companies, and in a way that also ensures that technology, jobs and industry have come to Norway and not just benefited the rest of the world. We in Norway should be proud of that. Then we go into a time that is not only characterized by falling oil prices, but is also characterized by an increasingly precarious need to lower man-made climate change and CO2 emissions. And here we come to the heart of the disagreement in the committee, for the majority of the committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that the petroleum tax system as it is designed today is balanced, that it operates in line with good neutrality principles for the tax system, and that they are climate policy-adequate. A minority, consisting of Left and SV, believes that the proposal for a representative has more specific features. In particular, we note that the Minister of Finance himself, in his letter to the Committee, states that the overall deduction value of today's petroleum tax system is higher than it would have been in a neutral tax system. So we find it interesting that the Minister of Finance himself determines it in the form of a letter to the Committee, but that the party traps of the Minister of Finance do not take the consequence of this in the vote. But it's not just a neutral tax system we're looking for here, it's a tax system that reflects the climate policy realities that Norway is part of. And after the Paris negotiations in December, most of the world's countries have joined the goal of limiting man-made climate change to a maximum of 1.5 degrees compared to pre-industrial time. And when you take into account that the world's average temperature is already about 1 degree above pre-industrial time, that means that the new climate ambitions that Norway is also part of, halves the carbon budget that we have left on the globe. That means we can only extract and use half of the fossil resources we thought before the climate negotiations in Paris. I believe it is naive to believe – I regret it if it is an unparliamentary expression – that such an agreement and limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees does not have consequences for what resources Norway can extract. But it is difficult to be bombastic, and therefore one of the proposals of the minority in the committee is a proposal to identify the impact of the new 1.5 degree target on the petroleum tax system. I think it's a little strange that the majority can't join an investigation of this. We also have three other proposals. We ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a switch to public support for renewable energy. We ask the government to improve and further develop the renewable energy support regime. And we are asking the government not least to ensure that the CO2 tax on the base reflects the CO2 tax otherwise in Norway less the quota price. There is no reason why there should be a lower CO2 charge on the base than otherwise. I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1084	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1087	Proposals initially refer to the UN report ‘The New Climate Economy’, which includes: pointing at ‘subsidies and tax benefits to fossil energy as one of the main obstacles to achieving the two-degree target. In 2014, Norway gave tax advantages to its petroleum industry equivalent to SEK 20.8 billion. krona, according to figures from the 2015 national budget. The proposer proposes that these environmentally hostile subsidies be phased out'. The working party disagrees with the premise in the proposal that the petroleum industry is an industry of ‘fossil subsidies’. The IEA defines a subsidy on energy ‘as measures aimed at reducing the cost to energy producers or at lowering the price to consumers’ — see. Ministry of Finance's letter. Based on this definition, the IEA lists 40 countries that subsidized fossil energy in 2013. Norway is not included in this list. Over 80 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are covered by the allowances and/or CO2 tax. According to the OECD, Norway has some of the highest charges in the world on fossil energy. On the cap, there is both an obligation on allowances and a particularly high CO2 charge, so that the total CO2 price of the extractive activity exceeds 500 kr per tonne of CO2. The main objective of Norwegian petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas resources in the long term. Petroleum activity is Norway’s largest industry measured in value added, state income and export value and contributed 219 billion in 2015. kr in income of the State, of which 103.7 bn. kr in tax. The Petroleum Taxation System and the EEAS ensure that a high proportion of the profits are attributable to the Community and provide incentives for companies to operate efficiently and implement socially viable investments. Thus, oil companies can use their competence to identify, plan and implement resource extraction in a way that also provides high socio-economic profitability. The interaction between the state, oil companies, the supplier industry and the research sector is an important part of Norwegian petroleum management. The tax system and the search fusion system are part of this interaction. The petroleum activity in Norway is subject to a total tax rate of 78 pst. There is little basis for saying that the tax conditions for Norwegian petroleum activities are more favourable than in other petroleum regions. Petroleum taxes also do not reduce prices for Norwegian consumers. The reasons for the draft representative also point to the search for a solution. This mechanism was introduced in 2005 to reduce any entry barriers for new entrants and to facilitate profitable exploration. Light fusion does not involve the subsidisation of exploration activities, but involves the non-taxable non-discrimination of companies with companies in the tax position. The working party believes that it is important to maintain both the tax system and the lighter fusion system in order to stimulate investment in the petroleum sector and increase the extraction and development of findings. This is not least important now with increasing unemployment especially in the petroleum and related industries and with lower investment in the sector. The proposal proposes to strengthen and further develop renewable energy and technology support regimes. I would like to point out that extensive support schemes have already been established through Enova, Innovation Norway and through the Research Council. The transition to a sustainable welfare society has begun far too far. Plus about 80 pst. Norwegian emissions are subject to a quota obligation or CO2 tax, Norway actively uses regulations and provides financial support for renewable energy and climate-friendly technology development. This policy has produced good results, emissions per unit produced in the Norwegian economy have fallen by about 36 pst. the last 20 years when the oil sector is included. In the mainland economy, the emission intensity is almost halved over the same period. The Workers' Party supports the majority's proposal to annex the proposal to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1131	Initially, it is appropriate to conclude that there has been broad political agreement on the objective and framework conditions for Norwegian petroleum activities. The oil industry, as everyone knows, has contributed to many jobs, both directly and indirectly. The incomes of the state have contributed to the enormous wealth development that we have seen in recent decades. This is likely to continue for a long time in the future, although returns and extraction will be gradually reduced. The Petroleum Tax Act lays down rules on the taxation of this sector. This tax system differs on several points from the general tax system. The main difference here is that, in addition to the ordinary corporation tax, a special tax must be paid, so that the total marginal tax known to be 78 pst. It must be concluded that this is hardly a particularly low tax rate, but also whether this has been a broad political consensus. It is an important objective to facilitate the efficient production of oil and gas resources in the long term and to maximise their effectiveness. The important thing here is that health, environment and safety and other industries are taken into account. The tax system developed ensures the income of the community, while giving the company incentives for efficient operation and making investments as socially viable as possible. Norwegian consumers of energy are not subsidized as a result of the petroleum tax. The end-user price is determined as known by international product prices, high excise duties and the competition in local markets. The representative proposal questions the purpose by maintaining the search for a solution. This arrangement implies that companies that are not in the tax position may choose between the immediate payment of the tax value of the exploration costs and the transfer of interest and the refund of the tax value of any loss when they are in the tax position. As a result, the companies have the assurance that they will benefit from all tax credits, and the carry-over rate compensates companies that have to wait for tax deductions until later years. The reimbursement scheme thus provides for the economic value of the tax deduction for exploration costs of companies in and outside the tax position. The present value of the country's future tax revenue is independent of whether the exploration costs are deducted on an annual basis or with a larger deduction when the company enters the tax position. Light fusion does not involve the subsidisation of exploration activities, but the non-taxable non-discrimination of companies with companies in the tax position. With regard to the point of improving and further developing the renewable energy and technology support regime, it is appropriate to refer to the already established and comprehensive support schemes that are, inter alia, through Enova, Innovation Norway and the Research Council. In addition, the appropriations for these purposes have been increased in the State budget for 2016. As the draft representative is designed, it appears that the intention is to reduce investment and activity on a Norwegian base. Reduced supply of oil and gas on the market shall lead to reduced emissions. There is no worldwide shortage of oil and gas, as is known, so reduced production in Norway will have no demonstrable impact on global emissions. However, such a reduction in production would have a negative impact on the Norwegian economy. There is also reason to recall the importance of having a predictable framework conditions for Norwegian oil industry, especially in the demanding situation in which the industry is currently experiencing. Starting a public investigation at this stage could create uncertainty in industry and reinforce the challenges already present. It is therefore important and good that there is a broad cross-political consensus in this matter on the framework conditions they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1157	I have to admit that I think it is strange to talk about tax benefits to an industry that has a tax rate of 78 p.m., and that has been the reason why we, as a nation, have built up the welfare society we have with an oil fund of over 7 000 billion. kr. The representative, Serigstad Valen, hoped that this would not be a debate about who is the most for or against oil, but that is what this debate is really about, because the Greens not only write in their proposal that they want to phase out subsidies for the petroleum industry, but that this should be used as an instrument to achieve the ultimate goal, which is to phase out the whole industry. It's at the very end of the proposal. In 2014, 240,000 were directly and indirectly employed in this sector, and the halving of the oil price has clearly demonstrated the importance of this sector for Norway, not least along the coast from Kristiansand to Kristiansund. We have to stop talking about this industry down and rather try to create optimism. The number of inhabitants in the world will grow to 9 billion people, energy demand will probably increase by one third from what it was in 2013, to 2040. The production of oil and gas on Norwegian soil is among the most environmentally friendly in the world, with Norwegian oil production amounting to 2 pst in 2014. of global production, and our oil reserves are 0.4 pst. The oil industry is Norway’s largest industry measured in value added and the value added per employee in industry is between 7 million. NOK 10 million. kr. The production of oil is going to be of great importance in Norway in the future as well, and I am reported when I hear about politicians who are taking the order to wind up the whole industry, and talk about what we're going to live off after the oil. Firstly, politicians are very poor at predicting future success industries, but the most important thing is that the premise is wrong, because we're going to live off the oil. We're going to live on the oil for another 100 years. The industry is going to be a huge contributor in terms of jobs and incomes, and the question should not be what we're going to live on after oil, but what industries are going to develop to be large in addition to oil industry. The purpose of the proposal for a representative is to reduce investment, but also to reduce activity on a Norwegian base. The idea seems to be that a reduction in the supply of oil and gas on the market will lead to a reduction in emissions. But there is no shortage of oil and gas resources in the world, and demand is record high and growing. Reduced production in Norway will have a significant negative impact on the Norwegian economy and on our welfare community, but will have no demonstrable impact on global emissions. By going in the direction set by the representative proposal, we will end up being left with only a terrible, expensive symbol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1170	Global warming is an increasingly serious reality. February was the warmest month ever recorded internationally. It underlines the importance of the Paris agreement – that we reach the goals that Norway has confirmed that we are going to join in. Of course, it will have consequences. The measure is ambitious and demanding, but is absolutely necessary for future generations to have the same freedom to enjoy and use nature as we have enjoyed. The petroleum sector accounts for almost one third of Norwegian CO2 emissions. Should we limit the global temperature increase to almost 1.5 degrees as we have committed ourselves to, led to the extraction and combustion of fossil resources flattening out and searching monthly in the long term. Petroleum policy must therefore be set up in order to reconcile it with a successful climate policy. Climate policy considerations must form part of the decision-making basis when planning new petroleum projects. It is essential to review petroleum taxation with a view to making the tax environment more environmentally sound and reducing the risk exposure of the country, the Community, accepting changes in future oil and gas prices – and to creating market conditions in the Norwegian sector that strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian petroleum industry at the low emission age, where production and product are as climate friendly as possible being the most important competitive advantage for industry. Instead of going into the reality of how to include the petroleum sector in the effort to bring down climate change emissions, unfortunately let a large number of people in the hall go to the eye and enter a polemic discussion where they claim: ‘The majority disagree with the premise that this is an industry of ‘fossil subsidies’’. A lot of speaking time could be used to support the premise. The main problem is not whether there are subsidies or not, but whether the petroleum industry tax system contributes to more or less fossil emissions, and whether there is a tool to reduce emissions and make nutrition more climate friendly. The plural rewrites in the setting: ‘The majority consider it important to maintain this in order to stimulate investment in the petroleum sector and to increase extraction and development of findings.’ There is evidence that oil extraction is much more important than reduced climate emissions. There's no dangerous road. Last week before the summer holiday, Stortinget is scheduled to deal with a proposal from the Labour Party on reduced climate change emissions. A total of 45 proposals have been put forward – a cost-effective initiative, but again: no proposals are related to emission reduction in the sector that accounts for one third of emissions, other than a kind of desire for installations to be active after 2050 to be included in a low-emission strategy. Taxes and taxes are one of the heaviest and best tools we have to stimulate behavior, and using market forces actively creates green markets. We know that correct changes result in requested results. The Petroleum Tax Regime was last reviewed in a NOU in 2000, more than 15 years ago. During those years there have been major changes in the structure, oil prices, costs and not least in the external framework conditions, such as: relates to climate. Besides, we're in the middle of an energy-related paradigm shift that will necessarily increase in power in the future. If we are to ensure a green shift also in the petroleum sector, it is difficult to avoid tax policy. In the light of the new commitments in the Paris Agreement, it is essential to review whether the Norwegian oil policy and the petroleum tax system are in line with the objectives of the agreement, and the market-driven industry will meet a few generations in time. That the majority in the room don't want it, is sad, but unfortunately not surprising. Fine words are not being filled with the necessary policies and measures this time either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1196	Thank you to the Committee and to the case-rapporteur for a thorough examination of our proposal to wind up Norwegian oil subsidies. The government insists that we do not subsidise our oil business in Norway, while the minority in the Committee suggests that we get a further analysis of how we can shift our tax system, such as: Terje Breivik of the Left made preparations for it now. In the opinion of the Greens, there is no need for an investigation to cut what the government does not want to call subsidies, but rather to call 'food aid'. I can't quite see the difference between ‘nutrition aid’ and ‘subsidy’, but maybe we can come back to a semantic discussion about that. The aid we give to the petroleum industry today is not a direct subsidy to reduce the price to the consumer, it has many speakers right in it, and that is why the IEA does not have us on the list of countries that subsidise fossil energy. But other, at least as well-run organisations, like the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, have us on that list. The IMF assumes that taxation that is not introduced to cover fossil energy use costs is considered to be a subsidy. They assume that if a nation has not imposed a charge that internalises the cost of greenhouse gas costs or costs associated with this loss of tax revenue, it is to be considered as a subsidy. This is a policy for the Green Party to implement in Norway, and the proposal we are promoting is therefore very moderate. Here we are only talking about removing a subsidy that even the Ministry of Finance defines as business support or, in our opinion, a subsidy. If Norway is to be able to live up to the Paris agreement, which we have just signed, then the first step is to liquidate the direct subsidies to the oil industry. We know that three-quarters of our fossil reserves must remain in place if we are to meet the climate targets. Everyone agrees that energy subsidies are a major problem. Therefore, we do not need a semantic process of ‘nutrition aid’ versus ‘subsidy’ — we need to go to the root of the problem. There may be good arguments for subsidising something, and perhaps the government's desire for more diversity among petroleum smelters is seen as reasonable by many. But the truth is that the consequence of signing an ambitious climate agreement in Paris is that all the oil business and all the fossil business have to be discontinued, and we have to start thinking about that idea. And it is interesting that our main market for oil and gas from Norway is the EU, which has an explicit objective of rapid decarbonisation of the entire economy and its entire energy system. It should be easier for Prime Minister Solberg to remove subsidies to international companies looking for oil on a Norwegian base than it is for a developing country to remove subsidies on fuel, which could lead to poor citizens not being able to afford to take the bus. But these are the latter subsidies that our government will survive in its offensive attitude to international oil subsidies. One purpose that was emphasised when the scheme was established was to create more searching on the base at a time when production fell, and it was successful. Norsk Klimastiftelse has produced a report that shows that at least 22.8 billion. kr has been paid in light reimbursement to non-resident companies that have not paid taxes in Norway. Corresponding figures for Norwegian companies are over 5 billion. kr. Another effect of today’s exploration fusion scheme has been to help cut costs on the base, because the exploration activity as known became so high that it put pressure on limited resources. In other words, there are many – and more than those I have mentioned – reasons for starting the liquidation of subsidies to the Norwegian oil industry. One can choose the basis for the decision – increase in costs on the base, subsidies from foreign oil companies when looking for a Norwegian base or the desire to take the climate problem seriously. But the choice should be the same: remove the current food aid for the petroleum industry! I will end by promoting a loose proposal similar to the original proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European I take this up with me the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1219	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1223	First, let me say the following: over the decades, the oil industry has been Norway's most remote industry and has contributed to jobs and huge incomes to the community. In total, the industry has contributed unimaginable 11 000 billion. kr to the Norwegian economy. Oil and gas extraction, as other industrial activities, shall be carried out in an efficient and climate-friendly manner. Here, Norway is in close international, and we will continue to do so. There have been many claims about fossil subsidies and petroleum taxes. These ignore the following key features of Norwegian policy: Norway is a driver of international climate change work. We do not subsidize fuel prices. We have high prices for greenhouse gas emissions. We have a high tax on the extraction of oil and gas. The Paris Agreement is a breakthrough for global climate cooperation. The agreement is the first climate agreement with legally binding obligations for all parties. It is an ambitious agreement, but the targets can only be achieved if all large emitters follow it up. Norway has already reported an ambitious contribution, and we are negotiating joint fulfilment with the EU. In order to minimise greenhouse gas emissions, a price should be set for emissions. If emissions in all countries and all businesses are facing the same price, we will get the greatest possible reductions in emissions for a given effort, and then we will avoid waste. Fossil subsidies are moving in the opposite direction. They act as a negative price of emissions and thus increase greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, they weaken the incentives for energy efficiency improvement and technological development. The IEA has estimated that worldwide use was made of a total of 493 billion in 2014. dollars to reduce domestic energy prices. These fossil subsidies are four times higher than the total renewable energy support. It is therefore positive that several countries are now reducing and phasing out such subsidies. The reduction of fossil subsidies is a natural early step in climate action. Multinational organisations such as the IEA, the OECD, the IMF and the G20 work for the world to move in this direction, and Norway is an active support player in the work. As most people know, the prices of petrol and diesel are not particularly low in Norway. We do not subsidize pump prices. On the other hand, we are charging on the use of fossil energy. Thus, we are not included in the IEA list of countries that subsidise fossil energy use. Among the 40 countries on this list, subsidies are highest in oil producing countries and in some developing countries and emerging economies. As early as 1990, the Syse government proposed a CO2 tax, which was introduced the following year. Today is over 80 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions covered by the quota obligation and the CO2 tax. Emissions then receive a cost that makes it profitable to reduce emissions and develop technology. Although the price of emissions in Norway varies, and some sectors such as agriculture is exempt, prices are broadly welcomed. At the same time, the price of greenhouse gas emissions is consistently high. This has been recognised internationally by Norway and an evaluation group under the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has noted in a report that the combination of comprehensive and high emission prices in Norway is unique worldwide. One of the basic principles of Norwegian petroleum policy has been to ensure the Community a high proportion of extraordinary revenue. So, in addition to ordinary corporation tax, we have a special tax of 53 pst. for petroleum. So the total tax rate is going to be 78 pst. This means that the community receives a high share of the profits on the base. Nor is Norwegian petroleum tax low compared to other oil provinces. The fact that a high proportion of the extraordinary return on the cap is to be attributed to the community has been a basic premise in Norwegian oil policy. At the same time, it is the commercial companies that are to detect findings and expand fields. Therefore, one must also be profitable for the companies after tax and develop profitable resources. The representative points out that there should be problems with the lighter fusion system. It must be based on a misunderstanding. An easy refund gives companies without taxable net income the right to an annual refund of the tax value and exploration costs. The scheme was introduced in 2005 with a view to increasing the number of operators on the Norwegian base and thus strengthening the search activity. However, light retrocession is designed in line with neutral ground interest rates and does not entail any subsidy or tax expense. Light fusion allows new entrants to benefit from deductions at the same early stage as established companies. In summary, I would like to highlight the following: Norway is a driver of international climate change work. We don't subsidize the price of fuel. We have high prices for greenhouse gas emissions. We have a high tax on the extraction of oil and gas. And: the oil industry will continue to be an important industry in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1286	Will the Minister of Finance reject the possibility that the 1.5 degree target may affect the formulation of Norwegian petroleum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1291	As I said at the outset, the Paris Agreement is a breakthrough to which Norway has notified its contribution early on. Of course, it will help put us in the driver's seat to be a driver in international climate work. At the same time, what is produced from oil and gas on a Norwegian base has had great improvements throughout all the decades in which that production has taken place. There have been technological developments that have also contributed to the reduction of emissions from the socket, contrary to what they could have been if technological and environmental improvements had not been achieved. I think that's the relationship we should be proud of. This is an industry that employs an incredible number of people and that has contributed great values to Norwegian society. So I respect that there are parties on Stortinget that want to wind this industry. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1298	I agree with almost everything the finance minister said, but that is not what I asked for. I asked if the Minister of Finance would reject any possibility that the 1.5 degree target could affect the design of Norwegian petroleum policy. The reason why I ask is that the 1.5 degree target in practice halves the world's carbon budget, and then it is both correct and good that the emissions from Norwegian base have been lower than from many other oil producing countries, but the vast majority of petroleum emissions are not from production, but from consumption. You have to completely get away from fossil energy carriers within a given time period in order to reach the 1.5 degree target. So I ask again: is it undisputed for the Minister of Finance that the 1.5 degree target may have an impact on the formulation of Norwegian petroleum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1305	Much of the starting point for climate change settlements, and an enhanced climate settlement, on the basis of which this government is making use of climate policy, is precisely a broad range of instruments to help reduce emissions. I don't think there's much disagreement about that, and I have to say that this government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has contributed to many good decisions that get emissions down, not least by using a wide range of instruments to achieve it. I am pleased with that, because it draws the policy in the right direction, and therefore also the results in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1310	I'm also very much for climate change settlement. I think it's good, and I often commend the efforts of the Left and Christian People's Party to make the government's climate policy better. But that is still not what I asked for, and it must honestly be possible to answer. ‘Third time’s the charm’, as it is said in English, so I ask for the third time: Is it undisputed for the Minister of Finance that the 1.5 degree target may have an impact on the formulation of Norwegian petroleum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1317	I do not think it is possible to answer that question in concrete terms, because I believe there are a lot of factors that affect the choices we make in climate and environmental policy, while taking reasonable and balanced account of the fact that we should also have business development, jobs and income for society, which can help maintain the welfare systems that I believe there is a broad consensus that we should have. It's important to me, and that's why we're working on a wide range of tools to use positive incentives to help reduce emissions, but we have to admit that this has to happen over time. We see from the developments that are taking place, not least in the field of renewable energy production, that there is an incredible amount of exciting happening, but the way away from fossil production is for the time being quite a long time, and then the advantage is that we are able to apply good technological solutions that help to reduce emissions from the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1324	It was almost a shame to take a line from the representative Serigstad Valen, but a little bit in the same street: giving that the world will be closed down by reaching the 1.5 degree goal, today's energy consumption will probably have to be turned around on the head compared to today, i.e. 80 pst. renewable energy in 2050, 2060 and 20 pst. fossil. Even in such a scenario, the world will have demanded 20–25 times more fossil energy than Norway produces today. I understand that the Minister of Finance is concerned about the Norwegian petroleum industry. How will the Minister of Finance ensure that the Norwegian petroleum industry will be able to compete in a situation in which fossil energy really is booming, unless it is helping to enable us to compete with the most climate-friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1331	Many of the challenges facing Norwegian oil and gas-related businesses are due to many complex factors. Not least, we see an international tendency for the price of many commodities to fall. Of course, it also represents a challenge for Norway, which is a commodity producer. When such a large proportion of our employees are tied up in and around oil and gas-related businesses, it makes us vulnerable. We have to recognise that we are going to have a significant oil and gas industry in Norway for many decades to come, while now actively transforming the Norwegian economy to focus investment more on other parts of Norwegian business, so that we get more legs to stand on over time. I think that is sensible and absolutely necessary to do so, especially in a situation where there is at least little evidence that the oil price will rise to old heights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1338	The light fusion mechanism was established as an instrument to stimulate increased exploration activity due to a decline in production. According to the Norwegian Climate Foundation, it's over 22 billion. kr has already been paid to non-resident companies that have never entered the tax position. So this is a system that has a purpose and a cost, and the Council of State insists on calling it industrial aid, and then the International Monetary Fund calls it – without thickeners – for a subsidy, for the same purpose. The question is: can the Council explain what is the difference between aid to industry and subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1346	I can at least explain what the search fusion scheme is. Firstly, it is not a subsidy. It is not Norwegian energy policy to subsidise fossil energy. All farm taxes in Norway, both on land and on the pedestal, are based on net profits being taxed. Therefore, related costs may be deducted before the tax is calculated. Refusing to deduct exploration costs would be like refusing a purchaser a deduction from the cost of purchasing goods. The whole purpose of the lighter fusion system is not to be a subsidy but a measure to equalise actors and increase diversity and competition on the base. The scheme has also helped to increase the number of companies on the pedestal, as well as increased competition and increased diversity of search activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1351	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1356	In the end, the analogy of the Minister of Finance does not result in complete correctness, because a normal merchant does not receive any more deductions for the same expenditure. It is at the heart of this matter that both the interest-rate deduction system and the special tax regime for petroleum result in greater reductions than would otherwise have been the case in the tax system, and it has been stated by the Minister of Finance himself in his letter to the Financial Committee. I want to get back to the question I asked the Minister of Finance, and that's because I think there's a lot of denial here in the main hall. My claim is that if Norway had not been one of the world's leading petroleum producing countries, the deposits from the different batches in the hall would have been quite different. At that time, more attention had been paid to internalising the cost of the use of petroleum in the petroleum tax regime, but it had also been recognised that once the world has agreed on a legally binding agreement with the objective of reducing the anthropogenic temperature increases to 1.5 degrees, it will obviously have an impact on the production of fossil energy carriers in the world. It's really saying itself. Between two-thirds and three-quarters of all known fossil reserves in the world must be untouched in order for us to have a theoretical opportunity to reach the 2-degree target. When you tighten the goal further to 1.5 degrees, I think several of the parts here in the hall pushes in front of me the recognition of what it really means. Not only does this mean that we need to cut even more in our planned fossil energy consumption, but it also means that at the end of the cut-off period, solutions that do not yet exist have to be used to extract unpacked greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. In other words, it requires a much higher level of ambition than even being able to respond to whether there is a possibility that the 1.5 degree target could affect the design of Norwegian petroleum policy. That is what the Minister of Finance says — in three attempts — that she cannot respond. And then she says that because there are so many different factors that affect both the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and that affect Norwegian petroleum policy, it becomes difficult to answer. Well, if there are many unknown and different factors that affect Norwegian petroleum policy, the easiest answer in the world should be: Yes, in fact, the world's goal of reducing anthropogenic climate change to 1.5 degrees could affect the design of Norwegian petroleum policy. In retrospect, this debate will probably be viewed with great interest, because I would say that the vast majority of the representatives present, from the Right, from the Central Party, from the Christian People's Party, from the Workers' Party and even from the Advance Party, really agree in the innermost. They know it's like that, it's just hard to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1365	It is quite clear that a Minister of Finance from the Progress Party will not take a debate on instruments to reduce oil activities in Norway. Of course, there is a complete rhyme with the very clear statements of the National Assembly of the Progress Party, where the objective was clear: every drop of oil must rise! The Minister of Finance's way of expressing it here today has been that it is going to take a very long time before the oil age has passed. But for the other parties, which do not have an explicit objective of extracting each drop of oil, after signing an international agreement that has the sole purpose of removing fossil energy from the world, it must be important to take seriously the debate on the most important instrument in an industry, namely the fiscal instrument. I think Terje Breivik of the Left expressed this well, and I urge that the debate that we have had here, and the proposal that is being voted down today, be closed, because if we are to take climate change seriously in Norway at all, it is necessary to have a realistic debate on the relationship between the tax regime and the tax regime and the development of the oil industry. What we have received today is a repetition of what has been a situation in the Norwegian climate debate for a very long time, that it is about everything other than the most important thing, namely the oil business. That this is treated by a majority in the hall as two completely different things, cannot continue. I note that the majority still will not take this debate seriously, but I look forward to the fact that a debate on taxation and the link between it, oil and the agreement we have signed in Paris will be taken seriously in this Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1384	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Steffensen, for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1393	On behalf of the case rapporteur, Kenneth Svendsen, I would like to begin by thanking the other parties for their good cooperation in a matter of political distance. There is no secret that different parties have different views about the use of non-profit and private enterprises to provide publicly funded welfare services. Despite the political distance, the parties have nevertheless gathered on two different proposals, the essence of both proposals being to ensure that funds going over public budgets go to welfare production. This is positive. Norway has long and good traditions with ideal and private enterprises providing publicly funded welfare services. It had e.g. could not have been carried out without the private kindergartens. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has a pragmatic view of the use of private service providers. What is crucial is not who provides the services, but the quality of service and the price that taxpayers have to pay. It is also important that service providers have incentives to come up with new, innovative and cost-effective solutions. I am particularly pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have come together in this matter. The Ministry of Knowledge has previously set up an expert group to investigate and clarify the legislation on the use of State grants for private schools, and they have had a report on this at the hearing. It is quite natural that the government should follow up by presenting a case to the Stortinget where some amendments and clarifications are proposed in the current legislation, such as the Government Parties and the Left, promote joint proposals. I would also like to spend some time attaching some comments to the SV representative proposal, which is, after all, the reason for the vote. The SV insinuates in its proposal that skilled entrepreneurs starting welfare businesses do so exclusively to build private assets and to milk taxpayers for money. This is a description of reality that I don't know about at all. On the contrary, I feel that the margins are low, and those that start such businesses do this based on real idealism linked to, for example, to provide the best possible child with childhood. It's about people who have a burning desire to give the elderly the best possible age, and by having private and ideal nursing homes and real competition with profit opportunities, we're arranging for different activities, offers and services that make sure that old age can become a party. For example, we see here in Oslo that there are parties that have a dream that we should only have public hospitals, and how well-run nursing homes are now taken over by the public. Although we're all different individuals, and originals in each of our ways, obviously some people think that it's best if we all die as copies. Let me remind you, fortunately, it is not forbidden to make money in this country, and the pursuit of profit is one of the things that has driven innovation and technological development in the West in the last 500 years. I'm not going to pull this debate out in time. I will end by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. I am referring here to what is a minority proposal in the Committee's position, but which is likely to be a majority proposal in the Chamber, proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1412	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1415	This committee is well aware of complex corporate structures and how, in combination with imaginative corporate events, they can help to keep real ownership hidden and in several ways to avoid tax resources. This is a challenge in most areas within and outside the country. When we put on top of this that this can be money that the public has earmarked for the production of common welfare in society, we risk losing the big community twice. Single examples have shown how owners and operators of public welfare not only collect what we can call a normal dividend, but also use corporate events to trade with themselves in secret at good prices and also fail to pay taxes on all the values collected. However, the debate is also marked by single examples and some scandals. It's hard to determine what's actually happening everywhere. Some of the instruments discussed by the Committee in the past, such as ownership registers of actual owners, could probably contribute positively. The government’s decision to close anonymous tax searches may also contribute, but not in a positive direction. Linn Herning, Manifesto, has written the book Welfare Profiters, who are trying to give a better insight into the case complex, but this work cannot be said to be exhaustive. It is also a challenge that, in the concept of ‘privately driven well-being’, it is a combination of very different actors. Maybe it's more right to divide it. On the kindergarten side, there are everything from purely commercial actors to foundations with kindergartens as their purpose, and in between there are farm children's gardens, orphanages and kindergartens in charge of religious communities. Here it would be unfair to claim that everyone has income for the owner as their primary purpose. I don't think many people even have that on the list of things they're busy with. But not all associations run kindergarten through a foundation, for example. They can be organized in an AS. So it's also not going to be right to draw a dividing line between the forms of companies. It is also not always comprehensive. In nursing homes and care you can see something of the same picture, even though the actors are often larger in this area. The point is that I assume that when this will grant community funds, or – as I know others like to call it – taxpayers' money, for the purpose of well-being, it is enough in the hope that it will provide the most and the best possible well-being for those who need it. I might be able to claim that you have to be reasonably blue-eyed to think that you're going to get more and better well-being when you're also going to sit on top and make big profits, but leave that debate behind. That's not what this is about in this round. I hope that in this case we can have a common interest in getting a better overview of the sector, that we can know more about how the money moves, where they end up, and what they've produced on the road. The majority of the Committee, which is not the majority in the Chamber, has a proposal to call on the government to set up a public body to identify what is actually happening in the private welfare production sector and its scope. I think it is regrettable that the majority in the Chamber will not have an independent NOW on this. It is, however, positive, as the rapporteur-in-Office also said, that the Storting will now properly ask the Government to present a case in which amendments and clarifications are proposed in the existing legislation that ensure that public funds that go to fund well-being actually end up doing so. It can contribute to a necessary tightening up, but it would have been good to have a larger review in this big field, and I'm a little uncertain as to why you don't want independent knowledge and think it's so dangerous to get in this area. I will also report that the Workers' Party will vote subsidiaryly for the minority's proposals in this case, but we had of course hoped that the parties in the minority in the vote would also vote in favour of our proposal, because I think it could be a lot to profit from for all of us to get a slightly larger investigation. Had it been as simple as just tightening up today's legislation and changing something here and there, I think you'd probably have done it for the longest time in the Ministry of Finance. Because I don't really suspect them to want to spend money that doesn't go to the welfare production we're all busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1441	In Norway, we have long and good traditions with ideal and private enterprises as suppliers of publicly funded welfare services, and there is broad consensus in Norway that welfare services should be financed by the public as a general rule. The inconsistency is about who has to produce the services. Right has a pragmatic view of this – for us, it is not decisive who provides the services, important factors are quality and price. A lack of providers of welfare services provides a wider range of services for the individual and for the state or municipality responsible for the service. Therefore, public, non-profit and private enterprises should provide publicly funded welfare services. Healthy competition contributes to better quality and service development. This is also reflected in the Health Declaration, which states: ‘The government will facilitate private and voluntary initiatives and release more people into the welfare service. It will create more innovation, greater freedom of choice and a more varied offering to a variety of users.’» Kindergartens is a good example of a service for which municipalities are responsible, where private providers help municipalities to fulfil their obligations to provide children with nursery facilities. SV leader Kristin Halvorsen promised in 2005 full kindergarten coverage before the end of 2007. SV showed a pragmatic page as they wanted to bring them privately to ensure the large-scale kindergarten development. And in the SV state councils they own St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009, Kindergarten Quality, says: ‘Private actors have been drivers and continue to play an important role in the kindergarten sector.’ Today, private kindergartens make up about half of the nursery provision. Child protection is often provided by private institutions to provide good services to children and young people who need it. The scheme is also an example of a private service provider with high user satisfaction. Nor had we been able to reduce the health situation without large contributions from private and non-profit organisations, and in the case of care for the elderly, such as the elderly. Here in Oslo, private welfare providers have contributed to the provision of high quality. It is sad to note, then, that for the new city council, ideology is more important than maintaining quality private supply. This is an example of how a lack of quality in well-being, to create good supply and to inspire the public sector. We need both the skills, the capital, the creativity and the capacity of the private sector, and there is nothing wrong with private players being financially sound and making money. However, it is important to stress that the public imposes quality requirements and follows up the services in a good manner. We can see the need for more knowledge about the use of public funds in welfare tasks provided by commercial providers, but we do not see the need to downgrade a public selection to ‘ chart cash flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends’, as the proposal states. We are of the opinion that such a selection will not have any real possibility to be a kind of review selection. The government is already working in the Ministry of Knowledge to sort out and clarify legislation on the use of government grants, on transparency, reporting requirements, legal regulation of trade in related goods and a legal clarification of the condition that public funds should benefit students. We are pleased that the government is busy with the problem. We refer to our proposal, and in the light of the work of the Ministry of Knowledge, we look forward to the government's being able to present a case to the Stortinget in which they propose changes and clarifications in current legislation relating to a broad political desire that public funds should go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being, and how one can prevent unwanted tax adaptation in companies that are mainly funded by public funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1473	There are not many words the political left connects with stronger negative signs than profit. It's really quite incomprehensible, because profit strictly means nothing more than that someone makes money and goes with surplus, a very necessary factor for us all – including the opponents of profit – to enjoy increased purchasing power and free trade, for example. through wage negotiations. So I thought it would be reasonable to say, given the fear that Wickholm's representative felt in his post, so that one could find actors who really exploit and speculate in this: the fear is considerably greater after eight years with a red-green government that disapproves of the private players – small, often as ideal actors as the ideal organisations – with direct housekeeper contracts and demands that made very many see themselves forced to sell to larger actors. In that case he makes some rice for himself. The left is for those who run stores, businesses or sell services, make money and go with excess. I found it unproblematic that some people are able to spend money on running kindergartens or hospitals, so that they have the same supply and quality as the corresponding public supply. I can't find any evidence that the supply will be better and cheaper only if it is operated under municipal, county or state control. At the same time, of course, I am very much in favour of the public being given the most well-being for the money that is used to buy welfare services produced by private or non-profit providers. Me and the left are also because we check regularly and control that money to go to welfare production is actually doing it. Of course, the Left is against each other a bypass of – or creative models to bypass – demands made by public authorities related to financial support and permissions. The use of this tool in today's settings boils down strictly to how such a control should be done. The majority in the Committee would like a public selection to be set down to ‘monitor monetary flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related persons, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends’, based on a corresponding distribution that takes place in Sweden, following the demands of the Left Party to support the government’s government budget — seemingly lenient and easy to attend. How a public selection should be able to identify cash flows, during this trade between adjacent, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation, etc., without simultaneously taking legal action against those to be surveyed, seems to me to be difficult, not to say impossible. And as far as I've been able to check, the Swedish distribution doesn't work on hamlets either. The distribution work has been postponed by one year, and something will be presented in May 2017. But again: I share the view that there may be a need for more knowledge about the use of public funds on welfare tasks provided by commercial providers. I just mean that the path if a NOU is both unnecessary and crooked, and the result will probably not be proportionate to the time and resource use such work necessarily requires. For this reason, the Left has taken the initiative of the proposal, which today has a majority in the Chamber, that the government should put forward a case for the Grand Duchy in its own right. ‘where amendments and clarifications are proposed in the applicable legislation ensuring that public funds used to purchase services from private or non-profit institutions serving households go to high-quality, cost-effective service production, and proposals for preventing undesirable tax adaptations in companies that are mainly financed by public funds.’;» I therefore look forward to the intervention by the Minister of Finance a little later in the debate, where I expect her to provide some information on how this can happen in practice and be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1493	In the English Channel lies the island of Guernsey. Guernsey is characterised by high levels of secrecy and strikingly low tax rates. Guernsey, in other words, is a tax haven in the right sense of the word and is referred to by most people like it. Guernsey is also a central kindergarten actor in Norway who was owned for a number of years, and we do not know exactly why. Why is it logical that a welfare provider in Norway should be owned from a tax haven? Guernsey may be a pedagogical centre for kindergarten education, but I doubt it. I think there are other reasons why tax havens are a nice place to add ownership to big welfare actors. Both the Advance Party and the Right have almost indicated that today’s discussion is about whether you are in favour of or against private providers of well-being. It's not. First of all, there's a little bit of an artificial distinction. If there is such a distinction in the matter we are discussing today, it is rather between ideal and commercial providers. The representative Steffensen spoke about the real idealism underlying the provision of commercial welfare services. Well, I think idealism is more present at e.g.. The Church's Bymission than with a commercial actor. It's quite obvious, because the Church's Bymition operates welfare offers of ideal intentions and not to make money, as commercial ones do. So Steffensen partially corrected it by pointing out that the need for profit or the pursuit of profit is an important driving force. He may think so, but in that case I look forward to the Progress Party, for example. shall propose the introduction of profits in private schools in Norway, if it is such a driving force. If it is possible to obtain profits from a publicly funded welfare service to create better services, it is strange that not the Progress Party, for example. make it possible within the school system. What this issue is about is not the view of private providers of welfare services. It's about knowing what's going on with taxpayers' money, and that's something I would normally think would create enthusiasm and ovations in the Minister's own party. When we spend hundreds of millions of dollars – if not billions of dollars – of taxpayers' money on buying welfare offers from commercial providers, we in this room have earned to know how this money is spent. The representative Terje Breivik is usually a visionary man, but in this case he argues in circle. He says that since we don't know how the cash flows are in commercial well-being today, it's hard to figure it out, and that's why we don't want to try. I have quite the opposite approach: as private welfare providers form an increasingly large part of the welfare in Norway, it is important that we know where the money goes, especially with the background that we know that a number of the largest commercial welfare actors in Norway have links with, for example, Norway. tax havens, and when we have the Westerdals thing going on in the Control and Constitutional Committee, where we see that very creative approaches are being used to raise money even by sectors where profits are not allowed. Well, profit is a lot more than dividends. Profite can be extracted from well-being in both lawful ways, in ways found in the grey zone, and unlawfully. I wish there was a majority for a proper investigation today, because this is something we need to know about, completely regardless of what you think about private well-being. It would be thought that, in particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which are in favour of more privatisation and more private service providers in the welfare sector, had been able to report on the table showing how well this works, how each taxpayer pays a tax credit, gets in care or in good teaching. But they won't. And I think that's reason to ask why they don't want to. The government is otherwise very happy with investigations. We have a lot of them. We have investigated precisely these issues before, at a more general level through the Capital Refugees Committee, but just when it comes to private welfare providers – even in the middle of a case where a number of students at a private college in Oslo have been tricked for 87 million. NOK – even then you do not want an investigation. I think I know why, but I'm going to refrain from saying it out of fear of being clubbed for non-parliamentary expressions. What I should say, however, is that I am very pleased that it is possible to vote in favour of minority proposals subsidiaryly. It's a start. As Terje Breivik, I also welcome the measures the Minister for Finance has planned to come with to ensure that taxpayers' money goes to well-being and not to the profit of tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1508	We're in this room busy giving money, and at least one committee is very busy seeing how the money is spent. This applies both to the public sector and should also apply where we grant money used by others on behalf of the Community and ensure that what is the purpose of the appropriations is also followed up in practice. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is what this matter is primarily about. Let me just join those who say that this is not a matter in which one should first of all express his fundamental assessments of who is the best service provider of the public or private – or, as we in the Christian People's Party would like to think, that it is the ideals that are preferable – but it is to make sure that we know that the money we grant is also used in line with the purpose. Therefore, with the adaptation that was made in the consideration of this proposal, and which has now gone into what is the majority position of the committee, it is simply to get a mapping and, based on it, perhaps to look at some of the procedures we have in the public sector just to ensure that the money we grant is used in line with the assumptions. And it's not immaterial, I think, to point to an ongoing case of a school that obviously has not used the funds in line with the legislation, and one might ask if the legislation has been such that it has been discovered too late. I also know that the government is concerned about this, so I am excited about how the Ministry of Knowledge will follow up the specific matter, and whether it has any consequences in the general legislation. We then vote in favour of the setting that exists. It is likely to be turned around in the Chamber, but, as others have said, we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal by the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Since I'm going to try to be effective, I'm just going to report – since I didn't have the floor for different reasons in the previous case – that we're going to vote in favour of proposal No. 3 and 4 in the previous case. It was announced in the committee that we would consider it until the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1519	Let me start by saying that the public has great pleasure in the efficient delivery of good services by private traders. A variety of providers of publicly funded welfare services – both public, private and non-profit – provide a wider range of services for the individual and for the State or municipality responsible for the service. Healthy competition contributes to increased quality and development of services. Regardless of whether the service provider is public, non-profit or private, it is important that the public make clear quality requirements and follow up the services in a good manner. And it's not unreasonable for private service providers in publicly funded welfare services to take out a surplus to finance capital in the business. Then, as the debate has also said, there have been uncertainties in the regulation and supervision of government grants and self-payment at private colleges and colleges. For this reason, the Ministry of Knowledge set up an expert group to investigate the matter, and the government will submit proposals for re-regulation of grants and self-payment at private colleges and colleges at the hearing. But I do not think there is a need to set up a public body with the mandate proposed in this case. I do share the concerns of the proposers about aggressive tax planning, but at the same time I believe that we should, as far as possible, create tax rules that apply equally to the whole of business. Appropriate provisions for certain types of companies will result in a complex tax system and more bureaucracy. The government is very concerned about limiting unwanted tax adjustment for all companies, regardless of the sector in which the companies operate and where they receive their income. We have proposed a tax reform with a number of measures to limit the ability of international companies to move profits from Norway. The government's proposal also contains measures that will limit the possibilities for tax adjustment through trade between related and thin capitalisation, which proposers in particular are making. In the 2016 government budget, we tightened up the so-called interest-rate limitation rule that prevents profit-moving through the use of internal debt financing within multinational companies. In the tax communication, the government proposes to tighten the interest-rate limitation rule further by including external debt. Thus, it will be even more difficult for companies, regardless of the sector in which they operate, to make use of so-called thin capitalisation. We have also proposed introducing a source tax base for interest and royalty payments abroad, which will limit the possibility of moving profits from Norwegian companies to related companies abroad. The issue of tax avoidance is also of an international nature and requires international solutions, and Norway, through various governments, has been a driver for combating cross-border tax evasion. The efforts that have been made for a long time have led to our having today one of the world's largest contract networks, which ensure the exchange of tax information between countries. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, has been leading the process of concluding an information exchange agreement with countries that were previously completely closed to transparency. And the government is now following the recommendations of the OECD and the G20 BEPS project. These are the most extensive changes in international taxation that have ever been presented. The recommendations will strengthen the international standards for taxation, including the guidelines for pricing goods and services sold between related parties. The challenges of profit-moving are the same for private companies regardless of industry, and in parts of the welfare sector we have our own provisions limiting the possibility of taking dividends from the operation. It may require specific restrictions on internal transactions in such companies. However, it should be regulated in agreements and regulations in these areas and not in tax legislation, which should be equal to all companies. Then I just have to say in conclusion: once I have heard the debate, I think that some of the speeches echo a fundamental suspicion directed at private care providers. I think that's a pity, and I think it's a derailment from what should really be a good and general discussion, about how we're going to work more – both at home and in particular out here – to get good international agreements that help clean up what we want to avoid, namely tax evasion, tax evasion and closed jurisdictions. And we are doing this very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1542	As I tried to say in my post, the debate on this topic has been marked by individual cases that have given a negative impression of some parts of the industry. I think it'll be an advantage for all of us to clean it up. The Academy in Bergen has been sentenced to pay a lot of money, Westerdals has been mentioned here, and there are also other examples, which the Minister of Finance probably knows about. I agree with the Minister of Finance that many measures will be general, as the Minister of Finance is concerned. But does the Minister of Finance agree that, as a government, we have a special responsibility to ensure that taxpayers' money is just about to produce welfare for the same taxpayers and not disappear on the road in some mysterious way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1547	Once again, this cheese of suspicion comes from Wickholm, a representative from the Workers' Party. I'm simply fundamentally in disagreement with that. I am in order for taxpayers' money to be managed efficiently, I am in order for us to get as much money as possible back for every single penny. But I am also in favour of having good competitive framework conditions for private Norwegian business, because they contribute to the financing of our welfare society. So on the one hand, we can't express a general suspicion to private people, because they're the bearer of funding for the public welfare community, and then cover up the fact that we really need better regulation. We work for better regulation, but it should apply to everyone, whether they are private health and care providers or they operate in completely different parts of Norwegian business. We're going to have equal rules, we're going to have good rules, and we're going to have transparency. It works for this government, and I just want to ask for the suspicion that Wickholm says you should stop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1552	Now I think the finance minister is trying to draw up some disagreements that are not there. I think there's a lot of good, private welfare providers out there, and I think that the very many good, private welfare providers are earned that we're trying to get through this matter, clean up, get more knowledge and know what's actually going on, just to avoid having these discussions in the future. The Minister of Finance, with his political views, would also be well served, I think. Instead of accusing me of suspicion, you might be able to contribute a little more constructively, you could see if it was possible to some extent with more transparency about how to spend taxpayers' money. Welfare production, which takes place under municipal authority, is, of course, subject to great democratic control by the local authorities. Is it unmistakable to consider any more transparency relating to the use of taxpayers' money for the production of welfare for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1559	I'm a member of openness. I am in favour of managing taxpayers' money well, and that the goal must be to get more for every penny of the taxpayers' money we spend, and that we do not always have to measure the results based on how much increase in funding we give for different purposes. I also agree that we would have been better off not having these discussions, but that is a reason why they come up. They come up at regular intervals and in particular in the context of election campaigns, where there is a constant focus on specific suspicions against private operators operating within specific segments. It concerns health, care and education in particular. I do not understand that actors who want to establish alternative services for these sectors should rightly be accused of having dishonest intentions or motivations for what they are doing. On the contrary, I believe that for them, too, there should be a similar set of rules, based on transparency and transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1566	It is almost like a crusade against private efforts in welfare production in Norway. From what I have read of history, the Norwegian prison system is the only thing we have of in a way common welfare production that has not been made by private people. Our hospitals, our kindergartens, our crisis centers -- everything started with the private ones. I wonder when we hear how terrible they are – driving the money to Jersey and looking very little at the female entrepreneurs who have started many of the kindergartens, who have ensured that we have achieved equality in this country, for example.Are there any estimates, Minister of Finance, of how much we gain from the participation and innovation that lies in the private actors just versus the image that is created here, that they are the worst opt-outs in the Norwegian tax system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1573	Thank you for a very good question. I'll see if there are any calculations on that. At least we have calculations from the experience we have with sectors that we have opened up to more competition, which were previously monopolised. The effects of the sectors we have opened up to competition, multiple actors and diversity have been exclusively for the benefit of consumers. Prices have fallen. The offer has increased and has been greatly improved. Technology is at full speed into many of these services and gives us welfare improvements. I think the representative Skei Grande and I fully agree that we need to avoid the kind of suspicion that I think underlies the proposal that is being discussed in this Chamber, and I am very pleased that it does not get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1580	You have to listen carefully when the Advance Party doses suspicion. It's an exercise they're masters in. What we can draw from the debate here is that it's okay to suspect cohabitants, single mothers, Muslims and Africans, but suspects that private welfare providers have repeatedly withdrawn more money from the community than they're allowed to – no, where the Minister of Finance and the Progress Party go. And it's okay to bring it with you. Instead, the exchange between the representative Skei Grande and the Minister of Finance would indicate that this is a debate for or against private providers of welfare. But then I say for the fourth time: the question here is what to do to prevent taxpayers' money from going to something other than welfare. So I want to ask the Minister of Finance what measures she is going to take as a result of today's decisions in the Storting to prevent unwanted tax adjustment in private welfare and to prevent taxpayers' money from being withdrawn from the community and spent on something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1587	As I said in my main post, I think we should do the same for this sector as for all other industries when we are going to create instruments to avoid unwanted tax adjustment. It's a general issue I'm serious about, and I've spent a lot of time both at home and outside, because I think it's important that we get better regulation in this area. I think I should remind the representative Serigstad Valen of a success story that SV has had a lot to do with, namely the kindergarten reform. It had never become reality in the world without private actors – it had not been possible for Kristin Halvorsen and SV to deliver results on full child care coverage without the involvement of private actors in that sector. I think that the representative Serigstad Valen and SV should be a little more concerned to talk positively about, rather than now having gone over the very opposite side of the line and the cheese of general suspicion towards the same sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1594	I have to admit that this is an eye-catchingly low rhetorical level from a government council in the hall. This concerns both the previous case we were dealing with, and the case we are dealing with now, where the Minister of Finance insists on making statements on something other than the Stortinget will deal with. This is probably something the Minister for Finance and his colleagues have learned from the debate in the Progress Party, but it does not continue the debate here in the Chamber. So for the fifth time, I now say: this debate is not about whether you are for or against private providers of well-being, but how to ensure that the money taxpayers give for well-being, goes to the actual production of well-being. The kindergarten reform is a very good example, precisely because it was used by many private actors, who were formerly these female entrepreneurs Skei Grande talked about, and who later became heavy commercial companies owned by tax havens. Then there's a reason to take an extra round, precisely because it's about caring for some of the weakest people in our society, and not a sausage-bub. So I ask again, President,... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1601	The President believes he has understood the question – and the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1604	What concrete measures does the Minister for Finance intend to take...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1610	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1613	I basically answered Serigstad Valen's question before he asked it, namely in my main post. I was very clear and clear that what we have to do is make sure to have tax rules that are the same for the whole of business, no matter what kind of activity you're involved in. I think it's a fundamental prerequisite that we have equal legislation, also because it's simplifying, because it applies to everyone, and because it reduces bureaucracy. And so am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1618	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1623	I've been so happy about this. This is because we rarely or never take time for debates in the Great Britain of a more general principle nature. In this field, it can really be needed, because rarely does it fall into as many anecdotes as we do when we discuss such questions as today, and there are many attempts to conceal what it really is about. In a chronicle in the Newspaper some time ago, Civita's leader, the well-known former Right Politician Kristin Clemet, proposed to settle the distinction between non-profit and commercial activity. This is justified by the fact that idealists are found as often among commercials as with non-profit and public actors, for example. in the welfare sector. When even such a sharply-scrupulous social debater as Clement comes up with such an explanation model, you have to look up. There is an analysis that the right-hand side would like to attach. Of course, there are idealists and unselfish people in all camps, whether public, non-profit or private. But it is not primarily the degree of idealism or heartwarming that constitutes the difference between ideal and commercial actors; it is how the economy of the business is rigged, what the main objectives are, and what kind of driving forces are established through different forms of ownership. In the latter years, the difference between non-profit and commercial actors in the welfare sector to all over-targets has become much greater, because we have seen an increasing groupization among commercial actors. This, in turn, means that small, private enterprises, entrepreneurs and non-profit actors are under pressure in large parts of the welfare sector. They just disappear. Both in Sweden and — gradually — in Norway, a very large commercial group, with both national and international interests, has taken over the competitive, commercial part of, for example, the care for the elderly. These are actors that are seeking maximum returns on their invested crowns and cancelling operations accordingly. There is no suspicion, that's just the way the matter is. In a labour-intensive sector such as This represents an additional pressure on staff, wages and pensions, which amounts to between 80 and 85 pst. of the costs. This does not mean, of course, that employees in commercial businesses are less serious in their work or have a less idealistic view than those working in non-profit and public activities. However, the pressure on cost reduction in these types of commercial enterprises can become so high over time that the quality of the services is again affected. The research we have in this field clearly shows that this is happening. The civil government has stated in its government statement that services in the welfare sector do not differ from other goods and services production, so it is good to consider elderly care and car production as two sides of the same case. But the objections to such a view are many, and I hope that we will be on our way for a while today – unless otherwise we can get better insight into how money flows go in the private welfare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1640	Society faces challenging societal challenges in the next decades related to an increasing number of elderly, new user groups and shortages of health and social workers. This was already turned on in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 and repeated in the mandate of the public inquiry on innovation in care in 2011. When the Hagen Committee presented its report, Minister of Industry Trond Giske said: ‘We need to have a care sector that sees export opportunities – of expertise, technology, institutional and residential buildings – and a caring business.’ I could not agree more. Therefore, it is strange to see the attitude of private individuals in the care sector from the left in Norwegian policy. In Oslo, for ideological reasons, the Labour Party is pushing private out of the care sector, despite the fact that for almost two decades they have provided services that score on top of users and relatives, have low sick leave and high well-being among employees. In addition, they have reduced costs, so that the municipality of Oslo has had more money to spend on other services for its inhabitants. Then it's about for or against. For let us not hide what the original proposal really is: a fundamental suspicion of all private services in the public sector. How in the world are you going to get a business that is concerned with care, that innovates and develops services we need, when these are the attitudes they meet? If we're going to have a caring business, whether it's companies that develop welfare technology, social entrepreneurs, or other service providers to the public sector, I assume that these run seriously. If they do not do so, it shall be reduced to the same level as for any other enterprise that violates the environmental protection law, pursues social dumping or reduces taxes. Whether we need new guidelines or need to tighten laws, of course we should, and I expect the government to have this as part of its continuous work for a serious working life in Norway. I'm 100 pst. agree with the proposers that we should be critical of the use of taxpayers’ money to maximise them to create good welfare services for all those who need it. I just wish the left side were equally critical of the use of taxpayers' money in all other contexts as well. It is perfectly legitimate that companies, including in the care sector, which provide such good services that users, employees and orderers are satisfied, can take out profits. Then we can get more people who are willing to invest money in a sector where we need diversity and innovation, and more, not fewer, engaged suppliers. A healthy interaction between the public, private and non-profit sectors raises all three. Satisfied users and employees who thrive are the goal. Diversity and competition are the means. Don't let ideology stand in the way of the good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1660	I guess that's not how the Right is unknown to letting ideology be the only driver of their actions. If you want to discuss Oslo, which started selling more municipal kindergartens, with the result that the employees stopped and applied for other places in the municipality and there was a lot of rebellion among the parents, it was probably not as much as ideology that drove that process. But that's kind of not what we're trying to have a discussion about here. We're trying to have a discussion about how we can make sure the community's money goes to produce the most and the best possible services for the community. I don't need to suspect anyone. I think a lot of people have good intentions. I think there are many beautiful women entrepreneurs out there – who Trine Skei Grande is busy with – but I think we've seen too many examples of how someone in this area is trying to enrich themselves. I feel that as a representative of a good part of the population in Norway, I want to do something about that. So Siv Jensen says she's happy that the Roman number proposal is not being adopted. Well, the Roma proposal is really nothing but the minority proposal, except that there is someone other than the Minister of Finance to do it. There shall be an independent selection, a NOU, it is just not she, in her office, that shall do so. It's going to be the same thing, but it's either she or someone independent who's going to do it. Why she's so happy that someone independent shouldn't do that, is a little strange. I don't know if she was just caught up in the debate with Snorre Serigstad Valen. I think you could have a little less shoulder when you discuss these things, for example.Is it okay when we see the kindergarten group taking up big loans to speculate in the oil industry? What if the speculations fail, everything goes bankrupt? Who's going to run the kindergartens? Is that public? Should we jointly take the risk of other people's speculations? Are they themselves going to take any financial risk for it by paying something back? Probably not, and it's because ownership is arranged in such a way that they end up not having to pay anything. How do we deal with issues like this as a society? I wish more people were interested in finding out more about it. I think it's like this would have been easy to sort out, and if the finance minister had had all the solutions, she would probably have done something about it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1680	It was really the representative Knutsen who made me take the floor, because it really makes me wonder when you start talking about ‘consernification’, that there have become large groups. Yes, why have there been large groups in areas where we know that there are small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship and non-governmental organisations that have been the base? Well, for example, for those of us who have followed the kindergarten for a long time: there are many small entrepreneurs, many female entrepreneurs who have been on, but under the regime of private kindergartens for the last eight years and under the previous government, all of them were forced into large groups because they did not have operating contracts, they did not have clear agreements with the municipality. And if you're a lonely, single, founder, woman who's spent all of her money on a kindergarten building to have the best possible kindergarten for the kids, then you didn't have a chance – you had to sell the kindergarten to the big groups. So this pursuit of taking the big bastards, which is guaranteed to exist - it's not sure 'dream bag' is a parliamentary expression, I'm withdrawing it. There are people who are exploiting this system, but the policy we are making in this room is part of determining whether it's those who win, or whether it's the small entrepreneurs who win. And when we talk about this field like it's the big ones -- who are the people who use the system -- that's the template, we make a code that takes the little ones. The operating system created for private kindergartens under the previous government took on so many entrepreneurs, and this led to the emergence of large groups. It is the ‘consernification’ of the representative Knutsen. I believe that we should create a system that facilitates entrepreneurs, facilitates people who think new, facilitates people who dare to bet – including in this area. But then we can't deal with them so that it's just the big ones that we really want to live, that survive, because they have lawyers enough, they're big enough, they have a big enough machine. I will fight for the little ones. It's the little ones who are really involved in developing our welfare state and our welfare services in a good way. And then we can't run a policy here as if all single ladies who run some small business have their offices in Guernsey, because they don't. The reality out there is completely different, and then we have to have a system that takes the big ones, that needs to be taken. And then we really have to stop talking about the small ones as if they were the biggest ones, which have to be taken to push for financial transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1687	You have to listen more attentively when the left side, or socialists, who probably also call themselves there, starts talking with concern about taxpayers' money. You can see where the tax revenue of the state comes from. They come from successful economic operations, not just within this small field we're talking about here: welfare production, but they come from private-sector businesses, private-sector, where people put their own money, take a risk, and then they get a reward if they deliver goods at a competitive price and with an acceptable and competitive quality. It also means that we have answered the question from Truls Wickholm about the risks of individual kindergartens owned by private individuals. What's going on? Well, of course, like all other independent organizations outside the state, they work under the pressure that they must be capable, and they must be looking for waste, identifying weaknesses in the value chain. They also obviously get much greater results in rewarding attendance, they have lower sick leave, and they also have a pay policy that prevents them from undermining similar positions in the public sector. The problem that the proposers are trying to address with this proposal is non-existent, from a taxpayer's point of view, but it can be a major problem for the state if a fence outside entrepreneurs from a large community area and not getting out of innovation, does not get new ways to drive, does not apply technological achievements and the whole innovation power that lies in that people might get out of it with a little profit if they do well and efficiently. And it was supposed to be the first to be grateful, above all, for, without profit in the private sector, not a single representative in this room had a salary, because we base our earnings on the profits of the private sector, whether it's the welfare sector or the usual production life. The Profitt terminology of SV is not suitable for surprise, but I have to say that the Workers' Party, which, after all, has some representatives who are not quite far from manufacturing life, should throw itself on this wave with its ominous contributions from Tove Karoline Knutsen and the representative Wickholm, do not promise well for the future program work in that party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1698	I think it's important to be knowledge-based when we're talking about quality and price and that kind of thing in these vulnerable welfare services, because that's what we're talking about. There we have research showing that ideal and public drivers of these most vulnerable services, such as care for the elderly, do the best in the long term, especially when we get into the large commercial groups. For this purpose, research has been carried out in Sweden, in other European countries and in the United States, and NOVA is also working on the development of research in this area. I listened carefully to the representative Skei Grande. In fact, the ‘consernification’ that she talked about, and that I am concerned about, has not only happened in Norway. It's been done in large monn, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden, under the bourgeois government, which had a long government there. Finally, there were three–four large groups dealing with all elderly care, the privatised care of the elderly, in Sweden. That's where the little entrepreneurs came out one by one. Here in Norway I have seen and know entrepreneurs who have chosen to sell to large groups who wanted to buy, and that was not because they did not have an agreement with the public, but because they were seen to earn it. I don't criticize them for that, but the question is whether we've earned these groups into the most vulnerable welfare areas. It's about innovation. Yeah, that's very important. I had in a way expected large, wealthy companies that run the care of the elderly to be more innovative than they are. That's actually not how it is. A lot of people do, but there's a lot of people in public too. As far as technological developments are concerned, which are going to revolutionize — perhaps — many of the welfare services on which we are going to become dependent, it is happening in private enterprises, in colleges and, for example, in schools. in Light Energy in Rogaland, which has very exciting things going on. Of course, public cooperation with these enterprises is required. They provide very important knowledge of how to care. So someone's talking about Oslo. There is a lot of good care for the elderly, for example. in Oslo, in both the private, the ideals and the public hospitals, not least because the employees do a fantastic job. But it's not more than half a year since it was discovered that the bourgeois city council kept important information on hospital operations in private hospitals secret, on the grounds that these were business secrets. It's not credible, so it just shows some of the problems we have with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1709	I decided to take the floor when I heard comments from the representative of Truls Wickholm. As a member of the Financial Committee, there should be some basic knowledge of the composition of limited liability companies. It is claimed that it is unsafe in Norwegian kindergarten. There are doubts as to whether an owner who is also engaged in the oil industry, in a completely different company, should have an influence on how a kindergarten company operates. It's almost not to believe that it comes from a member of the Stortinges Finance Committee. Tove Karoline Knutsen talked a little bit about knowledge-based approach. In the nine years before I became a staggering representative, I worked as a market manager in Trygge Barnehager, Norway's largest founder, owner and manager of kindergartens. It started with parents not having a kindergarten and then started their own kindergarten. The following year, they were contacted by someone else who wondered if they could give them any advice, and after that, they put it on. These are entrepreneurs who create jobs in Norway. Then it went on to parents in ratios in all Norwegian states and in most medium-sized and large Norwegian municipalities. I remember a fantastic story from the lake, where I met two ladies who wanted to start their own private kindergarten. I traveled up, found an empty space for them, established a contract and sent an application to the municipality on behalf of these ladies. We were supposed to be entrepreneurs. Do you know what the Workers' Party in the Lake of Mosque said? They would not approve the application because it came from two ladies who did not have solid equity in their back. They said that you should run a kindergarten, and that you should be the owner of a barn. It was an incredible experience to see that it was the Workers' Party that ran on for the group, while the group would have local ownership in the sea. That nursery is well run that day today. It's a fantastic commitment to private kindergartens. The vast majority of kindergartens that I know – and I know a lot of them – have collective agreements. When I established these kindergartens and looked at the applications to get a job in them, there's no great exaggeration to say that over half of the applications to work in these private kindergartens came from people who already had a job in the municipal kindergartens. That's also an important point, as well as having a high level of commitment. The parents choose. I believe the reason that many parents today give up small kindergartens is that it has become complicated, it is approaching full child care coverage and the municipalities are in strong competition with them. Thus, it is safer to get help from a group rather than to get out of competition from the municipality, when what they actually want is to run their own nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1721	I have to say that I am a little over the debate. On the one hand, both the Minister of Finance and many representatives of different parties have said that there is concern about the extent of tax evasion, tax planning and how money to go to welfare can end elsewhere. But then, eventually, there has been a steady flow of posts in which you reject any problem. That's kind of weird. The representative Tetzschner went farthest. He said the problem is non-existent. It's a mildly exotic statement in the middle of the Panama Papers scandal and the ongoing case around Westerdals. If there's something in the last few weeks that's shown us, it's that the problem is mostly present. It is not surprising that public welfare is being opened up not only to non-profit actors, which no one here has anything against, but also to commercial actors who are aiming at delivering profits to their owners, that some unprofessional actors are also involved. This very unwillingness to just say that it can be a problem, so we need more knowledge about it, surprises me. In most other cases where we know that there is a problem in our society, but we have no knowledge of the problem of being able to do something about it, it's a favorite exercise both from the government and from the Stortingets to start an investigation. So let's figure out what the cash flow is. Let's find out if that's how money was going to be spent on care for the elderly, on child protection, on mental health services or on measures in rehab companies that have been offered in Nav, she can't have gone to what they were supposed to, but she's gone to get some profit instead. Even the most thought-out followers of market liberalism solutions must be accompanied by as transparent and well-functioning a market as possible and by as much information as possible on the functioning of the market. While here, on the contrary, when you raise the issue, at a time when we know that billions of dollars disappear out of Norway and into tax havens, in a period when we know that private providers of school services have reorganized their companies to generate profits – even then it's full defence mode once you point to the possibility that it might be a problem. I think that's a shame. I think the proposal that the Left, Right and Advance Party are promoting today is much better than the speeches by the representatives of the same parties. Perhaps the prospect of the Panama Papers scandal has already begun to lie down. We are going to support the proposal of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left subsidiary because it gives us the opportunity to have this debate many times in the future, where the Minister of Finance may even respond to what concrete measures she intends to take to ensure that taxpayers' money goes to well-being and does not end up abroad in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1728	Several speakers have referred to the private kindergartens in this debate, and several have also called for a more knowledge-based debate. I recommend all of you to read the report that the Ministry of Knowledge has just launched. Telemark research has been asked over the years to follow developments in costs and benefits in private kindergartens, and it shows some quite interesting features. The personnel costs of the non-municipal kindergartens have decreased, while the profits of the non-municipal kindergartens have increased. There has never been such a single increase from 2013 to 2014, and this is because the grant to the private kindergartens has increased from 96 pst. to 100 pst. in relation to the municipalities. It may seem quite correct, but then you have to look at what kind of service is provided. The Nesodden municipality has just been informed by the Ministry that a kindergarten there, which has opened many weeks a year than the municipal and many fewer hours a week, will have the same subsidy as the municipal kindergartens, which then has a cost level that will cover much more hours a year. So when we discuss whether the private kindergartens, the private institutions, are an important complement and an important tool in public welfare policy, we must at least make sure that there are rules that make us compensate them properly. And I think the report from Telemarksforschung shows that. The report from Telemarksforschung shows interesting figures, and I expect the Council of State is now going to follow this up, so that we do not overcompensate those who provide other types of services. That's the way it has to be. The kindergarten message now in Stortinget should be tightened up in this area. In this way, we can ensure that even more kids get a kindergarten offer, and we need it when more than 10,000 kids are in line for kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1735	This has been a very interesting debate. The person who got me to speak was the representative Tetzschner, who co-ordinated the production of goods with welfare production. Since he also indicated that there are actually people on the left who are close to manufacturing activity, I guess I have a certain suspicion of who he was thinking about. I must honestly admit that article surprised me greatly. Had it, for example. had been so that a company that I know well had been paid by the state to produce salmon, we could actually have discussed along the way that he withdraws. Fortunately, of course, it's not like that. What this case is about, and so many people have repeated almost to the boring, is to make sure that taxpayers' money goes to what they should. So we're talking about the taxpayers' money to buy a service for welfare production. Those who want the greatest pleasure and benefit from it are just those companies – whether they are in the kindergarten sector, elderly care or where it is – that do a brilliant job every single day, and as we see someone want to be suspicious. That's not what it's about – it's well clarified. That it is not a wish of the government and the partners to get those figures out, surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1742	We have achieved something today, then, if we have widespread wonder at the red-greens – it was the review theme both in the posts of Serigstad Valen and Berg-Hansen that you are amazed. But the reality is that those who do business for economic purposes do it on the basis of the desire, and once everything is settled, to be left with a margin and a profit. Thus, welfare services are provided by a private welcome supplement. So it's up to the state to see if they can produce spaces and offers that are just as good. In Oslo, which has been promoted as an example here, it is that the results of private surveys are better, the user surveys show higher user satisfaction, lower sick leave, which does not indicate exactly any employee abuse — and this can be a parameter. However, it is up to the individual municipality and the state to enter into the specific contracts to be concluded on contractual terms, so we do not need to spend time in Stortinget, as a legislative assembly, to regulate this. To the representative Serigstad Valen I must say that now SV has to decide whether there is profit or tax evasion they are discussing. If you look at their Document 8, it's the terms "surplus" or "profit" they like to use as an expression. There's nothing there about tax evasion. Just to say that, we're opposed to tax evasion, but that's another front section. It is combated as other crime by the institutions and by the institutions designed for this kind of crime. I have to say again that there is no surplus that should be the subject of a problem description here. Profit is not, as SV sees it, a result of offences by definition or robbery of employees or quality dilution. You can look at the countries around you that have tried to eliminate profits from your economy, and it's the social systems and economic systems that we notice the repercussions of in a part of Europe that's based on a plan-based economy, and where you've solved the tax evasion problem by just having companies that don't produce profits. That's a rather drastic way of combating tax evasion, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1755	I have to admit that I read the hall a little bit different than the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen. I notice a great willingness to be open, to update legislation and to combat tax evasion, which I believe the Minister of Finance gave quite a thorough account of in his statement. Then I agree with the representative, Mr Tetzschner, when he points out that it is the profit motive that is first mentioned in the proposed document 8, namely that the level of profit from publicly funded welfare services should be assessed and that measures should be proposed to ensure that the public funds go for this purpose in their entirety, i.e. that profit cannot be drawn from, for example. welfare services. I am one of those who believe that in order to get more diversity and to get more service providers, it is absolutely legitimate to take advantage of a legitimate business that is wanted in Norway. And then there is little evidence that public health and care institutions are much better than private ones. Many public institutions have committed tens of thousands of violations of the Work Environment Act without receiving much attention for that reason or having consequences. It is also worth noting that companies that are wholly or partly leased by the state do not seem to manage the risks associated with corruption or unethical behaviour better than the private ones do. All major companies that are wholly or partly owned by the State are now involved in circumstances that are illegal, unethical and/or harmful to the reputation. So instead of going into ideological confusion, municipalities like the Municipality of Oslo might want to ask why the private companies have much lower sick leave and happy employees. The whole point of greater diversity of service providers is that they should be able to learn from each other. The fact that private companies or groups, as many have called them here, that provide well-being in other countries, also contribute in Norway, leads to experience in innovation, projects, quality and management in other countries, perhaps easier and better transferred to the operation here at home. That's why I'm not very afraid of groupization, as someone has called it. However, in Norway it may also seem that there are no results, but the number of crowns used over public budgets that count. For example, when the price difference for a student in general primary school is $151 000 between the school that spends the most money per student and the one that spends the least, it's not like the one who spends the most is three times better than the one who spends the least. It should be the result that counts, not the money spent. That being said, savings are not the main argument that ideal and private people should do part of the service gap, but quality. To the representative of Wickholm's designed problem that a large company operating a kindergarten should go bankrupt: the solution is that if it is a Right-Handled municipality, it is accessible to other companies that want to carry on their business, or then take over the municipality. This is not a problem for the Right, but perhaps a problem for those who can't do business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1770	The representative, Truls Wickholm, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1773	I'm glad we have so many representatives from the Right who can judge the knowledge and abilities of others. It's always nice in a debate. Finally, I would just like to say that there is a relatively large consensus that this is a problem when you read the comments and the two proposals. The Minister of Finance and Government wants to solve this by reviewing the Ministry of Finance internally. The rest of us want a NOU. But those are the same problems we want to look at. It's the same challenges that I'm experiencing that we're seeing. How we have now ended up with a debate that has gone so completely off track is hard to say. It's not the purely profit this is all about – I think everyone thinks it's okay – but it's the money that is collected in a different, non-regulated way, that you're out to see what you can do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1780	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1783	I said I was looking forward to this debate – I can't cheer myself. I have to comment on what's being said about Oslo. I don't even want to stand here and rake down to Oslo. There is a lot of good care for the elderly here. However, in 2014, sick leave was the lowest among ideal actors. Private and public actors are similar. In terms of user satisfaction, there were 9 ideal actors among the 15 who cut best. The private and the public were alike. User studies have a very low response rate, 13-14 pst, so we have to combine this with other knowledge. The knowledge we have gained through research into these vulnerable services — there is a difference between welfare services — such as care for the elderly, which is highly labour-intensive, is that private individuals run by large commercial groups are in a worse position over time. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1790	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1793	The representative Tetzschner really knows that there are more forms of profit than dividends. Some of them are legal, others are in the grey zone, and some are illegal. Many of these forms of profit are even listed in the proposal to be voted on today. Nor do we need much force to address the current debate on just profit movements, internal invoicing, thin capitalisation, etc., and what kind of threat it poses to both our long-term well-being and our long-term tax base. These things are actually related. When the representative Tetzschner instead of sticking to the case begins to frighten with the despotic regimes of the former East, the debate is known to have been won. If this is the case with any plan economy, as Tetzschner calls it, or with any regulation of the possibility of taking profits, as the rest of the room would call it – why has not the representative Tetzschner proposed to allow dividends and profits in the school sector? I welcome that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1801	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1815	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1822	In this proposition, the government proposes several changes to the day-to-day pay legislation: increased access to day-time study collections, up to 10 days per semester extended access to continuing training when the period of unemployment is extended with daily allowances during the establishment of own activities; Relatively, we are increasing by 43 million in the current year's budget. SEK and accrued in 2017 – full-year effect – SEK 72 million. kr, which is part of this proposition. Over the last year, very many people have become unemployed. Many of them are from South West. Many of them are from my county, Rogaland, from my region – the Haugesund region – and from the Stavanger region. Many of them have contacted us again who are politicians, their ombudsmen at Stortinget. Many of them were in the process of training, continuing training, some exams, some courses to obtain a professional letter, get additional training, get a degree approved by their employer – in dialogue with their family. They were doing it. And it's pretty much a tult and gone. People have been given the training that has been – and is going – gradually. Problems have now arisen, as they have become unemployed. Then Nav has given them the choice of either interrupting the education or retaining or receiving a daily allowance, but without being able to continue their education. For me, it is completely unreasonable and a bad code at Nav, but sometimes also some square handling by Nav. It clears up the government and government councilman Anniken Hauglie with this proposition. The right is concerned that the individual should be given every opportunity to obtain work. Some of today’s legislation counters this and contributes poorly to meeting the everyday lives of many families. What's going to be a challenge is that many of those who are now out of work are looking at what they're going to do. Of course, we know that daily allowances are not to be used to finance ordinary education. We've got the loan box for that. It uses everyone else who takes education. But just for those who have started a training course, the government solves it, with effect from 1 May, which the Storting joins today. And 1 May is already on Sunday, so it's pretty effective for the government to come up with such a quick procedure. From Monday on, we already have a new daily allowance code for those who are under education. It's a good news for those who have a challenge today. I am therefore very pleased that the government has received full support for all the proposals, so that there is today a unanimous committee behind the decision on amendments to the day-to-day pay legislation. Education today is not what education was just a few years ago, or in old days. In a number of studies, one must not study in the daytime; one can do it in the evening; one can do it in concentrated day collections rather than every day. It is the genius of the government’s proposal, which is now endorsed, that one can gather ten days per semester, and – the other change – that one is given the opportunity to complete initial education with daily allowances, but of course there should be some reduction in study progress, and that one should be an active job seeker while one is taking on the training already in progress. And so it is now that, especially in Rogaland and in the West, many of those who become unemployed are highly skilled workers, with a great, high and important education. Many of them can start their own business. Today there is increased bureaucracy for it. Among other things, they must: apply for a daily allowance for three months before they can start their own business. Today, it is also such that they can only combine daily allowances with their own business plan for nine months. The government proposes to expand, so that you can start your own business and keep a daily allowance for 12 months. This will result in more people having both the courage to start and work to start, and will contribute to work, activity and change, in line with other government policies. Otherwise, I can say that the Right votes against the solutions that will be distributed later today, and also the minority proposals that are in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1856	First, thank you to the rapporteur, who has contributed to the fact that we have managed to deal with this matter quickly in Stortinget, so that we can get the changes in place from 1 May. Unemployment is increasing sharply. 4.9 pst. 135,000 people - they're out of jobs. Many more are affected — adults who do not know if they are able to meet their financial obligations, families and young people who experience insecurity and distress for the future. So far we have had a government that is quite passive and puzzled in the situation. When the Minister of Labour believes that the situation offers the possibility of a puff for those without a job, it is almost disrespectful. The proposals presented here today are good for them, but they do not address the main challenge in the labour market. It doesn't hit the tens of thousands who have lost their jobs. We are making some own proposals that reinforce the proposals made by the government. We believe that efforts need to be directed more towards those who have not completed high school. It is easy to agree with the Minister of Labour when, after a visit to Rogaland, she said in the Questionnaire here in Stortinget that we should use the momentum now to give young people who have fallen out of high school the opportunity to complete. The background was at 40 p.m. of young people aged 16 to 29 who are unemployed in Rogaland, have not completed secondary school. The Labour Party agrees with the State Council that we need to use the momentum that is now, to get more people to complete high school. This is why we propose – together with the Socialist Left – that unemployed young people who are lacking in secondary education should be able to complete this, so that they can also complete their apprenticeship. So, as the Minister of Labour has called for, we want to give priority to those who have not completed education, because it is the safest way into working life. It is disappointing that the government does not follow up on its own actions, even when proposals are presented that are a concrete response to the challenge they think we are facing. Norwegian business is nice to change. It is precisely conversion staff who have made our businesses competitive, even though we have had a high wage level, a level of pay that is above that in the countries with which we compete. Employers and employees who renew their skills to equip themselves for the future, wise employers and trade union leaders who pressure the government to change the rules of leave are involved in maintaining the competence of a business that needs it when new tenders are to be won. Today, we are also promoting a proposal – together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – to change the rules on company internal training, so that more companies can increase the competence of the workforce in bad times. Then it is the proposal that those who become unemployed and will try to be entrepreneurs will have extended the time they can combine day money and foundation, with many months – from six months to twelve months. Twelve months without compulsory employment for the day-to-day allowance is a rough scheme. We propose changes to the system so that you can try out the market in the past. We think the result will be better if you get started early in the period. We are amazed that the Left – which is concerned with the entrepreneurs – does not join in and vote for it. But a rusty system must be followed up. We therefore put forward a proposal that the government should get an overview of how many actually create their own jobs when the year of daily living is over. We also believe that we need to know what happens to entrepreneurs, whether there will be jobs after a few years. Such knowledge should be of interest to those who are most concerned with entrepreneurs. Then we'll see if a rough system provides jobs. I address the proposals that the Labour Party has made, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1879	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1882	Unemployment has increased. It has increased more than most predictions, and it has increased places you couldn't expect. That's why unemployment has hit people who used to feel safe, and it creates extra big difficulties for us. The increase in unemployment has been shown to continue. It is therefore important to facilitate new jobs and new growth. That's what the Progress Party and the Right now are doing. We have launched a large package of measures that will primarily stimulate where the increase in unemployment is the largest, but we are also doing many other things that will help to create new growth, such as: making it easier for those taking training alongside the job. Unemployment affects people who plan for the future. Yes, it affects many families. In any case, unemployment is always heavy. Therefore, it is so important that public schemes do not make time more difficult for unemployed people than it already is. Today, we are dealing with the supplementary appropriations that follow sensible changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay, changes aimed at preventing public rules from making it more difficult to be available. People who have started an education while at work have proven that they can do both. Then they must also be able to be real jobseekers and study at the same time. Yes, I repeat: if you have the capacity to work and study at the same time, society must also have the confidence that the same people have the capacity to be both job seekers and students. This is common sense. But – here comes the reason for my earlier clarification – we agree that the general rule is that no daily allowance is given to people under education. Day payments shall provide a temporary guarantee of income for real job seekers, not finance education. We are talking here about those who are already in education when they become unemployed. We want them to be able to continue their education. It is not good if you both lose your job and lose the chance to complete your education. We want people to take additional training, and now we're facilitating that they can do it in difficult times as well. We see that some parties in the opposition are trying to use this case for a political game. You're accusing the government parties of not helping enough. With respect to reporting, I believe it is to underestimate how much these schemes will mean for job seekers. With regard to the proposal of the Workers’ Party and the SV to allow young people to receive daily allowances while in higher education, it is a proposal that will seriously undermine the principle of being a genuine job seeker to receive daily benefits. The government has put forward many good and effective measures for young unemployed people. We have also put forward many good and accurate measures for young people to help them in higher education, but we will not be able to destroy them by giving them daily allowances while they are in education. We find it difficult to believe – in fact, I find it very difficult to believe – that the Workers' Party and the SV may have thought particularly well about when they have promoted this proposal. Finally, my own county, East Agder, is hit hard. Yes, this applies to the whole of the South West. That is why I am pleased with the package of measures that will also benefit the unemployed in South Africa. We are voting against these loose proposals that have come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1901	The case concerns the amendment of the regulations relating to the law on social security § 4-6, «Days during education, training, establishment of own activities etc.» The regulation states: «Regulation on day-to-day pay under unemployment». The Centre Party supports the proposals in the Proposition to extend day-time access to study collections to up to 10 days per semester, to extend access to continuing education when unemployed, and to extend the period of day-care during the establishment of its own activities. The case has received a lot of attention, but the changes will only help a very small group of those who become unemployed. The Ministry has estimated it to be 200 more day-to-day money recipients in 2017, 100 more entrepreneurs in 2017. The full-year effect for 2017 is estimated to be 72 million in total. kr, as previously stated, one of the changes is put into action on 1 May and the other, in the case of entrepreneurs, on 1 July 2016. Suffering from a very limited group, we in the Central Party believe that the proposals should be supported. Furthermore, it is important to maintain a clear distinction between being under education and being unemployed. The requirement that the maximum number of unemployed can take three months of day-to-day training during the unemployment period and the half-progress requirement contributes to the maintenance of this limit. It is important to have a practical administrative system. Nevertheless, the Centre Party believes that there is discrimination in today's rules as to what kind of course you can take without having to pay the daily allowance. In the regulation on unemployment benefit § 4.3(b), the second paragraph reads as follows: «In this context, each component is considered as part of a longer training cycle. Although the individual beneficiary only wants to take, for example: preparatory tests, special subjects, semester subjects or other subject-matter which are part of a course of training are considered to be part of a longer course of training and cannot be regarded as independent entities.’;» This is what we believe the government should go into. Within the current limits, for example, a maximum of three months' course, half-progression, etc., we believe that qualitative discrimination should be lifted for the point-setting course contained in the second paragraph of § 4.3(b) of the current daily allowance regulation. Otherwise there's been a lot of attention, as mentioned, about this. What's our big dilemma is that we have a lack of popular governance to ensure full employment in Norway, and it's maritime-bound the free movement of labour that lies here as the basis and must be like a barrier to the Council of State, which has the task of ensuring full employment. I'm not going to go into it any further – we have many opportunities to address that. I would just like to say that the Central Party will support proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV. It is an unnecessary proposal after our assessment, and it is not least from the response of the Council of State, a response that she gave to the Workers' Party's Group on 5 April, where the bottom of page 2 is described what the possibilities are. So this is an unnecessary proposal in our opinion, but in order to avoid misunderstandings, we will vote in favour of it, because it is in our opinion in line with the understanding of the Council of States, which we agree with on that point. Finally, I would also like to say that proposal No. Four, from the Labour Party, we will vote against. There's a reference to how many businesses are established. It's really not that interesting – it could be sleeping businesses, it could be living businesses. The point is how many employees, and therefore we will not be able to gain substantial knowledge through proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 5, from the Labour Party, we will vote for it. The number of annual jobs depends on the number of jobs. It's essential. As regards the number of enterprises, this should also be the case with limited liability companies, i.e. limited liability companies, as opposed to unlimited liability companies, i.e. maritime operators. Finally, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The proposal is unexplained, but it is not wrong. It is in line with the comments of the Centre Party that I have referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1930	It is both gratifying and positive that today we are making changes to the legislation on day-to-day pay, so that education or training can be opened up and increased. It's a very special situation we're in, with the large number of unemployed people, and it requires new solutions and reinforced efforts – and it requires increased efforts at more levels. Unemployment is the waste of the most important resource that we as a society have, namely human beings, the human resource, and it is a huge burden on the individual. It is easy to lose heart and feel useless when an applicant is applying for a job after work, without success. It is therefore essential that we be able to create more jobs, but also that we be able to make the most of the individual able to get a job and participate in the labour market. One of the greatest divisions in our society today is between those who have completed and have taken secondary education, and those who have not. There is a difference between being able to stand with both legs of the work force or having a very loose relationship with the work force and being in a vulnerable position. Therefore, SV believes that it is important to alleviate the requirements to those who have not completed secondary education. Making people secure basic skills is giving people the opportunity to become self-contained. Being able to take a letter and become attractive to work or study skills for another race is giving people other opportunities for the future. In order to invest in a society, it must be invested in competence, in youth, in the future and in people. It's the most important resource that we have in common. That's why I want to address SV's loose proposals, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess measures to enable the unemployed to have access to more relevant studies and skills-building without being paid the day-to-day allowance.’ We're taking that up today, because we see a very special situation happening. When we are informed by one of the trade unions that organize highly educated people, Tekna, that they have members who go unemployed on day-to-day pay on the second year in a row, it says something about the situation in the labour market today. That group is completely incapable of taking a brain drain while combining it with daily money. These are people who like to need short courses that make them a little more attractive and current in new industries – perhaps it's about project management, about economics, about construction – to show that you have the relevant knowledge and competence to go from one industry to another. Almost all courses offered by this group are part of a degree. That is why they do not today have the opportunity to change their skills while receiving daily allowances. There is no one here who thinks that you should have full courses of education that lead to a degree while you go on a daily allowance. No one wants people who go on a daily allowance to sit side by side with students who have a student loan, while others receive a daily allowance. That's not what it's about; it's about having the opportunity to take short courses to get a brain drain that makes the individual more attractive on the labour market. I hope that there is an opportunity for more people to support the proposal, which is simply about an opportunity for more people to get work. There's a lot of talk about the green shift, about the conversion. There is also a need for the industrial competence, but also for current employees, who can help do that job and carry out the change that so many people are talking about. I think that more people will be able to do it if you take the relevant course to fit into new industries. Finally, I would like to say that SV votes for the Workers' Party's loose proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1954	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1957	Part of the country is in a difficult time, and it is serious for those who lose their jobs, for those companies and for the communities that are now affected. The government's job number one is to help create more jobs. That is why we also presented an expansive state budget and a powerful package of measures that provides work and activity across the country, and we also see that employment growth is taking place in Norway and that jobs are being created. The increase in unemployment in the last year is primarily due to a decrease in labour demand due to a sharp decline in oil investment. At the same time, there is growth in other industries. A weaker Norwegian krone makes it easier for competitive businesses to compete with foreign operations. It strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian travel by making it cheaper both for foreign tourists to come to Norway and more affordable for Norwegians to leave in their own country. In addition, growth in key market countries such as Sweden increases export opportunities. There is also demand for labour in parts of the public sector. Those who have become or become unemployed as a result of lower oil activity should therefore have a broad perspective when applying for a new job. Many also need to find a new job elsewhere than where they live today. Analyses from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare suggest that there is good geographical and industrial mobility among engineers and it contributes positively to the transition that the Norwegian economy is now undergoing. Some of the unemployed have good education, but others need continuing training, and some of them have started their education while they were still at work. The legislation on day-to-day pay shall ensure the income of persons who have lost their gainful employment for a period during which they are seeking employment. At the same time, the scheme is designed to motivate active job search, including: through activity requirements, mobility requirements and penalties. This makes the day-to-day arrangements an important labour market policy instrument to contribute to work. The unemployed in education are less accessible to the labour market and spend less time looking for a new job than other unemployed. Therefore, the general rule is that persons undergoing education or training are not entitled to a daily allowance. The principle that you must be a true jobseeker is established. The government believes it is important to stick to this as a principle. Day payments shall not finance regular education. At the same time, today's situation requires flexibility. In order to succeed in a necessary transition, jobseekers must have better opportunities to qualify for job vacancies in other sectors. The government is committed to giving the greatest possible chance of success in the world of work. Multiple doors shall be opened and unnecessary obstacles removed. This is why we are now proposing changes that will make it easier to combine day-to-day pay with education and to improve the possibilities of setting up our own business with day-to-day pay. In order to facilitate more flexibility, we propose that up to 10 days of day-to-day education or study collections should be allowed without the daily allowance falling away. At the same time, we propose that persons who have started the education before they became unemployed should be granted a further derogation from today's requirement that education cannot take place during the day and from the condition of following instruction. In addition, we propose that access to the daily allowance during the establishment of their own business be extended from today's nine months to twelve months, and this is because many of those who now lose their jobs in oil-related businesses have an education and experience that suggests that they have good opportunities to set up successful businesses on their own. I welcome the Committee's support for the proposals. It has been suggested that the changes relating to day money and education can take effect from 1 May, and I know that this is a decision that will delight many of those who now want to re-train and re-train themselves to new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1976	One of the proposals we are considering today is that you can take up to 10 days per semester during the day, combined with evening and weekend lessons. I understand that then you can take degrees, you can do whatever you want within that scheme. I have registered on the Ministry's website that you have had meetings with the universities, which are now adapting their course plans to the rules that are now being proposed and adopted here today. But as the Council of State said, it's those who have left out completing high school, which is the big challenge. Then my question is, has the Council of State done the same for those who have not completed high school? As far as I know, there are very few secondary schools that have arrangements that you can follow both during the day and evening hours and through weekends.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1981	First of all, I would like to say that I share the representative's commitment to the youngest, and in particular those who have not completed high school. I can confirm that we are planning the same kind of initiative towards the group that we now had with Tekna, NITO and the university and higher education community about the engineers. The joy of the meeting we had with the engineers was that the educational institutions are fully adapting to the new market and the opportunities to offer courses within the new legislation. I also feel confident that it will be possible for the younger ones. It is, of course, the responsibility of the school owner, the responsibility of the county, to ensure that they receive the training they need with the right of training, but we also want to take a similar meeting to discuss the possibilities of this group to complete secondary education within the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1988	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to encourage the Council of State to really take that initiative, because I don't think it's like the county councils are now ready to offer evening and weekend education combined with a tidal arrangement in the daytime. It's important that we really 'pinpoint' those who now really need it. That is why I encourage the Council of State to contact its colleague in the Ministry of Knowledge to initiate that type of action quite quickly. But I would like to ask the Council of State: When we now propose that those who can start as entrepreneurs do it earlier and do not have to wait six months out in the period to try out their own business, can the Council of State give a reason why she thinks you have to wait six months before you can start business when you have daily living while you're in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e1995	First of all, I just want to say, yes, the Minister of Knowledge and I are absolutely on that ball and want to have a meeting about it. But I would like to emphasise again that the county councils have a responsibility to provide young people with secondary education. Now we also close the gap between youth and adult rights to make it easier for those who need to complete higher education – give them the opportunity to do so. Now, when we change the day money code, there are several things that have been important to us. One is just to make sure that it is easier to combine initial education with education and training after being out of work, but also to start your own business while you go on a day-to-day basis. We've also made a change there. In the past, there has been a requirement to be a jobseeker for three months before you could start your own business. So let's get rid of that. I can also say that we are prepared to do several cleanups in the legislation. We've started a clearing job now. Now there are three concrete changes we have investigated and will implement and finance, and then it will be more later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2004	The Council of State said in its statement that flexibility is required for more unemployed people to complete or take training in order to get to work. That's what SV agrees with. We also support the fact that there should be a time limit on the possibility of education, and that all of them are also clear that, as the beneficiary of the daily allowance, there should be a time limit for taking up work. However, I wonder whether the Swedish Government sees that SV's proposals can make it possible for long-term high-level unemployed people to return to work more quickly in the event of a lack of skills, that there may be a dangerous way forward for the groups concerned, and that for some there is an unreasonable distinction between the types of education or training that can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2009	Recently, the Minister of Knowledge and I signed a meeting, which I mentioned to the previous questioner, with NITO and Tekna, together with the University of Oslo and Akershus, NTNU and the University of Agder, to discuss the situation especially for the highly educated – the engineers – who now notice the lack of work on the body. There were several things that were very positive with that meeting. One was that NTNU and especially the University of Oslo and Akershus were able to confirm that they currently have a number of courses and educational opportunities for this group, within today's legislation. The second thing that was very positive was that the same educational institutions were very interested in engaging in dialogue with NITO and Tekna to be able to adapt their offer further to this group, within existing legislation. In several counties, attempts are also made to monitor the competence of engineers to see what is needed to allow them to move from oil and gas to new industries. There's now a lot of positive happening, and the situation is going to be much better after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2016	It is very gratifying and important that the university and higher education sectors take on the social mission of training people for tasks that need to be done in our society, and that they are able to adapt them to groups that need special adaptations. But I still wonder if you want to have the opportunity to take a course and education — while you receive a daily allowance — even in those cases where the courses can be counted as part of a degree. Because as I see it, what you're against today is that the legislation is too rigid for those who might need a brain drain – because there's a stopper there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2021	What we're saying with these changes is that you have to be available for the labour market. This means that if you are offered a job, you should also be able to say yes to that job. The choice of education you make should not prevent it. We also say, and this is what the law has been all along, that you should not be able to take regular education or an ordinary course of education. Yes, we believe it is important to help those who now need to qualify for new jobs, but we do not want this to be part of the ordinary study funding, an alternatively funded loan fund. But I believe that we are now making significant simplifications in the legislation, which will make it much easier, even too highly educated, to take a course. I also notice the great enthusiasm of educational institutions to adapt now to the situation we are in. They also engage in dialogue with the organisations representing the educational groups that are now marking the availability of the body, in order to be part of the work that this is in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2030	We all agree, as we said before, that there is a difference between being able to take a brain drain or a lift while you receive a day's allowance and being able to take regular education. It has to be, there has to be a separator, and it has also been drawn up a time limit that makes it clear. Nevertheless, we receive feedback that if e.g. an engineer who has been employed in the oil shall try to move to construction, a shorter course may be required, but these courses may be counted as part of a degree, which means that he is not currently given the opportunity to take the necessary turn of competence while receiving the daily allowance. Does the Council of State solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2035	Today, the requirement, as I said in my previous answer, is that the courses you take should not be part of a longer course of education, and the changes we come with do not change that. In that case, it would require a further amendment of the law. However, it is fully possible to take courses that can provide skills to change jobs. Taking part of a higher education course or a longer course of education does not open this legislation, and we do not propose it here either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2040	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2046	I took the word for almost giving an explanation of vote, but the Council of State's last answer made me somewhat uncertain. For us in the Workers' Party, it is an important principle to have a distinction between what is a loan fund financed, and what is funded over a day's money. As we have understood the proposal that the Council of State has now presented, the amendment relating to point (a) of the regulation, it will be possible to take a course where a combined day, evening and weekend education, and then there is no limit to whether you take degrees or not. You have to have less than 50 pst. progress, but you can, for example: take training as an engineer, which then gives credits for study. And under point (a) it's a job, i.e. that if you get paid work, you have to start working. But the scheme that has now been put forward will allow you to combine work to finish your education. And then it's letter (c): There's no obligation to work, and for three months you can do short courses without having to take assigned work when offered. We think that's quite different. We believe it is right that those who now need to fill in higher education can do so, but we also believe and hope that many of them will have the opportunity to get a job. And then it is good that it is organized so that you can continue to take that education in the evening or on weekends, even if one then comes back to work. That's why we've chosen, after a balance, rather to give priority to the younger ones, those who have begun to go on a daily allowance, because they're out of formal competence. We know that it is the most difficult ones to get back to work, and that is why we prioritise it when we propose some changes to the proposal submitted by the Council of State. And if the Council of State thinks I'm wrong, I think it's good if the Council of State corrects it from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2057	On behalf of the state council, I can say that Rigmor Aasrud is right; as long as it's in combination with work and a reduced progression, you can get it. When I took the floor, it was really because there has been a rush of enquiries in this matter, both before the government put the matter forward – and which was really the basis for the government to come up with this matter – and not least along the way, and it creates some expectations. In the last few months, there have been very many who have received a refusal that today’s decision in Stortinget would have approved daily allowances in combination with education. I ask the Council of State, in its dialogue with Nav in the future, to also be involved in conveying that all those who have been denied a daily allowance in combination with education in the last few weeks and months can now re-submit an application and have the application reviewed. And one more thing: I've been sitting on copies of many letters from Nav to many of these that have been rejected. They have, of course, complained, and some of the most eye-catching in the reply letter from Nav on the complaint – it is almost impossible to believe – is that they state that it can take until, hold fast, 30 weeks before that complaint can be dealt with! In practice, the exam is completed for the largest number of them. So I also know that the reality is that many of the complaints are processed well within 30 weeks. But it also has something to do with the language of the administration: whoever gets a discount on the daily allowance, which is in practice the basis of the life of that family in the next few months, can't wait more than half a year to know if they get it or not. So I ask the Council of State, in dialogue with Nav, to ensure that that procedure is in fact proportionate to the pace of the matter and these individuals need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2070	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2086	The Minister of Foreign Affairs and I belong about the same generation. We grew up in the 1980s, during a cold war where things were black and white, red and blue. Either it was the capitalist world or the socialist world – walls were built in Europe, things seemed quite locked up, and the world image seemed quite similar. Now we live in a much more changeable world, even when it comes to foreign policy. We see wars that cross old dividing lines, which occur in countries that were stable in the past. We see that the wars are not as regional as they were before. A war situation in a country like Syria will affect the pressure also on Norwegian borders. We see big shifts between major powers. We see presidential candidates in democracies who put democracy's values in jeopardy. We see a major climate challenge, which is going to be a difficult challenge that the whole world has to solve simultaneously, together, a challenge we've never met before like so many nations together. We're seeing more and more migration. People are moving both for economic reasons, for reasons such as war and climate change, and for many other reasons. The poverty that occurs somewhere will also affect the migration affecting Norwegian borders. Global power is changing, and we see that neighboring countries, such as the United States, are changing. Russia, over time has changed character very much. And we see social media, which may affect foreign policy more than we think, because information about life that lives in different places spreads all over the planet. The public debate in the foreign field is marked by a lot of vision. I also think that the field is characterised by a little little public debate. There are not many and not very different voices that are heard in the debate. I think it's important to have research in different fields, it's important for our societal development, and also that it's part of the public vocabulary, in the public discussion. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is an important user and important source of research funding in this field. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what strategies are being used to support both the use of and the grant of research. The government proposed a large cut in this field during the previous budgetary procedure. The left brought your money back. But it's actually even more important to have a common strategy for research when it's hard times than when you have all the world's money. It is important to use research in the major road choices, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does, and also to have a research policy basis for the foreign policy debates we have in this Chamber. It is important to have a strategy to ensure that small environments are able to create major synergies in a country such as Norway. There are not as many people involved in research, there are not as many who are engaged in foreign policy in an international perspective in a small country such as Norway, and it is important that synergies and competences are well understood between these environments. But knowledge has to be demanded, it has to be valued, and we have to think in the long term about how we build a professional environment over time. We have a lot of good environments, especially within the free institutes like Chr. Michelsens Institutt, PRIO, FNI and NUPI. This is the sector responsibility of the Council of State, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the professional communities have a common approach towards a Norwegian research strategy. Norway is a major force internationally in many areas. Remember, we are the ninth largest in aid – the third largest in the UN. This means that we have a great responsibility to have a research-based and knowledge-based policy, when we are really a superpower in many areas of international policy. We spend a lot of money on assistance, but we spend less than 1 million on research. In addition, we see that we may have had a twist within the aid area of a more technocratic regime, also initiated by the debate in this room, where we focus very much on measuring results and evidence, but not so much on demanding more research on the real effects of our assistance. We live in a more integrated world, where decisions and individual sites affect Norwegian policies in many areas. However, we do not have a large research programme on how trade programmes affect us, and how international cooperation does it – just as climate challenges put the whole international political system under great pressure, with great expectations, without actually researching how the mechanisms evolve. We also give money via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to research that takes place abroad. It is then important to have a strategy on how to achieve synergies between the research communities and Norwegian institutions. And we should have what is called a research-based diplomacy, where we build relationships with institutions that can complement the kind of actors we have in Norway. The left wanted to change the government because we, among other things, wanted to change the government. would have a huge boost in research. That's what we've done. The question is what has been promised in the area of responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the strategy, and is it possible to get this into place as part of the long-term research plan, which we believe has been so important to put in place? I believe that research on foreign policy, in the whole area of aid and on what is the foreign minister's responsibility, also needs a separate strategy and a dedicated focus in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2109	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, asks what research strategy the government has in the foreign field and what place Norwegian research environments have in it. These are questions that concern me. I agree with Skei Grande that we have built good research environments over time on foreign policy, both in the institute sector and at universities. They constitute an important foreign policy resource, which we must manage well. Research-based knowledge has always been an important basis for the design and implementation of Norwegian foreign and development policies. An example is our role as a marine, resource and energy nation. Research-based knowledge is the very hub of strategic and policy development in these vital areas of interest for Norway. Turbulent globalisation, on which the interpellant was involved, and marked geopolitical change challenge Norwegian interests and further strengthen the need for a well-updated knowledge base in foreign policy. This is why the dialogue with research environments in the home and abroad is central to the work of the Road Selection Communication, which will be presented to the Stortinget Spring 2017 session. It is one of the mouths of Norwegian foreign and security policy that foreign and security policy is firm, but with the changes we are experiencing today, I think it is more precise to say that the values behind our foreign and security policy are clearly firm, but we also need to make adjustments on our part, as the landscape of foreign and security policy changes. And it changes quite quickly. We see that what's happening outside the country's borders is shaping us in Norway more and more. Changes in Eritrea can be noticed on Svinesund a few weeks after they happen in Asmara. As regards dialogue with key research and university environments in Norway, it is also essential that we go beyond the capital. There's a lot of good expertise in Oslo, but it's also around in our different regional centers. Not later than Monday this week, I challenged the university community in Kristiansand, at an interesting roadmap meeting there. The week before, I discussed strategies to help vulnerable states, during a roadmap event in collaboration with the Washington DC Atlantic Council, and strategies for the northern regions of the Carnegie Foundation in Brussels, where there were also leading representatives from the important EU environment in Brussels. Here at home, the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, NUPI, now arranges a series of expert seminars to contribute to the so-called "road choices" message. I would like to highlight briefly some of the main areas in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is dealing with knowledge and research. Firstly, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs use and interpret research-based knowledge from the global knowledge market in daily work to promote Norwegian interests. Secondly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself is funding a number of projects in cooperation with international knowledge and research communities to strengthen the decision-making base in priority policy areas, such as: peace and reconciliation, vulnerable countries and global energy and environmental issues. Thirdly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cooperates closely with Norwegian research communities in foreign policy and contributes funds to both long-term research through the Research Council and more widely used research, investigations and consultancy. Fourthly, an important area of development policy has long been to support higher education and research institutions in developing countries, as part of their efforts to address their own development and become independent of international aid. The interpellant was involved in this in the debate we had here in Stortinget – I think it was during the spontaneous Question Time yesterday that this came up – where I confirmed that in the strategy we have put forward for higher education and research in developing countries, I have now asked the Department to see if it is possible to clarify the woman dimension of that strategy. So it follows up, what the representative Skei Grande brought up earlier this week. The knowledge we gain through university and higher education initiatives in these areas helps to strengthen the quality of foreign policy and increase our space for action. But it is important that the Storting is also familiar with the challenges and challenges we face in ongoing policy development: Firstly, the completely unlimited acquisition of knowledge is an infinite resource, but also makes it difficult to read, digest, interpret and apply research-based knowledge, including what we have ordered ourselves. Secondly, competition in the knowledge market is important and the rules on tenders shall ensure open competition, quality and independence. At the same time, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the research community face challenges in terms of the rapid changes in the situation around us. We must also be willing to take on new impulses continuously, and we must not be more concerned with the map than with the terrain. Thirdly, a large proportion of the funds in this area come from the aid budget. At a time of precarious need, not least in vulnerable countries, it is necessary to calibrate this discreetly. The government's policy on these issues is aimed at exploiting the wide scope of research cooperation, while actively addressing challenges and dilemmas. The following are the themes and initiatives we are currently working on: Firstly, the work on knowledge and research is well distributed across a number of sections of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and both Norad and many outpatients are actively cooperating with external knowledge environments. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently set up a separate Director of Research to coordinate and contribute to the best possible synergy in the Ministry’s work on knowledge and research. Secondly, the Ministry is now working on a comprehensive strategy for research in the field of foreign and development policy. We aim to have the strategy completed during 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. Thirdly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working closely with the Norwegian Research Council and is channelling considerable sums into long-term research each year through the Research Council. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also following the work on the long-term research plan and is working towards a greater inclusion of foreign and security policy issues in centrally funded research strategies. Fourthly, we work closely with Norwegian research communities on how to continue and strengthen the more ongoing interaction between the different institutions and the EEAS. We are currently working on a framework agreement for contributions to key development policy research and investigation themes that will be put on the market and where we hope for an active response from relevant professional communities. Fifthly, we are in the process of implementing schemes where support for foreign research environments and think tankers is conditional on documented willingness to cooperate with Norwegian institutions where these have relevant competences. Sixth, we have set up several meeting places where Norwegian and international knowledge environments can play an active role in the upcoming roadmap. Similar platforms for dialogue have been established with civil society and research actors in connection with other messages and policy processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2158	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I would particularly like to thank you for two things: that there will be a strategy – probably in the course of the year – in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that it is a director who is responsible for this field. So now I thought I could follow up with a little more specific questions. This post was, as I said, proposed to be cut by the government, but was completed by Stortinget. Then it might be interesting to hear with the Minister for Foreign Affairs what leadership he has provided for the funds allocated this year, and what kind of thinking lies behind the use of that pot in the state budget. Secondly, it is said that the Research Council dreams of having its own programme in the field of foreign policy. I do not expect the Council of State to say yes or no to this question here today, but he can say something about what he thinks about having some more programmes organized within the Research Council throughout the field of foreign policy. I hope that many of the aspects that we brought here will be taken into account when working on a strategy, because it is important to have a long-term perspective when building a professional environment in Norway, because we often have fragile and small environments, and then it is important to work with international environments as well as to work long-term on how to build a high-quality professional environment, including in the field of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2169	I am pleased that the interpellant also underlined the importance of the development of a research strategy, which I concluded that we are trying to finish in 2016 or 2017. The most important thing is that there is good ownership of this strategy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the embassies, in NORAD, and that there is a good dialogue with all the important environments in Norway, on which the interpellant was involved, but I would also like to say beyond the borders of the country. It is essential for us in Norway that we also try different thesis and strategies with important professional environments outside our own country. It also allows our environments in Norway to work more with other international environments. But, as I stated, we would also encourage international environments that want to do important tasks on behalf of Norway on the research side, to cooperate more with professional environments in Norway that are of high international quality. With regard to the allocation of budgets to different fields, the interpellant has been very concerned about – I want to give tribute to the representative Skei Grande for having addressed this recently – the importance of a free and independent research. As far as the resources allocated to the Research Council are concerned, they are of a different nature than the more widely used research funds, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD directly dispose of and from which foreign stations may use. I think it was positive that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were given the opportunity to continue important research projects through the budget that was adopted for the current year, and many of the resources went on to continue programmes that had already begun or were planned. Looking ahead, the research and development funds need to go to areas where you professionally believe that there is a gap in knowledge, and this is the input that comes up into the system. Among other things, it is a great promise for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to develop a strategy for vulnerable countries. How do you do that, so that vulnerable countries don't end up like countries collapsing? This is a very difficult area, where great knowledge, experience, weight and insight are required.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2178	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Norway needs a strong knowledge base on development issues. Research, empowerment and evaluation are important tools for improving knowledge and ensuring the quality and effectiveness of assistance. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports annual research in different areas with a location between 1.2 billion. kr and 1.3 br. kr – in other words, a significant bet. Knowledge is at the heart of the sustainable development of society and business. Knowledge and capacity development in the south, knowledge development on development-related issues in Norway and the Nordic countries, development cooperation and professional strengthening and quality assurance are key elements of Norwegian development policy. Focus on knowledge, exchange of experience and research is important to ensure that development policy becomes more knowledge-based, and that global competence increases and the internationalisation of the Norwegian research environment is strengthened. Programmes such as Oil for Development and Fish for Development work well and should be developed further as several countries want to draw experience from Norwegian experience and knowledge of natural resources. Tax for development is also a programme to contribute to better tax systems and increased tax revenues in countries that want to cooperate in this area. The construction of new research ships has been adopted, and this is very important with a view to obtaining information on marine resources, the environment, climate and contributing to eco-based fisheries management on the African coast. Research cooperation with important knowledge nations is important. The government has developed a strategy for higher education and research cooperation with Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa and Japan – the so-called Panorama Strategy. These countries account for an increasing share of the world’s knowledge production and are important co-operation countries for Norway. The government has set aside 32 million. kr for the follow-up to the Panorama Strategy. There are good questions from the interpellant and good answers from the Department and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this matter. That's probably some of the reason why a little bit of interest is coming from the hall. I was also in doubt if I should take the floor, but one of the things I wanted to mention was that in the light of today's security policy situation, it is very positive that the government has spent more money on research into Russian politics, as well as innovation and competitiveness in the north. Through the NORRUSS program, it's set at 20 million. kr for this purpose until 2018. The goal of the Northern Region policy is to develop North Norway into one of Norway’s most creative and sustainable regions. To succeed in this, we need research and new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2191	It has happened before in my political life that I have experienced that when one is discussing research at Stortinget, only the Left and Right are taking the floor. I think it's a little searchy. And I don't think the representative Halleraker is right when he says it's due to an excellent interplay from me and a good response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think it's a little symptomatic, because the research in this field doesn't have enough status. It's not a big enough part of foreign policy, it's rarely used research in foreign policy debates, it's rare I've experienced putting the tone in a foreign policy debate here based on research. I find it very rare that researchers challenge Norwegian foreign policy, challenge the debate in the open room, and we very rarely experience that researchers are involved in setting the standard for which topics we are going to raise. It's a little scary for me, because I would like a public foreign policy debate that is research-based. I would like to have researchers who come up with different opinions and challenge our foreign policy stance. I would like to have researchers who challenge us on something that we in this room spend a great deal of the money on, that is, assistance, which is almost not being debated, given the amount of money we spend on it. I want researchers who challenge us, but who also evaluate the policy we pursue. So I think it's a little bit sad that it's just the left and the right that takes the word in such an important field. There is so much money in this room, and it is such an important area for a country like Norway. I hope that when the Foreign Minister has finished his strategy, we will have it debated in some way. He didn't exactly proclaim a big message about it, he proclaimed an internal strategy, but then it's going to be our challenge to be able to get a public debate about it on how we're going to manage to use and strengthen the research environments we have in Norway, to enhance the foreign policy vocabulary in a better way, to ensure that we have the quality of the assessments we're doing, and to ensure that there's research-based information behind the documents discussed in this room. For me, this was a little warning and a little alarm message about the lack of commitment, and I hope that the researchers out there who spend their lives on this, do not lose heart because there are only two parties who take the word, because the job they do is very important, and at least I am going to pursue this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2202	There is also an opportunity to explain a little more in the budget proposal for the autumn on research and investment, but it may be a little premature because much of the work is now being done in this research strategy. But to take a little bit of the overall numbers, we're going to use approx. One billion dollars for research through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. ==References== 90 pst. of this research is aid-related, 10 pst. goes to research on security policy, more geopolitical issues, which are not aid financed. Of the billion-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousandths go about. One hundred million. SEK – 80-100 million. kr – to the research institutes in Norway. But all of these numbers are subject to certain reservations, it's just to show a little bit of the sizes and areas that are being prioritised, which the interpellant was also inside and wanted a little more depth of. Of the billion-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousandths go about. 200-300 million. kr to bet on higher education and research in developing countries. There is a large programme for the follow-up of what we promise in education with higher education opportunities and research environments in developing countries. A large and heavy part is research on resource management in a broad sense. Agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy, the environment, climate in developing countries, how to optimise development assistance in order to maximise its development. Then there is support for research on health and education. There we know that Norway is heavily involved in health, with the development of new types of vaccines, also vaccines against pandemics, which I have warned. Then that's what I said about vulnerable states, support for peace and reconciliation and security and conflict prevention. I have a desire to raise it in the future. There we simply need more knowledge to be able to design a good policy. I would like to thank the interpellant again for the opportunity to explain this and involve the Storting in the development of that strategy. I think it's very good to get constructive input when we're going to design this strategy, in line with the different actors in the field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2215	So the debate is on case No. 8 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2221	Before the Stortinge goes to voting, the President will open the door for Mr Ketil Kjenseth to come forward with a proposal for a representative. The background is that there has been a misunderstanding about this. It shouldn't be a habit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2224	Thank you for that, President. It's never going to repeat itself. On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the investigation of forced use in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2231	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then the Storting will go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2241	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 5-8, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party the proposals No. 9 and 10, by Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 11-14, by Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 15, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the ‘golden rule’ also applies to research, innovation and quality development.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The vote boards showed that 93 votes were cast against and 10 votes in favour of the proposal from the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.32.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2276	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2281	That means there are 94 votes against and 9 votes in favour. The proposal has not been accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a requirement for the prevention of women of childbearing potential using LAR and that this be confirmed in the guidelines for pregnant women in medically assisted rehabilitation.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the reintroduction of a criterion that patients should have tried drug-free treatment before entering the LAR.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2304	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-14, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on drawing up an action plan to prevent overdose deaths in Norway and to submit the plan to the Stortinget. The action plan must provide a zero vision and address both short-term and longer-term measures to ensure a gradual reduction in overdose deaths in Norway.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess a system that helps people with severe drug dependence to avoid being charged with abstinence in the healthcare system.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to impose requirements on municipal emergency facilities and payment obligations for ready-to-print patients in the field of drug and mental health protection as early as 2017 but to postpone this until the municipalities have been given a chance to build up their offer in advance.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a concrete plan for the establishment of housing for people with drug and/or psychiatric disorders, with the aim that all those who need it should have an adapted housing offer within the escalation period is over.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2338	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to confirm an explicit requirement in the mission documents of the regional health care establishments that all providers of care should be able to choose a LAR-free treatment institution.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2357	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: The government is asking the government to ensure that pregnant women with drug dependence receive closer follow-up and to consider setting up their own drug withdrawal institutions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more than today, through the escalation plan, for the organisation of treatment provision for families with alcohol problems.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a national tariff for the supply of LARs from pharmacies in order to prevent drug leakage and to ensure better follow-up of LAR patients.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2386	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the largest cities to try out new models of interaction in order to obtain more holistic treatment between specialist health services, municipal health, work and housing.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2405	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to set up its own register for children born to mothers with known alcohol abuse/drug dependence’. The vote boards showed that 63 votes were cast against and 40 votes in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.35.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2419	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2424	You were supposed to vote against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2427	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2432	Then there are 64 votes against and 39 votes in favour. The proposal has not been accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party: Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national quality register for specialised treatment of drug dependence [[TSB]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size of the population supports the implementation of a stepping-up plan to strengthen the supply of people with drug problems in line with the main lines of Prop. 15 S [[2015-2016]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2497	The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2533	The Christian People's Party has announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2563	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by the representative, Ruth Grung, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that the rules on the enforcement of coercive measures against patients with drug dependence be regulated by law and not by regulation.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2743	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. There is then reason to believe that this should be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2753	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2763	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e2771	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case of a more comprehensive school health service and a separate specialisation as a health adviser – leading to its own authorisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8498	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8508	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8518	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8535	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 5, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a Norwegian public investigation into the petroleum tax system and the consequences of a new global climate target to limit global warming to a maximum of 1,5 °C on the Norwegian petroleum and petroleum tax policy. The investigation shall be aimed at a petroleum tax system which does not provide more favourable conditions for deduction than for other businesses and which ensures that Norwegian petroleum policy is in line with the obligations of the Paris Agreement, including in the area of taxation and taxation.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reversal of public support for research and development from petroleum research into renewable energy and green technology development in the context of the 2017 State budget.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8567	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to improve and further develop the renewable energy support regime and technology development in the context of the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the CO2 charge on a Norwegian base in the context of the 2017 State budget at least follows the CO2 charge for the mainland minus the quota price.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8597	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for phasing out tax advantages for the petroleum industry with effect from the 2017 State budget.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8633	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Mr Steffensen on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8644	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left shall vote against. So this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8656	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an appropriate case to the Storting where amendments and clarifications are proposed in the applicable legislation that ensure that public funds used to purchase services from private or non-profit institutions serving households are made to high-quality, cost-effective service production, and proposals for preventing undesirable tax adaptation in companies that are mainly financed by public funds.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. There's reason to believe that this is going to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8725	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the number of enterprises established by those with daily allowances during establishment at the end of the 12-month period.’ The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8744	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to set up a system that provides knowledge of the number of self-employed persons 3 years after the end of the period of day's pay during establishment and the number of annual jobs.» The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. So this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8763	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in the practice of the scheme so that the period of day-payment recipients establishing their own enterprise must implement a development phase is reduced to 3 months’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8780	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include young people with daily allowances who have not completed secondary education in the target group for the relaxation of the conditions for receiving daily allowances in combination with education.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8800	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the internal training regulations so that the scheme also applies to enterprises experiencing short-term economic failure.’ [[BIO]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8884	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-28.ana.ud759e8896	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anything require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
