ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e39	Two permit applications are available: by Mr Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on parental leave from 28 November to 18 December; from the representative of Trond Giske on parental leave from 29 November to 16 December These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, apply for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Eva Kristin Hansen's leave of absence due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve November 29-17. December For South Trondelag County: Ferhat Güven 29 November–16. December
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e89	The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e94	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Pál Farstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend the scope of the Swedish Law to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e99	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e104	On behalf of the Green Party, I would like to make a proposal on the knowledge-based and sustainable use of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e125	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e134	The changes in the climate due to CO 2 emissions are our generation's biggest challenge – a challenge that we have inherited after the last generations before us and that our generation has made worse. It's also a challenge we have to solve for the generations that come after us. And we have little time if we're going to be able to solve this within the two degree goal. I would like to give the Greens the Greens' Group the honour of thinking again about how we can change behaviour through taxation and reward, because there is no doubt that we need to change behaviour if we are to be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian People's Party agrees that CO 2 taxes need to be increased in order to make more people choose climate-friendly alternatives. At the same time, it is not enough just to stop, there must also be environmentally friendly alternatives. In many cases, this money costs, and public investment is necessary. The proposal is an alternative to traditional thinking around the CO 2 tax by introducing a so-called carbon tax for distribution. Such a model implies that fossil energy use is subject to a progressive overtime charge. The resources that come in will be distributed equally among the population. This could help motivate people to participate directly in climate-friendly behaviour. It will therefore be worthwhile to be environmentally friendly, while the opposite will cost. There is no tradition in the Norwegian tax system that the proceeds from a levy are paid directly back to taxpayers. This model thus represents a radical change. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be caution on the basis of the introduction of something that can contribute to the fragmentation of the tax system and promote the fight between particular interests. In the longer term, a consequence of this may be a weakening of the overall tax system and making it more difficult to finance important social goods. There is no doubt that it is important to rethink charges in order to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But it is also important to use positive instruments that provide alternatives for people. This is not free, and it often requires large investments. Therefore, this model can also make it more difficult to finance key investments needed to cope with the transition to a low-carbon society. The Christian People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal, although we believe it is an important discussion about CO 2 taxes and the reward for climate-friendly choices. I address the proposal on which the Christian People's Party is united with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e163	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e168	There's a special and serious time for the climate, because after eight years with the Obama administration, where the United States has been involved in taking on a leading international role, it can be said that it's exciting to see what role the new administration of the White House will play in international climate negotiations and on the international agenda. First of all, I would like to say a thousand thanks to the proposer, who is raising this interesting and exciting proposal on the carbon price for distribution. I want to boast of the case rapporteur, who has sewn this together in a good way – that is good work. In Norway, we have a carbon price of over 80 pst. of Norwegian emissions already today. This is a model that has been raised internationally, too, because most countries and most places do not have a price for carbon and on clean emissions. It is often referred to British Colombia, which, among other things, the Minister of Finance has been on a study trip with the head of the Left. I find it even more interesting, whose goal is to cut emissions – if we are not to fall in love with instruments – to look at countries like Sweden, Denmark and Germany, which have progressed by sector, step by step, and looked at how to cut emissions. The Labour Party does not believe in a flat KAF model in all sectors. To that is the sectors for special purposes. There are different agricultural needs; there are different measures in the transport sector; there are different measures to be taken in the construction sector – to tackle them in the non-quota sector. In addition, there is a marketable sector. What's interesting is how to collect taxes and what works most to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It has been demonstrated from estimates made in the context of the State budget that taxes alone may not be enough to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. You also need to have a number of injunctions and some prohibitions in the worst cases, including: with restriction to collective fields instead of pure car fields, to take an example from the transport sector. It is then often used as an example of what money can do to make it visible, that it is getting them right back to make climate-friendly choices – a reason when tax morals are low. But in Norway, fortunately, the tax morals are high, because we have been good at making visible what we spend the community's money on. There has been a high level of trust between the population and politicians – we have short distances and a country with small differences, which we need to preserve. That's why the Workers' Party is not going to support these proposals today, even though we have investigations of a CO 2 fund in our alternative budget using the NO x fund model for business. However, it is not normal for us to take such budgetary matters in a Document 8 proposal. It's also a cross-section of mind that we're going to begin to explore a fairly comprehensive KAF model, now that there are 13 years and 1 month left until we're going to achieve the 2030 targets. If you're going to figure out a model as comprehensive as much of this proposal as it is now, it's going to be enough of a pretext to postpone the cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. That is why, in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we have taken sector by sector and made it clear how we want to cut 10.8 million. tonnes to take our commitments. Another exciting idea, if you're going to allow yourself to think a little bit loud, is what, among other things, is Sweden is doing within the EU quota market, where EU allowances are purchased and deleted in order to contribute to a higher EU ETS allowance price – also in order to affect the EU ETS sector, because measures need to be taken in both these sectors and in all the specific ones. And here it's worth reminding once again that we don't have to fall in love with the instrument, but in the goal, which is to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e189	This autumn has been marked by discussions on climate and environmental taxes – in this way it is good that we are discussing the proposal for a new carbon tax here today. Let me make it quite clear at the outset that although I believe that this particular charge is not exactly accurate, there is a broad consensus on some important principles of climate policy, namely that the polluter-pays principle should underpin – that we should praise what creates emissions, and reward environmentally friendly behaviour. The problem with this proposal by the Green Party is that it does not meet these criteria well enough, while at the same time it represents a clear breach of established principles in the Norwegian tax system. The proposal for a carbon tax may seem quite simple, but it is not always the case that it is the easiest thing to do. Firstly, the idea that Norway is behind the use of charging policies in the service of the environment can be seen, especially when this proposal is being presented as something almost revolutionary new. The reality is that in Norway we have a very effective charging policy and were pioneers in the world with a tax on CO 2. In contrast to very many other countries with which we usually compare, Norway has taxes on, for example: fuel. We also have some significant taxes on other emissions from, for example, the petroleum industry and other industries. A major problem with the levy is that it can also have a significant territorial and social impact side, which means that it also affects many who do not have an alternative to the charge. It is not surprising that the Greens are promoting proposals for new taxes and are receiving support for this from among others. Socialist Left Party. It's gradually a clear pattern where we see that it's the government that is promoting proposals that play along with residents and businesses to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, and an MDG that will use whips and not carrots. I don't understand that the main challenge is that the Nordics don't want to make environmentally friendly choices. On the contrary, we see that we are far ahead in a number of areas, such as: the very high proportion of electric cars. Of course, price and money are important, but we also look at public transport that what matters most to the choice between car and track, not necessarily is the ticket price. Indeed, the quality of collective provision, i.e. route frequency and punctuality, is the most important thing for travellers. Technology development and the provision of environmentally friendly alternatives are therefore just as important as taxes. The main problem, however, may be that the proposal for such a carbon tax to be refunded to people is a violation of the principles of Norwegian tax policy. We have no tradition in Norway that the income from a levy is paid directly back to the taxpayers. I am pleased that a broad majority will be careful with the introduction of something that can contribute to the fragmentation of the tax system, and that can also promote the fight between special interests. There is a real risk that such a type of charge would weaken the conclusion of the tax system as a whole and thus end up making it more difficult to finance important investments necessary to cope with the transition to the low-carbon society. I think it is important to keep thinking about climate policy, but some proposals need to be matured and processed before any practical policy becomes – and that is a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e209	The issue we are dealing with today is one of several examples of how we are going to have a lot of debates in the future on what tools are sensible to use in terms of meeting the climate agreement. A large proportion of Norwegian industry and business are covered by the quota sector, while the transport sector may be the most important sector outside the quota sector and therefore also be subject to a high level of interest in the issue of emission reduction measures. In this way, this proposal inserts itself as part of several other proposals that we have discussed, and will probably also be discussing in the future. I think it is positive that one gets the kind of debates in Stortinget, sail if not everyone is going to have a majority, and the centre party is not going to support the proposal that has been presented today either. With regard to the transport sector, which is the major non-quota sector where emissions have to be cut, the Centre Party is of the opinion that it has to be wise as to what measures actually work. The setting goes through part of the views related to it. It is therefore gratifying that several of the batches want us today to say that it is appropriate to introduce a CO 2 fund where the revenues are used to reduce CO 2 emissions from heavy transport. I think that's a very important measure, a very positive measure that it's worth working on, and I hope that more parties will eventually end up over. Heavy transport represents a large share of emissions from the transport sector and providing them with the necessary drive, the necessary means of conversion, has been a very important measure in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Another question that arises is the question of increased blending of biofuels. I also think that Norway has a lot to pick up. Finland is far ahead of us. Today we have a 5-7 blend, but it's clear that coming up to 20 pst. the integration of biofuels had been a very important measure both for the transport sector and for the use of forests as an opportunity to actively contribute to climate policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Such a measure does not have a triple effect, but at least has a double effect. This is also, as other speakers have pointed out, a matter of collective action and other measures in the transport sector. What the centre party does not think is a very good idea is the general increases in fuel taxes, as proposed in the 2017 state budget. There are measures that have no climate impact, almost none – perhaps 0.01 pst – and that is also said by transport researchers. We then believe that the use of the fuel tax in this way is to weaken the legitimacy of the entire climate policy. We are also concerned about this proposal, which has been promoted by the Greens. This applies both to the fact that it has an impact on district policy, where those who do not have alternatives and have long distances could get out worse than residents in cities and central districts, and to the fact that there is no tradition in the Norwegian tax system to pay back a proceeds from a charge directly to taxpayers. The centre party does not see it as a sensible tool in climate policy in the future. I think this is a sensible debate. This is not a proposal that can achieve the support of the Central Party, but I believe that we are in the future – and perhaps we are also in the middle of it, for that matter – a discussion about which other proposals are sensible to introduce and use, and which we absolutely should not use, because they can, in essence, weaken the legitimacy of the future climate policy. It is very important, because climate policy should not only have legitimacy in some parties in the Stortinget. It should not just have the legitimacy of a few in the Norwegian population. It's not just supposed to be legitimized by those who have ten minutes to work. In order to succeed in climate policy, it must have the legitimacy of the vast majority of the Norwegian population. Therefore, the choice of the instrument is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e230	The left fully agrees that climate policy must have legitimacy, but legitimacy is given to it primarily by its implementation and its impact. A small comment on the last article: one cannot measure the impact of fuel tax changes year by year. Then it will never be big enough, and then the change will also be too big. This has to be seen in the context – over a longer period – of how we will achieve the goals we set, whether it is towards 2020, 2025 or 2030. There is then no doubt that fossil fuel taxes are also one part of the solution – not necessarily by setting them as high as possible, but by setting them at a level that makes the alternatives competitive, because it is competitiveness and driving the key options. So to the Green Party's proposal itself: what is very good about this proposal is that one looks at a whole set of environmental taxes, where the charges are not only used to increase public expenditure, but they are seen in the context that one should also have a cost side, and that the whole of the proposal should pay off. It should pay off for the population, while having an environmental impact. The left is critical because we believe that the proposal is too narrow and too little targeted. If one picks up charges and just distributes this flat to the individual citizen, we're not going to achieve the goals that we need. We are not strangers because one also distributes it to the individual. In the alternative state budget of the Left over the last few years, we have followed up with tax havens, among other things. the base deduction, so that it hits the individual resident. But in addition, as they do in British Columbia, we need to use the fees to make things easier, to get a new and greener business. So having relief also for business has to be an important part of the whole. We also need to use our revenues to bring about the changes, whether it's getting up a distribution network, targeting it towards Enova, targeting it against ideas for a CO 2 fund, or other support measures to bring about a change. At the local level, we have the highest degree of this whole thing around, for example. Oslopacket 3 and the toll-financed schemes we have in the big cities, where income is used both to keep prices down the local public network and to build up alternatives: bicycle paths, pedestrian facilities and a functioning public network. We will not support this proposal as it has been presented. However, we fully agree that one must look at the whole – which has been the Left's policy for many years – and that one must have tax increases, but that they must be returned, crown for crown, by relief for business and individuals, but in such a way that it contributes to both a green industry development and the green shift that we need. In order to achieve the green shift, a fee increase, support schemes need to be introduced towards the alternatives and to facilitate understanding and economic development as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e246	It is very special that a proposal to settle a carbon tax scheme for distribution, or climate reduction, does not get multiple numbers here today. At a time when the government and the support parties are completely open-minded about what to do to cut greenhouse gas emissions, more parties should be open to new innovations, not just simply reject them. But it's probably an example that the government doesn't have a plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and just wrote into the government statement that they would reinforce the climate agreement to get Left to support the climate negators from the Progress Party in government. The consequence is seen in the SSB’s presentation of greenhouse gas emissions for 2015. I quote: ‘After a long-term trend in greenhouse gas emissions reduction, emissions increased in 2015 by less than 0,8 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent compared to 2014.’ The left has good reason to feel cheated, but we in SV told them before the election that setting climate negators to control climate policy is something like putting fish juxtapositions to prevent overfishing. As long as the Left and Christian People's Party believes it is more important to have climate negators in government than to ensure reduced greenhouse gas emissions, the parties have played out their role as an environmental party in Norwegian politics. Missing Norwegian climate policy is in stark contrast to what was discussed at the Marrakech climate conference last week. There was the main debate on what country is doing to cut CO 2 emissions by 2020. In Norway, emissions are increasing instead. It says everything about the failure of the government's climate policy. SV supports the allocation of carbon tax, inspired by James Hansen's proposal in the United States, because we think all the new steps to get to the climate should be tried out. A climate tax used to target general distribution, targeted cash transfers such as child welfare or the introduction of long-term welfare schemes such as free dental care could increase job satisfaction by increasing CO 2 charges up to NOK 1500 tonnes so that emissions go towards zero and contribute to the smoothing of differences. Earmarking of environmental taxes leads to greater digestion. Rushtime charges for bicycle roads, roads and public transport have a wide disintegration. The pledge system, both in the sector of white goods and in bottles, is firmly established in the population, and SV believes that we should extend this idea to small boats to solve a major waste problem. The NO x fund, where business pays into a fund run by business to reduce as much NO x emissions as a NO x tax would, has also been a success. Therefore, it is good that the SV proposal to establish CO 2 funds for transport industries based on the principle of the NO x fund is becoming increasingly widespread. SV submit the proposal in 2015, then NHO and LO came on track and supported the proposal. Nevertheless, the proposal only received the support of the Green Party when the matter was discussed in spring. Now the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have joined, and since the setting was ready, the Labour Party has also announced that they are in favour. In other words, only the Left and the Climate Denies in the government are standing in the way of the proposal. It's a shame, because in Norway, we have a long tradition of entering into binding agreements on both CO2 and NOX emissions that the industry has held. But, as I've said before, the government and the supporting party let all chances of cutting CO 2 emissions go away, and then the conclusion is: Emission increases. Luckily, it's under one year to the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e296	The debate on this proposal is a shining illustration of why Norway, together with Bulgaria, is the only countries in Europe that have not cut their greenhouse gas emissions. The proposal explores the possibility of introducing a climate reward scheme in Norway. All games underline the background for that. Very dangerously, we hear about the great importance of climate change in Norway and the future, about what is happening in the United States, etc. And everyone knows that the current government negotiations are about measures that will not meet the climate agreement and will not cut emissions much. At the same time, the Labour Party has contributed to the provision of a budget that in practice does little, and where there is no mention of the oil business at all. For this reason, the majority are also fully entitled to point out that there is a strong need for innovation and to cut emissions quickly. After the majority has determined it, the majority states that the investigation of the possibility of using a innovative model will have nothing to do with it. So this is a model that has the very characteristics of cutting emissions fast and being innovative. But then the Workers' Party is setting up a series of measures that they would rather try out, which have been on the table for 10 or 20 years, and which they have so far not tried. The right has read the proposal so poorly that the representative Aarbergsbotten says it does not contain carrots. But it's a proposal to distribute all the money back to Norwegian citizens. The left has put forward a very similar proposal in the government negotiations, a proposal such as this. do not meet those who are not at work, who do not reward students who have travel expenses – they will not be involved. And the central party that wants to have emissions cut, but is always against everything that involves fees, is concerned that this may have regional problems and ignores – like all the other parties – that this is a proposal that will be part of a package that involves a number of measures, including: the actions put forward by the Green Party to strengthen access and the possibility of electric vehicle use in areas outside the cities with poor public transport. But we do not want this, and the explanation of the crown is that it conflicts with the traditions of Norwegian tax policy. That is quite right, that is why the proposal has been promoted. It is time to remember what are the most important traditions of Norwegian climate policy, and it is not to cut emissions and break promises to voters over and over again. It is perhaps time to act a little more liberally in relation to traditions than the great majority also seem to be willing in this matter – i.e. to look at a measure that can do what all parties promise, but few parties have so far been willing to implement. Then it is good that at least most parties outside the government, but oddly not the Left, support the proposal for a CO 2 fund in the transport industry. It is a special variant of carbon tax for distribution, so all the arguments against investigating the proposal for carbon tax for distribution fall to the fore when a proposal to give business a fee back so that they can solve climate problems on their own is agreed at the next moment. But leave it alone, here it is good that many are involved with business and sin that the government is not. I think it is nice that people praise the news of the proposal, and I hope that the parties at Stortinget will come back with a little more freedomful thoughts about measures that can actually cut emissions. It has not been done so far, this was a suggestion to do so. There's still a majority for that later. I'll then discuss the suggestions we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e312	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e318	Let me just start by saying – since several people have referred to proposals for CO 2 funds for business: the government has signalled in the 2017 national budget that we are positive to consider any proposal to this effect, but that at present we need to clarify both the economic and the administrative consequences of this, among other things. whether it is practicable at all to grant reimbursement to non-taxable carriers. It is certainly conceivable to get around this, but a lot of work is required before such a proposal can see the light of day. Now we are discussing a proposal from the representative of Storing Rasmus Hansson to investigate how a model for climate reward, a carbon tax for distribution, can best be introduced in Norway. As described in the proposal, there is a carbon tax for the allocation of two elements: the use of fossil energy is subject to a CO 2 tax and the proceeds from the CO 2 tax are to be returned to the inhabitants, so that each person receives the same amount. Today, the CO 2 tax sets a price for greenhouse gas emissions CO 2 in line with the polluter-pays principle. This gives households and enterprises incentives to reduce emissions of this greenhouse gas. Together with the quota system, the CO 2 tax is our main climate policy instrument. Norway introduced the CO 2 tax in 1991, as one of the first countries in the world. The tax has escalated over time and the State budget for 2017 proposes the overall level of the CO 2 tax at around SEK 430 per tonne of CO 2. The first part of the proposal for a representative, a CO 2 tax on fossil energy, is in reality a continuation of existing policies. It is also proposed that the CO 2 tax should be progressive over time. Let me remind you of Paragraph 75(a) of the Constitution, which requires the Storting to ‘apply taxes, duties, customs duties and other public burdens, which, however, do not apply beyond 31 December of the following year, unless they are expressly renewed by a new increase’. Therefore, the size cannot adopt a binding multiannual escalation of the CO 2 tax. If it is to be increased over time, it must be done by means of annual decisions. However, the size could indicate a direction towards the development of tax rates in the future, such as the Stortinget. made for the user charge on LPG, which shall be escalated to 2025. In the proposal, the proceeds from the CO 2 tax are subject to reimbursement to the inhabitants, so that each person receives the same amount. Since each individual’s choice would have a very low impact on the total proceeds of the CO 2 tax, it would not affect the amount of the transfers received. Thus, the return itself will not contribute to the reduction of CO 2 emissions, but will be a purely income transfer from the country to households, with unclear distribution effects. Financial policy already contains significant redistribution. The tax and social security system contributes to a significant redistribution from high-income persons to low-income persons. An important redistribution also takes place through the provision by the public of universal welfare schemes such as: free education and health. Nor is it clear whether a refund of the proceeds from the CO 2 tax to the inhabitants, so that each person receives the same amount, will contribute to more or less redistribution of income and consumption opportunities. The government is working to reduce the overall level of taxation. We do that because we want to make it more profitable to start new businesses and create new jobs, and we do that because when people get more freedom to decide about larger parts of their own income, it stimulates them to work more. Increased environmental taxes may be matched by lower taxes and taxes in other areas. It's a green tax exchange. It seems unnecessary to create a separate model for the reversal of tax revenue. The representative proposal also refers to the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. The agreements include: raise a collective emission target on the balance between man-made emissions and greenhouse gas emissions during the second half of this century. This balance point may be described as climate neutrality. Norway has a target of becoming climate-neutral before this. We are in dialogue with the EU on the joint achievement of the 2030 climate change target. A carbon charge for distribution is not a new instrument, but a combination of the existing CO 2 tax and instruments in the distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e399	Much of the proposal for the Green Party is about behavioural change in order to achieve adequate emission reductions. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about rethinking the fees in order to reduce precisely these emissions. The question of the Minister of Finance will then be: What new measures does the Council of State think are important and necessary to change behaviour as people with the aim of reducing climate change emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e404	I agree that it is important to think through what measures we can take to help reduce climate emissions over time. We know that two of the areas we can do most in Norway, and must do most in Norway, are in the non-quota sector, i.e. transport and agriculture. I think I should remind the representative of the consensus that the four cooperation parties have reached on the conversion of the one-off fee, as an example. It is therefore a very effective instrument that contributes to a positive change in behaviour. We now see a huge replacement of our car park, which means that over time we achieve a car park that is significantly less polluting than before. The share of low- and zero-emission cars is increasing in the battle rate. That is very good, and we have done so by changing the device on the one-off fee so that we stimulate that more people can afford to buy new and environmentally friendly cars faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e409	The Minister of Finance said in his speech that the government is in favour of assessing the establishment of a CO 2 fund for the transport industry. It's very nice. And then the Minister of Finance said – pretty straightforward: but we have to figure out how such a proposal will work. The question then is: when the government is in favour of a CO 2 fund and will consider such a proposal, why do the Right and the Advance Party vote on our proposal No. 1: «The government asks the government to assess the establishment of a private CO 2 fund [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e423	Why has it been necessary for the Green Party to promote that proposal, when the government has already announced in the 2017 national budget that we are taking a positive view of this? That there are challenges to that, I think everyone understands, and that we need to engage in dialogue with business actors to address constraints, devices and challenges related to this. There are many demanding aspects of setting up such a fund. Although the NO x fund model is used as a comparable operation, it is not. There are many demanding limitations in this. I believe it must be possible to find a good answer to that, but I have no illusions that there are answers we can find in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e431	Thanks for the answer. I am then told that the government does not think it is premature for the Storting to come forward with proposals on things that we think are sensible and therefore vote against them, even though they agree with the content of the proposal. It's also a way to practice politics. But I would like to hear about the Council of State, given the urgent need to reduce emissions in the transport of goods, have any ambitions about a time perspective to decide whether to go into a CO 2 fund for the transport of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e441	Let me first say that it is not premature of the Storting to make suggestions; it is the Storting in its full right to do. I just note that the government has mentioned this in the national budget and expressed a positive attitude towards looking at a CO 2 fund for business, but points out that there are many demanding aspects of this that need to be properly investigated first. I agree that we have a comprehensive job ahead of us to reduce emissions from the transport sector. For this reason, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government has, over the last three years, implemented a wide range of measures that will contribute to it, both through the conversion of the one-off fee, through the vigorous deployment of new technologies, on rail, on collective solutions through the reward scheme, by strengthening the use of tools for Enova and by defining objectives for increased blending of biofuels, to mention something. The list is a long list of measures in place that will result in future reductions in emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e451	I agree with the Council of State that this proposal is really not new; it is a narrow version of a broad green tax shift that at least the Left has fought for over many, many years. But the government has been in British Columbia with my party leader Trine Skei Grande and looked at how those who have a carbon tax combined with relief both for business and for private, which is also perceived as popular. You have at least been re-elected on this application. My question, on the basis of this trip as well, is whether the Council of State agrees that it is not the charging increases that are crucial, but it is the sum of increases and reliefs that are crucial for whether this should be right for the individual as well. Does the Council agree that it is the sum that counts, and that you should not look blindly at the increase in fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e458	It's absolutely right that Trine Skei Grande and I have been on a short trip to British Columbia. There they have introduced a CO 2 tax — at a significantly lower level than in Norway — which has been followed up by various reductions in taxes and taxes. It's really not new in itself, because we're already doing that in Norway. We are increasing some climate taxes. In the government's draft budget for 2017, we have proposed to increase the climate tax by 1.6 billion. NOK, while we propose to ease other taxes and taxes. But the debate that took place in British Columbia was not unambiguous. There were shared opinions about how successful this had been. They had their lawyers, but they also had their counterpowers, to say it like that. But what I agree with the representative of Elvesuen is that it is not a good answer to meet the work on greenhouse gas emissions with just tightening taxes, it is also important to reduce both taxes and taxes, because whips and carrots are often linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e468	It may not happen that BC Liberals have introduced this, and it is being attacked both from the conservative side and from the left in British Columbia policy. Nor is it essential for us to have as high charges as possible, but it is essential that a person has such high charges that the alternatives are the ones that pay. In Norway today, it is very special in terms of diesel and biodiesel — we have done a lot for biodiesel with tax relief, but there is something missing to get profitability in. So does the Council of State agree that we need to look for the right level, so that the profitability of the alternatives – which is the objective – actually comes up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e474	The four cooperating parties have already agreed to set higher targets for the biofuel placing on the market. It acknowledges the need to facilitate a better market for the production of biofuels over time. That's really the biggest problem right now. We can have expectations and make demands as much as we want, but it doesn't in itself give us more biofuels on the market. Investments must first be made in new production facilities, but I fully agree that biofuels are one of the answers to the emission challenges we have. I don't think it's right to increase taxes on ordinary fuel so fast and so powerful to make biofuels profitable overnight. There is a significant price difference and at today's price biofuels are unprofitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e479	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e486	It was the real representative of Knag Fylkesnes who made me speak, with his powerful attack on the Left for emissions increases. Yes, it is regrettable that there were emissions increases in 2015, but you have to read the report from the SSB. The reason is the increase in activity in the oil and gas sector, with decisions taken under the red-green government — where there was a significant increase and investment in oil and gas to bring up activity in this sector from 2005 and all the way up to the government shift. However, what is serious in the same report is that there is still an increase in the transport sector of 0,8 pst. We have to be able to push it down. But there is no doubt that in the session we are now in, much has been done in the transport sector. With regard to Norway’s objective of selling only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, no other country has anything to do with the same objectives. When we look at the objectives — or decisions — in Norway that hydrogen cars should be exempted until 50 000 cars are sold or until 2025, no one else has such objectives. Now that we have corrected the misconception of the previous government in imposing a tax on biofuels – we have removed it – we are once again getting up a production of biofuels. We have doubled the sales requirement from 3.5 pst. to 7 pst. from 1 January. And we demand high-quality biofuels, which means that this leads to an increase in production also in Norway. Since this spring, we've had a target of 11 pst. by 2020. The left believes that this should be up to 20 pst. In Finland it already is, and in Sweden it is 15 pst. We have a significant investment on the railways, a significant investment towards the big cities. I myself was the City Council for the Environment and Transport in Oslo under the previous government, and I had no choice but to be allowed to implement measures because we had a government that would not play a role – whether it was about demanding the taxi industry, making environmental zones against the big cities, or getting support for the collective action, which was zero until the last year of the previous elections, at least in the largest public transport region. In the end, also to the Greens/Greens/EFA: we must use tax reductions in many ways, including on prices. The left has now reduced the prices of monthly tickets on the railway. I record that in one place where the Greens have considerable power over public transport, they set them up, namely in Oslo and Akershus. That's the left strong against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e499	The tax increase on public transport in the Oslo region is a compromise that everyone knows the Left has voted for, and we only get to repeat it as long as the Left tries to make it a different one. The aim of the climate reward proposal is to take two things seriously. Firstly, the point of environmental taxes is to change behaviour. It's getting away from environmentally harmful activities. It's getting rid of pollution. Environmental taxes are important in most cases. The second point that we take seriously is the polluter-pays principle. The polluter shall pay for the costs incurred by society and the whole of its pollution. This is a principle to which all parties on the Stortinget strongly subscribe, as far as I know. The problem with the use of environmental taxes in Norway today is that they do not comply with those principles. Environmental taxes in Norway today are to a large extent so low that they have little effect. They reduce pollution to a small extent, the CO 2 tax is a good example, while providing general income to non-designated state funds. We in the Green Party are not earmarked for ourselves, but the result is that the state's operation, put a little at the head, is dependent on someone polluting enough to get enough income to run hospitals and kindergartens. When we are in that situation, it should make sense to get emissions from the transport sector down rapidly at the very most critical points – and due to the accession of the Stortingen to both the climate agreement and the agreement with the EU. They've increased by 30 pst. Since 1990, and they have increased by 10 pst. since 2000. They will reach 800,000 tonnes each year from 2017 onwards if the Stortinget and the Government intend to deliver on their promises. Then we need a system that transfers money from those who pollute a lot, to those who pollute a little, that gives a personal incentive that people can recognize, that hits everyone – not just taxpayers, that seem fast and cease to exist when the job is done, and that does not leave a revenue hole in the treasury, for example. in the form of tax reliefs that other sources of payment have to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e529	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e544	In Europe, in Norway’s neighbourhoods, in our countries, criminal networks are being built by traffickers who run some of the most cynical and unscrupulous crime the world has seen. So far, they are directly responsible for 4 500 refugees who have drowned in the Mediterranean. It's a new, tragic record compared to last year, when it was 3,500 drowning. According to TV 2's documents on human trafficking, "Norway for sale", according to NRK reports and reports in the Evening Post, according to Kripos and according to Frontex, we see that the human traffickers, for example. sells ‘swimming vests’ that are not swim vests – you drown if you trust them – that they accommodate too many people on board these boats, that they take from them the phones, that they don’t fill enough petrol to get beyond a little distance from the coast, that they use driverless, dormant, wretched ships, and that they give a discount to travel in distress. The NRK said on 18 November that they even threatened refugees on the boats to give away boat engines, life jackets and mobile phones and leave them entirely to themselves. But it's not just on the high seas that the refugees are being exposed to great danger. Also through e.g. desert areas in Africa are subject to abuse, assault and kidnapping. They are housed together in trucks or in cramped premises, and despite the fact that they have paid in expensive judges – a price that has been drawn out is 10,000 dollars for transport all the way from Somalia to Norway – they may be threatened by life to pay more. This can lead to revenge on the family in the home country if it does not. The NRK told us on 4 July that people who have not paid are being killed, and even that their organs are being used for donor trafficking. So this is a terrible crime, which we have to take very seriously. What do we know about these human trafficker networks? Europol has an analysis centre with 42 analysts coordinating knowledge and intelligence. Frontex, the Schengen border organisation, knows a lot, and our Kripos are cooperating with them. If I'm going to draw up some main points, Europol has 30 000 suspects in the smuggling networks working in and against Europe. One network can extend from countries such as Afghanistan and Somalia, have cells on a country by country until Norway and have freelancers who are drivers, deliver ID papers, etc. en route. According to Europol, they carry approx. 90 pst. of the refugees coming to Europe. Also NOAS confirms that there are mainly cynical profitors, human traffickers, who are behind the transport of refugees. What we have seen is that the most dangerous and powerful mafia groups in Italy, in the Balkans, among others. Albanian groups, in Azerbaijan and others have become involved in human smuggling because this is very profitable. They have taken over large parts of the business. In addition, terrorist organisations that are willing to do everything in their power to obtain funding, such as the IS in Libya and Al-Shabab in Somalia, have gone into the trafficking of human beings and are doing so in the worst way. It is estimated that revenue may be from 40 billion. NOK 60 billion. kr per year, which can be measured by the income from drug activities. Trafficking in human beings is also combined with drug and trafficking, leading to the proliferation of crime in these countries because of the fact that bribery is of course carried out by officials, corruption is created, and that part of society is also affected. These human trafficker networks are specialised in the production of fake travel documents, ID papers, fake passports, for which the refugees have to pay in expensive judgments. When one who was anonymous and called himself Salim, was interviewed by the NRK on 17 December 2015, he told how the traffickers use one passport many times: A person travels with a passport from Greece to Norway, for example, the passport is sent back to Greece, is equipped with new images and is reused again and again. The German authorities, who have gone through carefully the Syrian passports used on arrival in Germany, have shown that approx. 30 pst. of those who have used these passports come from countries other than Syria. This extensive business of falsifying ID papers/pass leads to heavy loads on our receiver. I don't know the numbers from last year, but previous years have up to 90 pst. of those who have come to Norway, did not have ID papers. They've gotten rid of them because they haven't been real, or returned them to human traffickers who use them again. There may also be other reasons for getting rid of the paperwork, but at least it leads to a very long treatment period and a heavy burden on our entire asylum institution. So human trafficking leads to many kinds of problems, and it's attractive to run with because the risk of discovery is so small. In Norway, no human trafficking networks have yet been detected and convicted. There have been isolated cases, but they have, for example: is a person who has run some relatives across the border and received 40–90 days for it. The accumulation of refugees we now see in Italy and Greece, because it has been tightened up by country in terms of border control and other instruments, can also lead to new business opportunities for the human smuggling networks because it is more difficult to arrive at by other means. The refugees then become even more dependent on paying for them, using them. So what can we do? State Attorney Jan Fredrik Glent has, among others: to the evening post on 18 December 2015, said this is not a priority of the Norwegian police. There were 92 cases last year in Norway with cases of human trafficking, according to Kripos. 87 of them were hospitalized. Those who are convicted are less of the kind that I mentioned, that is, no one dealing with human smuggling networks. There is one country that prioritises this higher, and that is Austria. They have set up their own Joint Operational Office against trafficking in human beings, and until now they have raised eight cases against large human smuggling networks. They ask whether the model we practice in Norway works well enough. It assumes that Kripos collects knowledge and analysis and discovers a lot, but sends it out to the police districts, which are then to investigate and organize. The capacity, knowledge and ability to deal with this in the police districts, even though we now have fewer districts, can be too small, and it is very dependent on international cooperation, which the police districts may have less to deal with. In order to do this job better, when refugees, for family reasons in their home country, for example, don't dare talk to the police about the human smuggling networks, we are very dependent on methods. It is gratifying that the Storting in spring in the treatment of Prop. 68 L for 2015–2016 adopted new methods for the police. This results, among other things, in: the ability to operate with communication control to human traffic controller networks, for which it was opened there, data reading of chat programmes, etc. and also to conduct a secret search in cases of gross human smuggling. It helps, but in terms of methods, I think you also have to look at currency transactions. I have been informed by the police that there are very many transactions of NOK 4999 via the offices that transfer money abroad, because the limit of registration is NOK 5000. You might want to look at another way of dealing with it so that your intention can be better achieved. I am also concerned about whether the sentence of up to 18 months is not being used and practised with the police, because it will cause some deterrence in using and buying fake IDs. There is a lot more that can be said here, among other things. that this is very dependent on international cooperation. We must start at our end of the matter, but it is clear that Europol's efforts, in cooperation with Europol, that all countries are in an interaction with Europol, are crucial for us to move forward. I'm also concerned that we should prioritise this in this country, and start at our end of the networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e579	Let me first boast by the representative Bohemia of the commitment he shows not only in this area, but also in the case of serious profit-driven crime in general. I have previously answered interpellations on this issue in Stortinget, and I think it is good that he contributes to the strengthened focus within areas that we all are concerned about, and that affect people in a very negative way. Much of what I said in the interpellation debate on profit-motivated organised crime will also be valid in this interpellation, because it is an important part of the international crime scene. I would therefore like to start by saying a few words about the threat picture we are facing. Organised crime represents a serious threat to both private actors, the welfare state and global security. The new EU Internal Security Strategy, The European Agenda on Security for 2015–20, organises crime as one of three priority areas. Organized human trafficking is one of the strongest growing international criminal activities in the world. The profits from human smuggling through Libya alone contribute about 170 million. U.S. dollars. According to Europol, 90 pst. of the more than one million refugees and migrants who made their way to Europe in 2015, used smuggling services throughout or part of the journey. In most cases, this service was performed by criminal groups, and it is estimated that the profits of traffickers were between 40 billion. and 50 B.C.E. kr. Unfortunately, nationally, we've focused too little on this, perhaps because we've had too little knowledge of human smuggling networks. Therefore, Kripos started by producing a report in 2015, where it appeared that there was little evidence that there was a close link between the human smuggling networks in the Mediterranean region and Norway, but that there were indications that organisers in Norway were involved in human trafficking here. Kripos also informed that in some cases there are close relationships between traffickers and traffickers. I just want to remind you briefly of the challenges the jurisdiction creates. They create some restrictions on what can be punished by Norwegian authorities. A criminal offence must be committed on its own territory, on its own ships or in certain cases by Norwegian nationals abroad. In this area, criminal acts are very often carried out by networks operating outside Norwegian territory. That is why international cooperation is essential for us to succeed in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Some of the measures we have taken, therefore, I would like to comment separately. They include: based on the fact that, after the events of last autumn, with a large wave of migration to Norway, the focus on profit-driven human trafficking has also increased for our country. Organised profit-based human trafficking will also fall under the priority given to serious international organised crime by the National Attorney in his Roundtable of Goals and Priorities. I have been informed by Kripos that between 2013 and the fall of 2015 there are 144 people who have been targeted for human trafficking in Norway, and there are 26 who are convicted. Among these 144 people are the brothers from Norway, Sweden, Syria, Eritrea and Afghanistan. Of them with Norwegian or Swedish citizenship, more than 80 pst. born outside Europe. There are several factors that may influence the number of cases to be low. One of them is that very often the Norwegian part of the crime scene is in the end or in the recipient part of the smuggling network, and the frequency of reporting is very low. This is because many of those who come here use this as a kind of service and believe that they pay for a service. In asylum interviews, reports show that many consider them businessmen or consultants who help to provide opportunities to travel to Europe. It creates specific research-related challenges. For this reason, intelligence work to gain more knowledge in this area has been intensified, and the government appointed a separate analysis group on the migration and refugee situation. The police contributed to the work on a intelligence mission given to Kripos. The intelligence mission also made an important contribution to the government-designated analysis group and their analysis report on human trafficking in order to contribute to increasing national knowledge levels in this field. The structured analysis work has provided a lot of knowledge about the phenomenon of organised profit-based human trafficking. In this context, they have also identified several new networks that appear to be well-established – the networks are not new, but it is new that they have found them. These have been active for several years and have a significant capacity and capacity to contribute. The basic work that Kripos has done could also form the basis for major investigations into issues that Kripos can also go in and investigate. The purpose of the coordination body is to contribute to the strengthening of police action against serious crime. This room is well-informed about. In 2016, the Coordination Body has been asked in particular to pay attention to human smuggling issues. I would like to mention – as the interpellant did from this interpellant – that the government's initiative to expand the use of methods and the means of coercion in cases of gross human trafficking, so that we can both use communication control and data reading to detect this type of crime, is very important. There are demanding investigations, which I was in the meantime, and having the opportunity to use these tools will be crucial. We also know that there is good capacity in these criminal environments to create and produce very high-quality fake ID and travel documents. That is why we have been very concerned that we should strengthen ID management in Norway. We prioritise safer identity management and have proposed 81 million in the 2017 state budget. kr such as, inter alia: could help the police to obtain handheld devices that can easily and efficiently verify additional ID information. There is, as the interpellant said, much to say about these measures and the further work. But I want to use a little bit of the last time to talk about the international cooperation that we're totally dependent on. As an introduction to it, we have set up a joint expert group, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Justice and Police sectors are represented in order to achieve a comprehensive effort against criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings. Then it is important to keep with us that we contribute to Europol. We have good Norwegian police representation in Europol, and we contribute among others. in an expert group dedicated to the fight against trafficking in human beings. We also have the opportunity to go into concrete projects when they include human smuggling. In addition, we participate in Eurojust. It simplifies the coordination of judicial processes, investigations and criminal prosecutions in cross-border crime, involving both efforts to combat cross-border trafficking in human beings and trafficking. As the room is known, Norway contributes to the Frontex operations of Triton and Poseidon. This is also an important contribution to the fight against trafficking in human beings. I would like to point out that every week 44, I have received reports that the crews of Siem Pilot and Peter Henry von Koss have so far survived 171 people suspected of smuggling or contributing to human smuggling or other criminal offences. These have been handed over to Greek and Italian authorities, respectively. In addition, the Norwegian police at Siem Pilot have made Italian authorities aware of about 200 witnesses. The Advocate General informs us that this work will contribute to the arrest of several suspected human traffickers, so that Italian police have been able to investigate and set matters straight. In the media it has, among other things, a case in which the efforts of the Siem Pilot crews have contributed to three persons being sentenced to 20 years in prison for killing migrants. The international efforts of the Norwegian police therefore mean that human traffickers are prosecuted even if the prosecution is not carried out in Norwegian territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e608	The fight against this serious global challenge is important, but it is demanding. We don't have to push it under a chair. The criminal networks are very adaptable and flexible. To succeed in this fight, we need endurance and a broad approach both nationally and internationally. The government has initiated and supported actions both nationally and internationally in the fight against organised profit-based smuggling networks. We'll see the results of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e611	I think the post from the Council of State was informative and good, went into important parts of this work and also provided some new information. I think it was nice to hear that Kripos has revealed networks, as I also mentioned, and that it could also provide a basis for Kripos to launch his own investigations. We have to make sure that Kripos has the capacity and the resources to do it. I think that they too are concerned with signals from the political environment and political leadership that this is a matter to be given priority over resources, etc. I believe that what the Council of State says about contributions to an expert group in Europol – I know that Europol is working on 62 issues in cooperation with other countries now; I don't think any of them are in Norway, but they are important anyway – of course, this effort is central. But I want to hold on to the fact that we also have to do the job in our own country and grab hold of our end of the matter. For example, in April 2015, the Italian authorities sent research documents to Norway on a large organised human smuggling network that also operated in Norway, and according to the Evening Post on 18 December of the same year, no investigations had yet been carried out in relation to those documents from Italy. There may be many reasons for this, such as that it was not enough to address it, but there is no doubt that these networks are represented in Norway. In particular, Albanian networks, which operate in Sweden, and which also have a strong position in organised criminal environments in Norway, have been identified. In the NRK interview I mentioned, with him who had been within these organized smuggling networks, and was called Salim, he told directly that there are large, organized criminal networks working on human smuggling towards Norway, and that they can serve – now, after the contraction came, and it is so difficult to get into Europe – up to $30,000 on a transport from Greece to Norway, because you are so dependent on the human traffickers and so dependent on finding other ways in here. We must also be aware that we can then have more illegal stays, because some of these will come to Norway and not even apply for a stay, among others. Because they have fake ID papers. State attorney Jan Glent, as I mentioned, stated that Norwegian politicians must also give priority to this. I hope that the debate we can have today, both the posts of the Council of State and the posts of other representatives, will give a clear signal to the police and the authorities that this will be a priority task in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e626	Let me first remind you that Glent's statement preceded a lot of the work that is actually being done by Kripos, which has helped to give us new knowledge in this area. I fully agree that it is important that this should be given high priority, but perhaps particularly high in our international cooperation, because it is absolutely essential to address these challenges that we stand together with our European partners to prevent this smuggling of human beings. Norway is doing a good job there, which I was in the middle of my main post, among other things. through our participation in these two Frontex operations. At the same time, Schengen is working very hard – and we are strong in our voice in this regard – to strengthen the work against trafficking in human beings. It is one of the measures that one considers it necessary to have better control if one is to address the challenges facing Europe in the coming years. It will also be an important part of the further development of Frontex into the new Border and Coast Guard Agency to strengthen external border control in the Schengen area. There is a great deal of positive also in the contractual and conversational aspects of the development of Schengen cooperation, not least in relation to the work with Europol, Interpol and Eurojust, which is important in order to address these challenges. I would like to mention that the Riksadvokat – as I mentioned in relation to the Round of Priorities – has prioritised this kind of crime. I have now been informed by the Riksadvokat that, in the context of the work on a new Roundtable of objectives and priorities for 2017, they will consider paying further attention to profit-driven, organised human trafficking. So there's an attention in this area that is now stronger than what it's been before, also based on that we have more knowledge. But perhaps the most demanding side of this is that in many ways you have very much reluctant victims, because you have to distinguish between human trafficking and human trafficking. Human traffickers exploit people in a cynical way, but some of them believe, as I said, that this is a kind of service for which they are willing to pay. It makes it very difficult to investigate. In addition, we know that once one has started on such a journey, one can later experience both threats and pressures – the pressure to get more money, threats to the family at home, and not least the threat of sanctions if one is going to disclose information, whether it's about trafficking routes, smugglers or anything else. This means that there are demanding investigations. International cooperation, I think, is the most important thing, but I also agree with the inter-pellant that we should succeed in that, we must also succeed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e639	It is a very important interpellation that the representative of Bohemia addresses here today, and there have been good contributions from both the representative and the minister. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings is an increasing problem, and we see it particularly in relation to people on the run. In 2015 and 2016, it was provided with funds such as: were used to establish specialised human trafficking groups in police districts in the five largest cities. Furthermore, police reform is being rolled out of the country, and we are establishing new police districts. One of the main objectives of this reform is to create more police districts, providing increased police professional competence in one place. We have gone from 27 to 12 police districts, and this contributes to greater specialisation and not least to a wider professional environment in different areas of crime, including in the area of human trafficking. At the same time, we know that human trafficking affects various areas. It can be detected in the workplace, in the area of financial crime and not least in the area of prostitution. Today there is a major court case in Oslo, which supposedly covers all these areas. It is therefore important that not only are specialised groups working to detect trafficking in human beings but there is sufficient competence throughout the police to detect this important area. I would also like to pay special attention to the institution of asylum and the importance of maintaining a strict but fair asylum and immigration policy at the same time. Knowledge of strict legislation also helps to minimise the number of people exposed to human smuggling. Strict regulation will make it more difficult for traffickers to exploit people in flight. In many areas, as the Minister of Justice has just mentioned, the government's judicial policy encourages us to combat both trafficking in human beings and trafficking, because I feel that these two areas are closely linked. Then we have to do more than we do today, and we have to keep focusing on this important area. I expect the government will also be working on a plan to combat human trafficking and trafficking in human beings in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e658	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation and a good contribution, as well as the Council of State for the answer that both shows the work that is going on and that it is a priority field that is important to the government. I also want to tackle what others have been involved in, and maybe start and finish my post with a dilemma. The first is that there is a great difference in the experience of cynicism versus consulting, which the Council of State had in mind. Those who use human traffickers are often exploited very much, whether they are in large debt that they have to pay back, or they are subjected to forced labour, etc. On the other hand, the smugglers of the refugees can be perceived as one who helped them out of a war zone or over the Mediterranean, and that the refugees do not have ties with them afterwards, and you see them as a consultant. It distinguishes human trafficking a little from trafficking in human beings, but nevertheless it is closely linked, which the representative Ebbesen was also involved in. We in this room have been busy fighting human trafficking or slavery many times, for it is a bigger market for slavery than ever. The value of a human life is less than ever. One sees the cynicism that is, one sees that the number of people in transit across the Mediterranean has increased, and that the organized network that may have been involved in the smuggling of weapons or drugs — the large areas — has chosen to move away from this and across to human smuggling because the risk is smaller, both because the penalties have been lower than for drug smuggling and because the risk of losing money is so much smaller. A boat with drugs that sinks is a large amount of money lost. A boat with people sinking is fully paid. Brutal cynicism is what we must fight. For this reason, I fully agree with the Council of State that most of the trafficking in human beings applies internationally, although there are differences in Norway. The work done against organised crime internationally, I am very pleased that Norway is involved. I would also like to say about the work that Norway is doing, that we know that the previous action plan on trafficking in human beings also referred to trafficking in human beings. Now the Council of State has promised that the new action plan against trafficking in human beings is right around the corner, so when it comes, I hope that human trafficking is mentioned in that plan. But the most important thing, as I said, is what you do internationally. I would also like to mention the basic problems. What are the reasons why people try to escape and want to use traffickers? It's clear that one has conflicts, like in Syria where it's obvious that people are on the run because the situation is intolerable. But we also see that many people who use human traffickers, who come across to Europe, are not fleeing from war, but fleeing from a difficult situation – they are looking for a better place than what they have. The Justice Committee visited Roma and Frontex, and we heard stories about women who chose to flee Nigeria, who knew that they were going to be raped on the road, took contraception, and took refuge. They knew about the risk over the ocean, but they did it anyway, because the alternative they felt was worse. I think it's a talking picture of how demanding the situation they live in is, and how much they're willing to sacrifice. It also means long-term assistance — success in business development, success in creating jobs for all the young men in Africa who today experience futility, the creation of a market, so that they can sell more goods, and countries can become even more self-propelled. We know that there are many countries that are developing in the right direction, but it is too late, and there are many countries that are lagging behind. The basic problems, of course, are something you have to touch on when talking about human smuggling. If you can get rid of the need for them, of course you will do the most important job. Ebbesen was involved in the police reform, and there we have done a lot of important, I believe. The interpellant was also about the important changes that we made in allowing communication control and data reading, which are crucial in these kinds of cases, and which are cross-border where people do not necessarily – as the Council of State was about to – have victims who will indicate. It's extremely important that we have our own team working on human trafficking, that we can provide information that can once again be passed on internationally in order to condemn the traffickers. We are negotiating a new budget, and hopefully we can get even more funds to combat trafficking in human beings. I promised to touch a dilemma in the end. I have to say that in a non-profit world, the best thing would have been quota refugees, etc., but for some is the dilemma: are you going to die in Syria, or are you going to take refuge and use human traffickers? That's one aspect we need to include in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e677	I would like to thank the representatives of Ebbesen and Ropstad for their contributions. There are important things that were drawn out. To what Ebbessen had to say, it's important to think about that these human smuggling networks really form a lot of immigration. That is the way they operate, and the high price level they demand for transport, which in many ways governs the composition of our refugee flow – when Europol says that 90 pst. come via smuggler networks. I think it's striking that there's a lot of commitment to the Great Around Immigration Policy, Integration, etc., but in the case of those who really form a lot of the premises for our immigration situation – the human smuggling networks – there were now only two posts from other representatives in the Great Britain where this was commented on. I think you're doing a big bomb if you don't have any more parties and more people in general get involved in this, because this is the basis for what our immigration situation will look like in the years to come. I would also like to say to the representative, since we discussed the method and were concerned with what was done in connection with Prop. 68 L for 2015–2016: There is one point on which Ropstad was in the Dagsrevy yesterday, that it must be possible to oblige ICT companies to take care of IP addresses longer than today – today it is self-imposed three weeks, while Ropstad said six months. The case of imposing on them that they should be able to take care of the IP addresses in such a way that they can deliver them at legal request – if criminal matters arise and matters to be investigated – will also be important for the investigation of human smuggling networks, just as it is important for the investigation of child abuse, child pornography, etc. So I also hope that we can get back to Stortinget. There were a few points I mentioned, which the Council of State did not comment on. I understand that you don't have the opportunity to comment on everything, and that that's not all you immediately have in mind. But I think it's important, as far as violations of the Foreign Affairs Act are concerned, by not cooperating to clarify the ID: using the penal framework that was increased to 18 months in order not to cooperate on the ID, I would like the Council to pay attention to whether it is being used. It is important to discourage operating with a fake ID and not to cooperate with the police. It creates a lot of extra work. The same is true of what I mentioned about currency transactions. It's going to be very striking how many currency transactions are just under NOK 5000 in these environments that might be suspected of engaging in human smuggling. That's what we got today, but I thank you for the interest and for the efforts of, among other things. Councils of State on an important theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e692	Let me thank the interpellant again for putting an important area in focus. I think we agree that we should not judge the importance of a matter area based on the number of posts in an inter-pelling debate in the Storting, because there is no doubt that this is an important topic to debate further. We know that many of the trafficking routes used for human trafficking are also used for the smuggling of criminal goods, especially drugs, and we know that these environments go very much where the money is. Therefore, it is necessary to find the major international solutions to help prevent the attractiveness of trafficking in both drugs and — in this context — people. I think it is very good that the posts here at least point in the same direction, and that there is no great disagreement in the Storting about this. Then I would like to say a few words about – it was the representative of Ropstad and, to some extent, the representative of Ebbesen who talked about it – the moving transition between human trafficking and trafficking, because in some context it is a slipping transition. There are some areas where there is a very clear distinction, but there are also issues where it can start as a kind of human trafficking operation, while it can result in trafficking in human beings because, in the course of the process, debts arise that result in a subsequent commitment, and that will actually contribute to the fact that there is trafficking in human beings we are talking about. It's a very serious problem, and it creates many challenges along the way in that transformation – from what those who are smuggled believe is a transport mission, and then it ends up with a complete disaster, either that you crash along the way, or you end up in prostitution, in forced labour, etc. I would also like to point out what Ebbesen had to say about the near-police reform. Rupstad was in on it, too. There you need to focus more on human trafficking, and the competence that will come there, I think we will also benefit from in the matters that deal with trafficking in human beings. The issues aren't the same, but they're pretty related issues. To these two specific questions from the interpellant: How the police will follow up on a lack of cooperation, the police will have to decide on a case-by-case basis. There will be benefits and disadvantages in punishing. What the Storting has done is, of course, they have created the framework for using it as an instrument, but it is the prosecution authority that has to assess whether it is appropriate in the individual case. If the rule is not used, I'm a little surprised at that, but I can't say anything about the extent or equivalent now. But the framework conditions are at least present, so that they can be put into service. In the case of currency transactions, there's also something we have to look at. It also creates some specific challenges, but it's an important point to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e705	So the debate is on case No. Three o'clock. After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e720	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking how best to introduce a model of climate reward in Norway’. [[carbon charge for distribution]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The budget requires the Government to submit the evaluations of proposals 1 and 2 before balancing the budget for 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e751	It is voted on proposal No 1, by the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a private CO 2 fund according to the NO x fund model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e1519	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e1529	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-24.ana.ud271e1556	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
