ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Solvency Horne, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e48	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge: Under this government, unemployment has stuck. Last night, there were figures showing that the unemployment rate is still at a record high level — we have the highest number of unemployed in Norway in over 20 years. At the same time, almost no new jobs are created, and in the private sector, the number of jobs is falling. It is youth that is hit hardest. Nearly 80,000 people under the age of 30 are now out of study or work. The number of unemployed young people has increased by 30,000, the number of young people is increasing dramatically during this government, and more people experience meeting adult life without having to get a job. In this situation, the Labour Party believes that the most important thing we can do is to give young people qualifications, skills, education, so that they are ready for the jobs of the future when we get back to growth in Norway. But the government chooses the opposite. The growth in the number of places of study has hardly been as low as it has been during this government. One could have targeted the efforts against Stavanger, against Bergen, against Haugesund, against Stord, against Ålesund and against Kristiansand, where the vacancy is highest, and introduced young people into the studies and the courses of competence. Instead, in three years it has become 2,100 more study places according to the department’s own figures, and in the 2017 budget, the number of new study places proposed is zero – zero! In other words, not a single additional study place in a situation of high unemployment. The number of qualified applicants rejected for higher education has increased by 50 pst. since this government took over – 20,000 people. Why can't you put these people into getting education and skills so that they can get ready for the future labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e61	The fact that unemployment is increasing — or increasing, rather, because now there is evidence that it is stabilising — is largely due to the fall in oil prices. So that government has to be measured, it's not that you're sitting in the middle of an oil price drop, but how to deal with the increasing unemployment. Norway is still — there is no doubt about it — in a situation where too many unemployed people, where unemployment rates are too high, but also, it has to be said, perhaps on the way down. So that's what we do both at macro level and at micro level, that is, at large and in direct action. For example, it's important how to run the economy. Growth in the private sector is important. We need new profitable jobs in the private sector to replace lost jobs there. But we are also doing a lot on the knowledge side: the greatest research effort of the time, a renewed commitment to the profession, for example. increase in the apprenticeship grant, the training effort provided by the government, which addresses exactly what the representative Giske says about the need for workers to have the tools to change, and the work we have done together with the Ministry of Labour to see how people who end up in the Nav system can be better educated. Then there are the more targeted measures towards the South and the West, where the unemployment rate is highest — in most countries in Norway, the unemployment rate is falling — and that is, for example, the rate of unemployment. a system in which we say that part of those who lose their jobs in the North Sea can take extra education and go into school, where we need good real-time teachers. There we have set up new teaching places, targeted precisely at the regions that need it, and just so that those with real-time skills, but needing a little fill to get a new job, will get it. Many of them are young.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e70	Usually the government uses to answer something with the last eight years. Well, over the eight red-green years, 22,000 new places of study — a whole NTNU — were set up at a time when it was easy for young people to get work, with the last three years being 2,000 and for 2017 zero. My question is again: why not bet on education when it is the way for young people to get work? The Ministry of Knowledge itself says that only increased study propensity requires 2000–3000 new places each year in a normal situation. It's just as bad in terms of apprenticeships. When the government joined, it was said that now you would have a great professional lift. So the years that we've had most people who haven't been taught are 2015 and 2016. It's going the wrong way. And again, 15,000 young people leave school every year without a completed degree or study qualification. One of the reasons is that there are no apprenticeships. We have to have a boost for knowledge, education and professional letters. Why won't the government bet, two and a half years after the oil price fell?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e77	I'm trying to avoid, at least in the first answer, just talking about the previous eight years, but can say something about what we've done. Then there's a useful contrast to see what's been done before. We have presented changes in just professional subjects, where, after eight years of last time, a big message came to the fore. We're going to have a trade school education, maybe one of the most important parts of our education system, which is close to work, in practice, where the last period was put down a sample. Under this majority of Stortinget, the apprenticeship grant increases. The previous eight years it stood still. I fully agree with the representative, Giske, that we are not in this position. We have to do even more. But I would warn against that idea that there is a simple solution to youth unemployment by establishing study places. We have also set up new study places, but we must therefore replace private sector jobs with new profitable jobs in the private sector. After all, the young people who lose their jobs need a new job first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e84	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e89	In the government's own analysis, shown in the Report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, The Digital Agenda for Norway, reads that only one in four IT positions will be occupied by competent staff in 2030, unless further training is provided. This has been announced for a long time, not least by the industry itself, and therefore the IT industry has merged on a common demand for the State budget. As far as I know, this is the first time that NITO, Tekna, ICT Norway and Abelia have done it. They require, among other things: 1 000 new ICT places of study. Universities and colleges are clear, they have capacity, but the government will not provide any ICT places of study. They want to give us zero. Once again, Røe Isaksen does not choose to listen to professional advice, at least when they meet as well as they do, to the challenges Norway faces in terms of migration and digitisation. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e94	The premise for the question does not match reality. If you look at what the majority parties have provided in the 2016 budget, there are about 2 700 new places funded above the state budget with fresh funds, i.e. an increase of several places. Both when we have awarded scholarships, and when we have established new places of study together with the cooperation parties, we have prioritised real science, technology, ICT and teaching and health. It is not only because youth unemployment has to go down, but also because it is an important priority for future Norway, which the representative points to. But it's not that the only way to get other types of study places is for the Storting to decide. We also have universities and universities in Norway that want responsibility and that have to take responsibility. Now I see that when the labour market changes, their study portfolio also needs to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e101	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e106	When unemployment is higher than we would like, it would be natural to bet on more places of study in the budget. But even though unemployment has increased, we also know that there are some professional groups where we need more people in the future. Last week, the SSB presented a report on what competence Norway will need by 2035. Although that report came after the government had submitted its draft budget, the picture is well known. Projections show, among other things: Norway needs more education, more nurses and more protectionists. How does the Council of State think he will contribute to the training of enough people in Norway with this competence, based on a budget that does not include any new places of study?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e114	Firstly, I believe that the cooperation parties can be proud. But we can't be satisfied, because we're not done with what we've done, nor with regard to the time off. As I said, we have to do more. It does not only deal with action packages, raising professional subjects, providing vocational education — which is now coming — or new places of study. In addition to the new places of study which have entered the current budget of the year, almost 3000 new places of study are funded. The institutions also have a great responsibility. I think it shouldn't be that every time we need a change, or every time the labour market changes, we're going to be based on. We also have to demand that universities and colleges look at their portfolio and how they can adapt to the working life out there. It's a responsibility that comes with both the big money bag they get from the Treasury and the taxpayers, and the responsibility that they themselves want to have, and that we have given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e123	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e128	Where I'm from, we talk a lot about what we're going to live off after the oil. We basically agree that we're going to live off the oil for a long time, but at the same time we know that we have to see wider, we have to bet on other things. We're a little bit on the search or looking a little bit for what to be next where we can be world leaders, where we can lie in front, where we can be part of the world's evolution. There is quite a broad consensus that technology must be part of that answer. There we have a good starting point – Norway has a good starting point. At the same time, the representative of Aasen shows that if we do nothing, a large proportion of our IT positions will be available in the future. We know that ICT Norway wants 1 000 new places to study. We run a test system with coding as an electoral profession, while in Europe it is largely rolling into school. Isn't the Council of State concerned that we're a little backward when it comes to the technology initiative? That's what's the solution to the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e135	Evolution is going very, very fast. It's really strange that it had to do this government and this majority before, for example. received coding into the school. We have started with an experiment with an electoral profession, and our goal is at least to become an electoral profession in all Norwegian schools. It was time that it happened. I believe – as I have said before – that the cooperation parties can be pleased that we have prioritised several study places in the MNT disciplines, in the ICT disciplines and in the real subjects. It's important. So that's the big question: what are we going to live on after the oil? I have to admit that sometimes I think it sounds like – not necessarily from the representative Nybø – we're just going to live on something that's unknown. But we're still going to live by boats and fish, by marine and maritime industries, we're going to live by Norwegian industry, we're going to live by force, we're still going to live by forest. And the knowledge society is not about having more academics for academics. It's about getting even more knowledge into all the industries we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e144	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e149	I can understand that the government does not increase the number of study places all the time available today. The government's claim for 4 in mathematics to enter the teacher's school contributed to the fact that there are about 500 places of study available, which should have been used by students who want to become teachers – despite the fact that there were motivated students who had good grades. At the same time, we know that there are over 9 000 non-qualified people working in school today, i.e. people who lack pedagogic skills, or who have only advanced education. The evening post reported last week about 49 000 students receiving special education. 50 pst. training is provided by personnel who do not have special education training to teach. Can the Council explain how the government can have such good advice that they feel it is better to fill the classrooms with unskilled rather than to include students in teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e156	I believe that teachers should not only have teacher training, but a professional immersion in the subject they teach. Almost 20 pst. of those who teach mathematics at primary school, they have zero depression in what they teach. It's the gold standard in Norwegian school. It was with this majority that there were concrete instruments to do something with all the unskilled at school, by introducing together with the Left and Christian People's Party a scholarship that you can apply for to qualify, to recruit more people to school. So we might have to do even more. We're doing something about this. It is quite right that there are some empty places to study in teacher training this year. It's been years. If we compare with e.g. 2008, we train 1,300 more teachers today, with the government's higher recording requirements. It is clear that if we had lowered the recording requirement or had no recording requirements, we could get more in, but it is hardly the way to go to recruit more people for Norway's most important profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e163	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e168	It's a strange social development government adds up to. It is not the first year that you come with proposals for zero increases in the number of places to study. One's been doing it for years. It is the Left and Christian People's Party that have come with the great additions. We are now in a situation where there have never been so many qualified applicants who have not received a place to study, and at the same time there is a screaming need for teachers, nurses, engineers – a lot of professionals. It'll be screaming for them all over the business world. On the IT candidate page, the number of higher education candidates has fallen significantly, by 40 pst. the later years, while in our neighboring country it has been almost a doubling in the hill. One goes in the opposite direction than one could imagine was evolution. The number of applicants is increasing, the number of graduates is decreasing. How does the Minister of Knowledge suggest that this should end?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e173	I believe again that it is a signed description of reality. In 2016, we're funding 2,700 places above the state budget, which is extra places that are coming. Of them, priority is ICT, MNT, so technological science, you can say in a little bit of a simple way, and we're just doing that because these are important subjects. In addition, through the Long-term Plan for Research and Higher Education, we have given particular priority to strengthening the professional environment through several scholarships and doctoral positions to get a commitment to technology. It is also this government that has gone into the rush to have a real science strategy, so you don't start this work because someone starts higher education, but you can get real science from kindergarten and through the entire school run. If we're going to recruit all of these technologists, we also need people who go out of primary school who are happy in real science and who master real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e178	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e184	In recent times, we have once again received a shocking reminder of how cruel people can be to their own and to the children of others. The attack case, which is based in Bergen, has made a strong impression on us all, and even the police are struggling to find words to describe how brutal and terrible an assault on children and young people has been. But I'm actually not surprised at the matter. It's just the top of an iceberg. Studies show that in a classroom of 30 students there are at least two students who are subjected to serious violence or abuse. They all, most of them live with daily terror, without anyone knowing about the abuses. They don't dare report, and no one sees them. The only hope they have is that some of us outside intervene. Last year, the Christian People's Party was given the power to promote an obliging escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children. A unanimous decision was taken on: «The plan must ensure a multidisciplinary scope of action, good coordination, and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources.» And it should be ‘according to the model of the mental health escalation plan’. The roadmap for mental health lasted from 1998 to 2008, and when it was presented, it was announced that it meant that one would spend 24 billion dollars. for mental health during the period of the plan. The Solberg Government's plan for the escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children contains 176 million. NOK, without any further obligations, without any greater measure of escalation. That is, to put it mildly, disappointing. But I also want to say that it's a mockery of the thousands of kids who are subjected to violence and assault, and who live with it every day. My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: Why has one elected to go away from the unanimous decision taken by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e202	With the things that have been in the media in the last few days, and when we can read almost every day and week about children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse, I'd say it's so heartrending and so cruel that we almost don't think it's true. I'm, like the representative Ropstad, worried that there are many kids and young people out there today that we adults don't know about, in order to ask the important questions so that more children tell the secrets they're carrying, and get the help they need. That is why it is important to combat violence and abuse against children, that we have efforts in many areas, not only in the area of children and families, and therefore I am glad that the Stortinge resolved unanimously that the government should present an escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children. For the first time, an obliging escalation plan has been handed over, focusing on both prevention, knowledge, the work the police are going to do on investigation, and not least on relief measures for children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse. I am also pleased that, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have given priority to prevention in recent years. We have prioritised the fight against violence and assault with tens of millions of dollars. In addition to the large investment that we have already received in the civil parties, the plan of escalation now under consideration in Stortinget is 176 million. kr in fresh funds on the table for next year's budget. I would like to stress that it does not stop with that. We are very clear that this plan of escalation must be followed up with more funds in the future budgets as well. Now this is for treatment in Stortinget, and I look forward to Storting's treatment of the escalating plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e217	I thank you for your answer. Once upon a time, a stepping-up plan should contain escalation and commitments, and as I read of the quotation from the decision taken by Stortinget, we were very clear that there should be earmarked funds. It's true, as the Council of State says, that in 2014, cooperative parties increased by 660 million. kr to combat violence and abuse against children, in 2015 by 560 million. SEK, in 2016 by 730 million. SEK – and for 2017 the government's proposal is 176 million. kr, and it is after the Storting has decided that we should have a escalation. Governments are well aware that when a visitor to a children’s home, there is a deadline every day. One can't get the hearings taken when one is going to. One sees when one visits the police, that one has to settle matters. Medical studies are not taken to the extent to which they are intended. Kripos says they can take a lot more attackers or downloaders, but they don't have the opportunity to do that. Will the Council of State object to the Stortning doing what the Storting said, that one gets a commitment over several years with earmarked funds over a larger period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e226	The Council of State will at any time deal with what the Storting decides, and if the Storting adopts a budget with a strengthening of the fields contained in the plan of escalation, this Council of State will not, of course, oppose it. But I want to remind you that we have a historic commitment together with the Left and Christian People's Party on family protection, which is going to work with conflict-affected families and violent families. There is a historical commitment at health centres, where health sisters can be much more involved in and discovering and helping these families and seeing if there are children who are subjected to violence and abuse. For the first time, violence and abuse come into the education from this autumn. This enables teachers and those who work in kindergartens to ask the important questions, to see these children and help them. There's also a historic commitment to the police, and for the first time we've given money to the Stine Sofie Foundation to help the violent children. These are measures that we have developed in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e233	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e238	We're talking about the most expensive thing we have -- we're talking about our kids. In the evening post on Monday, November 21, it says that Councillor Höie is no longer concerned about the number of social pediatricians in our hospitals, although less than half of our children's wards have that competence. It's actually also going to be less than 20 pst. by the young people who are subjected to violence and abuse and who come to our children’s homes receive medical attention. We can't talk away from that. Does Councillor Horne agree with Councillor Höie that there is no longer cause for concern that we have enough social pediatricians in our hospitals to deal with young people who are subjected to violence and abuse? What does the Council of State think of that as less than 20 pst. of the children who are subjected to violence and abuse do not receive medical examination at our children's homes? Is that good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e243	We're talking about the most precious thing we have. When children and young people are subjected to violence and abuse, it makes an impression on all of us. We have to turn every rock and do what we can to make these children get the help and follow-up they're going to have. I am very pleased that there is a strengthening of the children's houses in the budget for next year. We also know that it is a challenge for a few children to have a medical examination. I am aware that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are working on this particular issue, so that more people will have medical examination. The Health Minister has also called on all regional health companies to participate in social pediatric competence and to strengthen the children's wards in hospitals. We also need to train more people and get more people to the children’s homes, so that more children get the medical examination they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e250	Sonja Mangt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e255	I want to continue with what the representative of Bollestad said, because the plan of escalation is good, but there is cause for concern when less than half of the 21 children's wards have their own doctors with competence. That's reason for concern when under 20 pst. by children in children’s homes receiving a medical examination. The Council of State has a great responsibility for the young and refers to the plan. I have heard in the media that she is satisfied with the measures. What has the Council of State itself done to children's homes and health services to ensure that they are equipped to receive the young people who need help now? The Council of State has considered earmarking substances, for example: together with the Minister of Health, to play more games in the children's wards?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e262	As I said in my previous answer, regional health companies are now required to ensure that there are doctors with special competence in the children's departments, and that there is close cooperation with the children's homes. We have an increase in next year's budget for the children's homes. It is an important area to ensure that children and young people are exposed to violence and abuse. It is also my responsibility to coordinate this work. We believe that this escalation plan clearly shows where the weaknesses are, where we need more strengthening. Strengths have also been put in to indicate where this government wants to go with this work. I want to stress – and I am very clear – that this escalation plan must be followed up in the wider budgets with more effort to combat violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e271	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e277	After nine years of childhood, there is a marked mismatch between the number of outreachs and the number of medical examinations carried out. As others have said before me here today, there is a lack of competence in the children's wards, and only 20 pst. medical examinations are carried out by children in children’s homes, although it is an inviting policy objective to ensure that this is done. I want to show you last year's budgetary settlement with the Left and Christian People's Party about a 45-million prize. NOK to just this job. According to comments from the Christian People's Party itself, this should facilitate the medical examination of all selected children in children's homes in the context of dissertation. My question is why has the government not followed up the budgetary conciliation from last year, and how many years does the Council of State think it should go before all children in children's homes get medical examination?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e288	Our goal must be to give it to all the children and young people who need medical attention. I have visited the reception of violence in Ålesund. There they have both a children's home and a violent reception. It is the recipient of violence who conducts the medical examinations. I am familiar with and aware that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are now working to see how more children can get medical examination. It is about the competence and capacity of the personnel. We can not just settle down on this, but work on it. The strengthening that is now in the budget of both the Minister of Health and Children's Hospitals, I also believe that I should be involved in ensuring that more children receive medical examination when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e297	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e302	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The focus now has been on violence and assault that has happened. It is very important that we continue our efforts to correct and make life better for those who have been abused, but there is also a great opportunity to prevent it. In addition to health centres, different families' homes, keeping up with enough midwives in the municipalities and organising municipalities to get the important prevention, the kindergarten is also an important instance. Increasing children's own competences about body, emotions and boundaries is one of the most important investments we can make to reduce child abuse, and not allow a bad childhood to last out. Will the Council of State strengthen its work in the framework plans of kindergartens, and how will he strengthen the staff's skills to help and also reveal this in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e313	The answer to that is yes. For many years it wasn't like that. In kindergarten and teacher training, it is obvious that those who are to become future kindergarten teachers and teachers need to be trained in just how they detect and handle children who have been subjected to violence, sexual abuse, etc. It is now part of teacher training. It is now also part of kindergarten teacher training. It's important. The new framework plan for kindergartens, which is now being consulted, further clarifies that kindergartens have a specific responsibility for this. I also believe that we are doing a lot that is important in school. The 668 million health oyster bet. available for municipalities to hire several health sisters is important and local authorities must use it for health sisters. It is important that they also make that priority. And now we also introduce lifelong learning as a separate theme area in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e322	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e327	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for the Child. It does not seem that the Minister for Children has taken over, or at all uses it in government negotiations, that she has a unanimous increase in her back, which has called for the escalation plan in line with the mental health escalation plan. It seems as if she settles down and can't even set a target for when all the children are going to have medical hearings at the children's houses, and that she settles for 176 million. NOK to escalate, of which 50 million. kr is non-significant money to escalate the school health service, as the minister of knowledge was right now in the pulpit and said, but there is money that the municipality can spend on anything else if they want to. If you promise children and young people a better school health service – and the council said in one of its articles how important it was – how can it be that the government does not think it is more important than that they do not earmark the money, so that the money can equally be used for asphalt or other things in the municipalities, and that the kids do not get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e336	We can never settle down when we know that there are children and young people out there who are subjected to violence and abuse every day. That is why this is a priority work for the government in many fields – for me as Minister of Children and for what I am responsible for, for the Minister of Justice, for the Minister of Health and for the Minister of Knowledge, to mention someone. This is a priority area for the government. We show this in the budgets we had for the previous year in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. It also clearly shows the obliging escalation plan we have now submitted. Then we can discuss whether there is too little or too much money, but what is important to me is at least that the measures contained in this escalation plan are a clarification of how committed this is, and that it must be followed up in the other budgets also in the future. This shows that the government is paying for this work. That's almost 900 million. This government's commitment to school health in the last few years. It's a historic bet. That SV now comes with earmarking – they have not done so before. It is now also earmarked in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e345	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e350	In our long-term country with large distances and varied industrial structures, it is necessary to ensure that all parts of the country have a wide range of study facilities that meet the needs of working and social life. That was probably also the reason for the establishment of the country’s district high schools in its time. Over the past decade, government has been pressing for a major structural change in the university and higher education sectors. Traditionally different societal and study assignments are now centralized in joint institutions. In the Centre Party, we have warned against this, not least in terms of professional training, which has been primarily responsible for supplying its surrounding area, all municipalities, with the necessary labour, such as teachers, nurses, engineers, etc. But what's going on now? As elsewhere when talking about structural changes, there is talk of taking synergies and seeing the distribution of study services as a whole. It means in plain text to reduce units to save money. The process at Nord University can illustrate the situation. There is now a risk that the Nesna study site, which until recently had seagoing colleges, will be ribbed for study facilities if primary school teacher training is moved. When the government in the draft state budget proposes changes that directly punish especially North University, in addition to the University of Agder and the University of Stavanger, it reinforces a previously demanding economic situation. Prior to the merger process, the Council of State said that the process should not lead to the closure of study sites. In view of the processes we are now seeing, can the Council of State ensure that the government will intervene if the processes lead to further centralisation of study offerings for teachers, nurses and engineers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e359	Firstly, it is also important to bear in mind that although the Central Party here at Stortinget was critical, the Centre Party has many local locations — for example. in my home state of Telemark, around NTNU in Trondheim and the interior – have been very positive to structural reform, so there are obviously different opinions, but the centre party is a party that respects local self-government, even in its own party. The point of structural reform is not to save money. If it had been, we would have demanded that you spend less money, had profit realization and other things. Rather, on the contrary, we put more money into the institutions that are merging, precisely because we know that the mergers cost money. The aim is better quality, better research – better than today, delivering on what work, region and business needs. It is quite right that the purpose of structural reform has not been to shut down study places either. I maintain what I said earlier, that you have a responsibility to have decentralised campers in the new institutions as well. I do not believe that it is Stortinget's or my job to go in and control the details of how you have the study portfolio connected. I think that is a responsibility that the institutions must take for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e369	I then find that the Council of State does not intend to take any political initiative to ensure the structure of study places. As I mentioned before, the new funding system means an economic blow for the new universities and the former colleges that have been merged into them. The Central Party has considered that a new funding system had to be remedied in the historical imbalances between the old and the new universities, but now the opposite is happening. This year, the government takes from basic funding to universities and colleges to provide more money to the institutions involved in mission and grant research. This will result in increased competition with the institutional sector and more unclear division of labour, but may also lead to a more difficult economic situation for colleges that train teachers and nurses. It is therefore interesting to know whether the Council of State believes it is a sensible and fair system when some institutions are almost disqualified because a large part of their offer is in the education of teachers and nurses — and how do they feel that these institutions should be able to ensure a higher quality in their study offerings in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e374	The new funding system was adopted last year, but the budgetary implications are coming this year, and there was a great deal of agreement in the sector on the two new things we put in, namely that not only did one reward for taking study credits but also for completing a degree. There was a great deal of agreement about, including among the new universities, and there was a lot of agreement that we would also reward universities and colleges to interact with society around. There are the two new indicators that have been introduced. If you look at the budget figures as such, you will see that for example. The University of Agder and the University of Stavanger are among the institutions that have all, the highest real growth. There's no rest cutting here, as it was under previous governments. Here it's strong real growth, while the University of Oslo -- this is of course not something I like to brag about -- has zero real growth. So drawing a picture that the institutions outside the Oslo pot, the so-called new universities, get worse budgets, while the old ones get good, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e381	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e386	The three new universities – Agder, Stavanger and Nord universitet – have pointed out that they risk losing 180 million. kr over two years for the introduction of the new funding system. So when the council here says that they don't lose anything, there must be either two completely different descriptions of reality, or the council must think that the three universities provide misleading information. But if they lose 180 million. kr over two years, it is dramatic for universities. That means there's almost half as much money behind a student in Bodø as it does in Oslo. It also means less teaching resources per student and tight staff for the new universities. I guess that's the opposite one would do. So the question almost has to be: what ambitions does the government have for the new universities when the first one does is to tighten up their economy, and what action will a take place to avoid having as unreasonable an impact as it is now experienced especially for the three institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e393	That's right what I'm saying, but it's also true that isolatedly, the new funding system is doing, because the University of Stavanger and the University of Agder and Nord are making it worse on some of the indicators, which they, as far as I know, have supported, that they're getting worse out of it. But then the budget has not only the financial system. If you look at the real growth of e.g. The University of Stavanger or the University of Agder or looking at how much extra money Nord University receives, it is in all those universities that good real growth – very good in Agder and Stavanger. It's e.g. Because when we put in fellows, it comes to the side, when we put in new places of study, it comes to the side. We will now – we will see how the budgetary agreement goes – allocate extra money to those who have merged. It's coming to the top. We need to allocate money to teacher training, because we – against the will of the Centre Party for the rest – are introducing a five-year master's programme for everyone. It'll be on top, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e398	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e403	In the submission of this year’s government budget, the surprise was quite great in the Grand Duchy and among universities and colleges, not that the changes in the financial system came, it was announced, but that it was implemented in exactly this way. One of the proposals was that the institutions should be rewarded for each bachelor and master candidate who was completely finished. Many have supported it, including the Workers' Party. But the few – if any – knew that this was to be linked to certain types of studies, i.e. what kind of cost category the master or bachelor candidate had gone on. Nevertheless, the government chooses to do just that. There is no reason why it should be more difficult to get a doctor to complete the education versus a nurse, or an architect versus an engineer. Finished. The consequence is that the institutions with the most expensive students get significantly more in the afterlife bonus, and vice versa for those who have cheap students. It's mainly the old universities and some scientific colleges that serve it. Why has the Minister of Knowledge involved the sector so badly along the way, as he usually does? And why does the government's solution differ from that of the expert committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e408	I believe that we have involved the sector well along the way by having a selection of experts, by the fact that it has been a big discussion, and then it continues the discussion. But then it must also be said that there is disagreement also among universities and colleges. I saw a newspaper article that described it as the old universities were on one side, the new universities on the other side, and then most colleges stood somewhere in the middle. I guess it's as simple as those who feel they're winning or isolated from losing are either satisfied or not satisfied with the way we've done it. So I think it is reasonable that a compensation scheme of this kind also takes into account the cost of the studies, simply because it makes sense that we have a funding system that distinguishes between very costly and less costly studies. Then it's also reasonable that it takes into account when you, for example. have a reward scheme or reward institutions for completing a degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e415	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e420	I think the new funding system for the university and higher education sectors makes sense, but that is how the government has chosen to introduce the new system, which is problematic. There are some institutions that come out badly and that get a weaker funding than they would get with the old system, and the government has chosen not to give these institutions any kind of compensation in the transition. This applies, inter alia, to: some of the institutions that we have a strong desire to lift, those that need some drag help now and not a push back. There are two of the colleges that are really forward-looking and that have ambitions to obtain accreditation as universities, namely the Oslo and Akershus College and the University of South-East Norway. I support the new system. I think it will contribute to increased implementation and more research cooperation. But I'm worried that some institutions will be less equipped to raise themselves quality when they lose money in transition without getting any kind of compensation from the government. Is it a concern that the Council of State also shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e427	The system could be introduced in another way. What we've chosen is to spread it over two years. That's a total of 180 million. kr to be redeployed – not only from the three so-called new universities, but completely redistributed with the new indicators. And to balance the effect, we spread it over two years. But I also believe that you have to look at the total budgets next to it. So if you just look at the real growth here, North University has a real growth, if our budget goes through, at 2 pst., the University of Agder has a real growth of 3.8 pst., the University of Stavanger has a real growth of 4.9 pst. By comparison – once again not something you should really boast of as a government council – the University of Oslo has a real growth of 0 pst. So the impression that's being tried because the so-called new universities come out of government's budget badly, while the so-called old universities come out terribly well, I don't think it's right. But then there are also now budgetary negotiations, so how the final phase of the money package is going to be, hopefully we'll know before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e435	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e440	I want to follow up on the question from Marianne Aasen, because I don't think the council answers it very well. There is a broad consensus — and it is quite obvious to most people — that there are more expensive studies than other studies. Clearly, the institutions that train doctors have to pay more for it than the educational institutions that train other and less costly students. But what's behind the candidate indicator is getting students through the course. The reason why we're going a little from the study score to the candidate indicators is that not only are you going to produce study scores on the study score, but you're actually going to get them through the degree. Does the Council really believe that the candidate model then takes into account that it is getting them through that point? Is it worse to get through a medical student than a nursing student? Is it right that we on the candidate indicator reward that they get through medical students rather than nursing students?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e449	I believe that the candidate indicator is not the reason why it has been set up in this way. This is an entirely real discussion, and it's also a difficult balance. However, the justification is not that it is more difficult to pass through students in a higher cost category, and doctors and nurses are a good example of higher and lower cost categories, respectively. The reason is that when you're going to reward, it's also reasonable that it's in a certain relation to the cost of the studies, also because if not, the incentives, i.e. the incentives, in the system would be too weak for someone and too strong for others. But that's not why it's more difficult to get through a NTNU civil engineer than it is to get through a nurse at the University of Molde. That's not the reason. But because there is a different price associated with the studies, it is also reasonable that the reward reflects it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e454	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e459	From one point to another – my question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Last week, the NRK told me that UDI has now begun to use resources on a little sleeping rule. Because they've begun to expose international students who work more than 20 hours a week, then to expel them from the country. International students studying at Norwegian institutions, who do not receive loans or scholarships, must currently have a little more than NOK 100000 in the account – which is what the authority believes is necessary to support itself. That means that many international students are trying to get a job to keep up the income level and have the money needed to stay here. But it is a rule that the same group – those who must have NOK 100000 in the account – may not work more than 20 hours of part-time per week except holidays. Now that we have obviously started to enforce this strictly, it leads to students who are both resource-intensive, inclusive and a resource for our society being sent out before they have completed their education, an education that could benefit both in the country they are from and in Norway. We see that other countries around us, the United States and Canada, are working systematically to attract smart people from other countries to get them to themselves. I wonder if the Council of State believes that today's legislation facilitates international students coming to Norway to study. Or does the Council of State see that there is a need to make the legislation a little more flexible, so that the students who have to work alongside the studies are not sent out by Norway until the studies are completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e472	I wonder if we might have to start talking about the United States in the past, which is that they worked systematically to attract good foreigners, but it remains to be seen. UDI is not my responsibility – the representative knows of course – so I can't answer for UDI's practice, I can only say something in general about the legislation. It's absolutely right that we want to attract talents to Norway, we want to attract foreign students. There is also a discussion about whether everyone has to come to Norway — even from the outside — and not pay a tuition fee, but it has been said clearly from the Stortinget that they do not want to, even if the government suggested it. We're trying to have neat arrangements so that it's clear who comes here to study, and who comes here to work. That is, as far as I know – I know this matter only from the media – the reason why UDI has now taken action. Because if you are here for a study stay, you have received a permit that is primarily for studying, and not primarily for working. Then you have to apply for it and come in another way. But, as I said, this isn't my constitutional responsibility, so I can't say anything more about this in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e481	Recently, there has also been a debate in the NRK and various media about the number of student housing offered to international or foreign students. The NRK stated quite clearly that seven out of ten students who are offered housing at the start of their studies in Oslo are from abroad. Later, this was somewhat corrected and moderated in view of the difference between international students and foreign students at the start of the study and later in the academic year. The council replied to the NRK that it was a problem if the proportion of international students in student housing increased at the expense of Norwegian students and their needs for student housing. It's like the student relationship itself determines the criteria, and they've decided this because they want to associate with these international students. What does the Council of State think about continuing to invest in the construction of student housing, and does he think that the Stortinget should go in and override the student relationship so that fewer student homes are allocated to international or foreign students?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e488	When the NRK asked me, I actually broke the first rule for any wise politician – I didn't have just one message, I tried to be nuanced and see the problem from several angles of incidence. It's never a good idea. That means that I tried to say both that we want to attract foreign students and that it is the responsibility of the institutions if they want to provide a housing guarantee. In many ways it may be necessary for many of those who come, and that's why most people do it. On the other hand, there is a problem in the housing market, especially in the largest cities, so the whole solution – if you don't want to do anything about the tuition fee or the kind of thing that really independent of it wouldn't necessarily do anything about this situation – is to build more student homes. I can go even higher than the record and historically high level we now have at 2,200 new student homes. What I think is most important is that you don't go back to a policy where the number of dwellings goes up and down like a yoyo, especially in election years, but that we keep a record high.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e495	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e500	I find it regrettable that there are still such negative debates about foreign students in Norway – it is about tuition, student housing, or in the case of the representative Nybø, whether one should also be able to work here. We are quite few in this country. We need to attract talent. It's good for Norway, and it's good for those who come. At the same time, we are investing a great deal in the expansion of the Nordics abroad. Half of Norwegian medical students are emigrated abroad. All Norwegian chiropractors are emigrated abroad. The government on its side was sceptical about increasing the number of study places for medical students and about establishing chiropractor training. My question is whether the Council of State sees that it seems a little double moral that we in Norway are still going to have debates about how problematic foreign students who come here are, while we are totally dependent on others accepting our own students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e507	The answer to that is no. I can't see it. After all, it is a more and more curious notion that the only way to attract talent is to have a so-called free tax-funded education, including for those from outside the EEA territory. The United States was brought forward as an example of the party trap of the representative Rotevatn. That's where it costs money to study. The United Kingdom is not very bad at attracting international talent. That's where it costs money to study. So having a discussion about that I'm completely open to. But I'm not promoting suggestions just to get them down on the Stortinget. This has already been voted down by Stortinget in this period. So, of course, if this slips into a discussion where there is suspicion of foreigners as foreigners, we have a problem. Because if you're going to want to come to Norway as a talent, there has to be an open and liberal atmosphere here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e515	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e520	It is a political goal to get more people to study in Norway. With the new practice it may seem that the UDI has been involved, it is tempting to ask whether foreign students are now part of the government's immigration policy. The Council of State has made it clear that UDI is not his responsibility, so I'm going to ask for something else. A consequence of which many more foreign students are forced to work more is the introduction of school money in Norway. The government proposed it in the autumn of 2013. Fortunately, it was stopped. However, Røres Henrik Asheim, on News Day 18 at the NRK, recently repeated Røres' wish to introduce school money. He then opened up so that it could happen in a majority with the Advance Party and the Center Party. The question then arises: How does the Council of State think that the introduction of school money will affect the situation of foreign students in Norway and the recruitment of foreign students? Is this case now finally dead and buried by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e527	Firstly, as far as I know, it's not that UDI has a new practice. They have only decided to follow up the legislation. I don't think there have been any regulatory changes. I have said that we have made a proposal on this. I believe that the proposal was reasonably put together, so that the institutions themselves could choose to spend the money on not having tuition fees for foreign students from outside the EEA. But they could also choose to charge tuition fees. So more and more countries are doing it. We are soon left alone not to have it. There's a lot of evidence that it makes us the most attractive country in the world when it comes to attracting talent. But then the Stortinget was very clear – in that majority, which, as far as I remember, also included the Centre Party: it was only the government parties that were in favour of the proposal. So there's no point in promoting it again in this period. So that way it's dead and buried in this period. In the context of Right-wing Programme work, which I also lead, there is a discussion about whether this should be included in the Right-wing Programme also in the next period. But at least that discussion will not end in this questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e536	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e541	Just to make it clear, there's nothing in the Center Party's study money program. The most important thing is that it is free and that Norway is a safe country. These are the main reasons why foreigners choose to study in Norway. We know that about 10 pst. of the students in higher education are international students. We believe that internationalisation is positive, both for the individual student, for the learning environment and for society at large. Sickness if free study places in their seas are a good thing, both Norwegian and international students depend on funding to feed themselves through the study. But then we don't have to create a code that is so tight and rigid that it becomes impossible to survive. We know that there are many Norwegian students who also have to work alongside the study, sail if they have loans from the Loan Fund as a security network. My question is: Does the Council of State think that there is the number of hours a job, or the number of exams and credits to be the most important when deciding whether a student is qualified for a stay in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e552	: Again: UDI is not my responsibility. But I believe that we have lived well until now to have a system where you distinguish between a stay to study and a stay primarily to work. I'm not able to say anything more about it and UDI's practice because it's not my responsibility. I just have to be allowed to add that it's good that the Center Party says they're positive to internationalization. But they have a strange way of showing it, because in their alternative state budget, the Senterpartiet cuts $40 million. kr to the Internationalisation Centre for Education, paradoxically also one of the head offices located outside the Oslo basin. Having some reductions to bring down bureaucracy is good, but cutting 40 million. kr to such a small organisation and remain for the same level of internationalisation, it is hardly possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e559	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e564	Simon Manana is the person who has updated the question left here. He comes from Uganda and grows up in a very poor condition. Through luck and randomness and not least personal commitment and resources, he has managed to move forward in life, with the help of supporting players in his path. He has now taken his master's degree in public health science at the University of Tromsø – only one thing in itself, with the background he has. Meanwhile, he has worked as a sink, a personal assistant, a boxer, and all the way he has paid taxes. Then one has suddenly used this sleeping rule that he has not been informed of at all, treating him as a criminal and escorting him strictly out of the country – a great resource for this country. Does the Minister see that this is a very square way of doing things? Will he take the initiative to soften the rules, so that some sense comes into the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e571	Based on what I've read about this matter, there's no doubt that Simon is an incredibly impressive type and has an amazing life story. But then I am quite sure that the representative does not believe that we can only ignore the legislation in individual cases. The law is there. Very well known, there is nothing new in the legislation that has come during this period of government. I think this has been the regulation for a very long time. Then it is precisely justified that there is a difference between coming here and getting a stay to study, and getting a stay to work. It is also the general reason why we all have a responsibility to deal with the legislation. But I agree that it may be that the legislation is too rigid. It's possible. At least after this round, I'm going to air it with constitutional responsibility for the UDI, and get the departments to see if there's anything that should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e578	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e583	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Differences in Norway in wealth and power are increasing, and there is a trend that it appears that the right side has finally discovered and started caring about. The Council of State writes in the Evening Post today that Norwegian school is in many ways ‘a discrepancy school’ and that investing in school is the safest way to social cohesion. But there is a great distance between life and learning. If you look at what the Minister of Knowledge actually does, then one of the most eye-catching steps in this year's budget is that the Red Isak kutter 600 teaching positions in secondary schools with special – not least social – challenges without doing the evaluation of the experiment and the assessment of the introduction of a teacher's norm that has always been a prerequisite for the 600 positions. So when you go into the situation at high school in the 98 municipalities that are affected, we see that the primary school credits are increasing, and that the need for special education is falling. We will not have an evaluation of this experiment for a long time yet, because the Council of State itself canceled it, but everything suggests that the end of the experiment is not based on knowledge, but on the Right's idea that increasing teacher density is not important. When we see these results I have mentioned – primary school credits, decline in the need for special education – does the Council of State think it might be an indication of the positive impact of these positions? If so, why is he cutting? If no: what in the world is he based his heaviness on the fact that this was not worth continuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e597	Here there were a lot of elements, let me take it experimentally systematically. There will be a research-based evaluation. The first interim report comes about not too much time, I don't remember the date, and the full report comes in 2017. Point two: How was this presented when it came from the red-green government? I can quote from the 2013 budget: ‘The four-year grant scheme shall be used to gain experience and knowledge on the effect of increasing learning resources.’ The red-greens described the scheme in the budget as such. They also write four-year state grants. So the fact that SV is now surprised that a grant like the government council, the red-green parties and the ministry have described as a four-year grant, now falls off after four years, it is not true. So I believe that the biggest difference – I say the socio-economic difference, but if I were on the left-hand side, I would say the class difference – in Norwegian school is related to what kind of knowledge the children are out with. It is related to systematic differences based not so much on income but on the level of education that parents have. It says something not only about drop-outs from high school, but also about learning to read, write and calculate really, if you get good grades, actually even about stress and maybe the incidence of mental disorders in school. The most important thing to do with this is not then, as the red-greens did, to give secondary school teaching positions to 98 selected municipalities in Norway, but a commitment to early intervention for all schools in Norway. That's where we've chosen to add the money, both the fresh funds that come in next year's budget, and the funds, together with not least the Christian People's Party, to more teachers in 1-4. class. If we are able to put measures in place, for example: in 1st class language, it is 80 pst. by students who have language difficulties that may come up to a proper level. If we wait until 4-5. class, the number as a rock drops to 15-20 pst. So the SV's policy came too late in the government period, it came too late in school, and there was a four-year trial scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e613	The Council of State must read better in the 2013 budget. It says it's very clear that this would lead to an assessment of a teacher's norm. That assessment has not been made by the Council of State. Let me then take him by the word. The Council of State says he's concerned about early efforts, and the Prime Minister here in the Grand Duchy has defined increased teaching resources in high school as late as efforts, and then I expect the Council of State to refer to the 1,000 new teachers from the 1st to the 4th. the steps which he and the cooperation parties promised last year. I would like to ask where they went, because we have asked the Ministry questions about this in the budgetary procedure and received the following answer: The Ministry of Knowledge does not have figures on how many posts the scheme has created or how many schools are affected. There is reason to be afraid of teaching bluffs here, and I wonder if the Minister of Knowledge can now tell us if there were actually 1000 new posts between 1 and 4. steps. Does he know how many new teachers it actually became? Can he guarantee that there is a real increase in the teacher's density in the 100 municipalities that would be affected by the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e622	What we can say is how the arrangement is set up. This is not free of charge within the municipal framework; this is earmarked for grants to municipalities. That is, this money should only be used for teacher positions in the first to fourth grade. class. So we haven't made any demands that you can't make any changes in school at all, that is. that we have no guarantee that there will be more teaching positions in each municipality. We have no guarantee of that. But we have a system that is at least 1000 jobs, I say ‘at least’ because there are also extra funds that allow them to hire even more people. It's the eartag for 1 to 4. class, and we don't have to go that far to find an example: here in Oslo, the new red-green city council has boasted of its increase in teaching positions in school, and as far as I can see, almost all the new teaching positions coming in red-green Oslo, funded by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e627	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e632	First of all, it is wrong that the four-year project should be completed, i.e. only for four years, and then it was over. This should be part of a process in which an experience of enhanced learning density should be acquired. So it's the council that wants to end this after four years. It is not set up for SV. We actually want to increase this. The preliminary reports show that this is a system for which teachers and schoolteachers are very positive. We see that primary school credits are increasing, and the need for special education has socks. These are the preliminary indications. Then the question will be asked again: If the research in retrospect shows and confirms this impression of the positive results, what does the state council do? Does he want to reintroduce this system that he has just abolished by removing these teaching positions, or will one just stick to Right's policy and not introduce more teacher settings, even if knowledge shows the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e641	I do not turn around at the department, the party leader in SV, the minister of knowledge and the red-green majority parties said. It is very clear in all documents and in all these references that this is primarily – as former knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen said in December 2012 – a probationary system, and it should last for four years. It is quite right that SV now, in opposition, believes that these positions should be continued, and I have no problem recognising that SV wants a national teaching standard and financing it in its budgets. So this might have been a red-green compromise. I'm not going to ask who was fighting for, and who was fighting against, but you can imagine. So the question was, what if the evaluation shows that this has been successful? In any case, it would not be a good idea to continue with a scheme that only had some selected municipalities that you would point out and that got extra teaching positions. If there is overwhelming evidence that more teaching positions are working, it must go to everyone, and it will especially have to go to those municipalities that have extra - large classes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e648	Christian Thinning Bjørnø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e653	Not only do we work with budgets by day – it also does municipal politicians in all colors across the country. We know from KS's budget surveys that there will be cuts in schools. As we've been to the past here today: 600 high school teaching positions are being removed, without the students getting any compensation, and before it's evaluated. In addition, the adviser in Gjøvik proposes to cut 8 teaching positions, in Lindesnes it is proposed to cut 7 positions, in Moss it is proposed to remove 2nd grade teaching positions. And from the 2014/2015 school year to this year, there are cut 60 teaching positions in Stavanger, where it is also proposed again to cut 9 million. kr. These are some of the many examples — yet the Council of State talks about more teachers in school. The state council has repeatedly said today that the questions he gets, do not rhyme with reality. Well, this is reality. My question is: is the Council of State satisfied that this is the reality of his watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e660	I believe that you should bet on school, and I believe that you should do so in all municipalities. I also know that there are municipalities in our common home country that are cutters. For example, the municipality of Skien, with the rapporteur for Arbeiderparti, has cut the school over several years. It has not been my party locally in Skien for. The question is not whether you can provide a guarantee of what each local government is doing. The question is, what do we do nationally? Then look at what happened during the period, and what's inside our budget for next year. In our budget, there is just a great deal of commitment to the municipalities for early action, which is natural to use, for example. in several teaching positions for the smallest children at all. There is also a municipal economy at the bottom, which in no way stands behind what the red-greens delivered in their last four years, and which means that the municipalities also have an opportunity to bet offensively in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e667	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e672	It warms up a Christian People's Party-heart to hear the Council of State talk so warmly about the teaching positions the Christian People's Party has had in the negotiations over the last few years. But it's not just the 600 high school teaching positions the government has proposed to cut. The government has also raised a budget where there will be around 600 teachers in the first to fourth level. class at school start next year than it was at school start now in autumn. It means fewer teachers to see each student, fewer teachers to help those who are struggling. In the Ministry of Knowledge’s own report, entitled ‘Reserve Force’ by teachers, researchers have asked teachers who have chosen to leave the profession, why they did so, and what is needed to get them back. I quote from this report: ‘Many of the keys think they are in making the classes smaller. Fewer students in the class make it easier to ‘enter the student’s world’. It also facilitates parental cooperation.’ My question is whether the Council of State takes these teachers seriously, and whether he thinks that the government's proposal to reduce the number of teaching positions responds well to what the teachers themselves think is the solution for more people to succeed in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e685	Here I have to put the good representative of the Christian People's Party in place a little bit, because it was a once-in-a-lifetime, which the representative is also aware of, after the budgetary conciliation last year. It contained permanent funds for more teaching positions. That's why I say at least 1000, for which the municipalities have received money. There were also disposables for the autumn, which it was natural to use in schools and teachers, but again: disposables. There, of course, we have a completely different bonding of that money. It is therefore not possible to require a municipality to use it explicitly – in agreement with the Christian People's Party – as disposable means, to hire new teachers when they do not know what comes in the next budget. So I totally disagree that you describe it as a cut. I think there are good reasons to look at how in smaller groups you can have better education. One of the things that is well documented to work is for example: intensive training in shorter periods for those who are struggling. We want to add up to that. It is also likely to require a few more teaching positions, but I think it is more important than a general decline in group size from 20 to 18 or from 24 to 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e692	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e697	The Prime Minister said, as the representative Lysbakken said, in an earlier Question Time, that spending money on more teachers in high school is late, so we should understand it as the opposite of early effort. So it's said at a time when we've just read in the paper that those students who need the most, they get teachers with the least skills to teach. In addition, the government thinks that there are over 9 000 non-qualified teachers at school. My question is: does the Council of State share the Prime Minister's view that it is unwise, and that it is too late to provide for increased teacher coverage in high school, even if the evaluation of the scheme we have had would prove to be positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e704	We should get the evaluations first. Of course, youth school is very important, but objectively it is late in school. After high school, you have to go to high school. So this is completely at the end of primary school. What has been most important to me, and which, moreover, has also been most important for the cooperation parties – I have to add – once we have made budgets, is to put the effort in the past. Let me give you an example: if you're an apprentice and you're going to learn, you've had about 1,500 math lessons -- 460 of them, roughly, you've had 1-4. steps. If we don't manage to lift the students and get them to crack the math code and the reading code early in school, we'll have problems later in youth. I think it's good to bet on youth too, of course, but when we're going to give priority, I think the next big promise is going to be early school effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e711	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e716	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Recently, Nav came up with a number that once again shows a decline in fathers' withdrawals from parental leave, as a result of the government's cut in the father's quota. There was just this many warning against when the government took over and immediately started cutting. LO, NHO, scientists and newspapers in the leadership position stated that this was a retreat. But as usual, the government did not listen to anyone but itself. After many years of increase in the parental quota and thus also an increase in the fathers' withdrawals, it is discouraging to see that the critics were correct. So the result is that many children lose valuable time with their father. Many men lose rights that have gradually been strengthened over many years. And many women are weaker in the labour market. If we are to succeed in the demanding economic waters of Norway and of the world community, it is important to ensure that as much work as possible can be done. A prerequisite for this is that it is possible to combine work and care. It has contributed to Norway being at the world top in terms of employment rates and fertility. The government's policy makes this predominance difficult. Is the Council of State proud to be the first Council of State in Norway to actively contribute to children's getting less time with their father and to the weakening of women's position in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e725	I am proud that Norway has one of the world's best parental care systems, and that mothers and fathers today have a unique opportunity to combine family life and work. The government's family policy is based on freedom of choice and flexibility. We have confidence that the parents themselves can make the choices that are best for themselves and their family. Families are different, and the most important thing here is that children now have more time with their parents. Therefore, the government has increased the common share, so that more children now have the opportunity to stay longer at home with their parents – unlike the previous government, who actually deprived children of the right to be at home with their parents, as they had the two weeks that were reserved for their father, which meant that the family lost those weeks whose father did not have the opportunity to take those weeks. And the one who lost it was the child. I'm glad we have a good parental pension scheme, and no one here is losing any right. There is nothing in the law that says that Father can take no more than the ten weeks that are there today. I am also pleased with the father talk that is out there, and have challenged employers to be much clearer about challenging their father and mother to distribute the weeks as appropriate, but also that several fathers can take more than the 10 weeks that are there. The common share is increased, making families more flexible, and more children get to be at home with their parents in the vulnerable phase in which they are in when they are so young.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e732	I record that the Council of State is diligent in its praise of the world's best parental leave scheme, despite the fact that the party of the Council of State has never contributed to our being in the situation we are today. We see that fathers' withdrawals from parental leave are closely related to the size of the quota. If the quota goes up, there's a spring pick-up too. I believe that it is no shame to change the position if you see things going in the wrong direction, or if you encounter massive setbacks, as the government does now. Earlier this year, we saw, for example, that the Christian People's Party thought it was wrong to reduce the feather quota, and that the party is considering increasing it to 14 weeks. The country meeting in the Left gathered earlier this spring in 15 weeks for each of the parents. So while all parties other than the government parties are now discussing how we can develop the parental leave for the best for the children, parents and society, the government is stuck in old-fashioned thinking. Is there any limit to how low fathers' withdrawals from father's time can be before the government is considering strengthening the father's quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e737	Unlike the representative of Grande, I believe that the family is able to solve this by itself, that what is best for their family is chosen when the children are young. There is nothing wrong with the law today; there are no fathers who have to deal with their employers and demand their father's quota. The father's quota is today in ten weeks, but father can take twelve weeks, fourteen weeks, sixteen weeks and more than that if he wants it, and if the family finds out that that's what's best for them. With regard to the system we have today, which has also been supported by the Progress Party – and there is a programme debate in the individual parties now – I am referring to a declaration of government and a cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, where the bourgeois parties have been aware that we want to give parents and families greater flexibility and increase the common share of the parental death penalty system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e744	There will be follow-up questions – first Hege Haukeland Liadal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e749	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. There is no lack of evidence; there is no lack of response, or, as someone would have chosen to call it, ‘hyles’ of reactions, of the government’s absence of gender equality measures and laws. How does the Council of State think that men should be equal caregivers, when she conducts a policy that deprives fathers of precisely this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e757	The government is pursuing an active gender equality policy. We have just made a proposal in Stortinget to equalize parents, where father will have more rights in the event of a breakup. We are in consultation with a proposal that father should also be able to take over and maintain his father's quota in the event of a breakup. So there are several measures this government has taken to promote father's position in gender equality. And then almost always, when you talk about equality, the spring ratio is drawn out. Increasing the common share and having a quota of ten weeks for both mother and father has been a deliberate choice. We disagree with that policy, and that is the case, but there is a majority in the United Kingdom today to increase the common share and have ten weeks to father and ten weeks to mother, and the fact that this government, together with the cooperation parties, has chosen to focus on increased flexibility and freedom of choice for families is a value that is also important to have with it in this debate – and the parental pension scheme is also for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e764	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e769	For the Christian People’s Party, it is important that children also have time with fathers. This makes the Christian People's Party probably, if the national meeting agrees with the Programme Committee, will work to raise the feather quota to 14 weeks again, as it was, and not 10, as it is now, simply because we see that the changes we are making here on the Storing seem very normative. Today, I think most fathers think it's the 10 weeks you have, and maybe the employer also thinks the same way. Children's right to be with their father during the leave period has meant that in our alternative budget we have also proposed that Dad should be granted a self-evident right to leave, and not that it should depend on whether or not Mother has income – just to ensure that Dad has this opportunity to be with the child in its first year of life. Does the Council agree that it is worth prioritising schemes and changes that give the child more time with father?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e778	Now I'm not going to go into the debate on the Christian People's Party programme for the next big period, I'm dealing with the cooperation agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left to increase the common share and have a federal quota of ten weeks. Then I share the intention of Becquerading that it is important that Father be as much as possible with his children, both in a life together and after a breakup. There is nothing wrong with the law today that Dad can take out more than the 10 weeks, and I miss that we politicians sometimes also challenge employers, as to what questions they ask when both mother and father come and say how many weeks they should have. They have an activity obligation in the field of equality, and it is possible to challenge the father to take several weeks. Then, fathers from 2000 have had an independent right to benefit from parental leave, but they have not had the right to exit, because we have a duty of activity. It is also a budgetary question. If we're going to give all the fathers the full right of withdrawal, it's going to cost us $30 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e785	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e799	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and the President will present the electronic question list to that effect. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question I, from the representative of Eirik Sivertsen to the Minister for Finance, will be transferred to the Minister for Industry who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Industry, the question is moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 2, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who will direct him. Question 3, from the representative of Are Health to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Åsmund Aukrust. Question 10, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Question 14, from the representative of Audun Otterstad to the Minister for Industry, will be raised by the representative Anna Ljunggren. Question 16, from the representative Martin Kolberg to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. Question 19, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be moved and answered before question 3, at the request of the Council of State. Questions 20, 21 and 22, from the representatives Per Rune Henriksen, Rigmor Aasrud and Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Oil and Energy, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, as the Minister for Oil and Energy has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e824	The first question to be answered after these changes is question 2 from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e832	This question, from Heidi Greni to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who directs the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e837	«The loss of water from our water supply networks is calculated at an annual cost of 1.6 billion. krones. Does the Council of State consider this to be a problem to be solved, and what action does he think should be taken in this case by the State and local authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e850	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Greni, for this question, which gives me the opportunity to provide brief information on the situation. Under the Public Health Act, municipalities are obliged to promote public health through the means allocated to them. As a result, the municipalities have overall responsibility for water supply. The Planning and Building Act also provides for municipal water supply obligations. Municipalities often own water supplies, but in other cases private responsibility for supplying water for drinking, hygienic use, extinguishing water, etc. Large parts of the water supply network are built after the war and have varying quality and durability after so many years. Material choices, soil conditions and climate change affect the stability of the wiring harness. The result is that the pipes close again, there are holes formed in many places, the pipes break, or they crumble. This is referred to as the maturity of the pipes. For many years this has been more than the rehabilitation and replacement of the pipes. The result is an increased risk of numerous and extensive wire fractures, multiple outbreaks of disease due to the introduction of contaminated water into the water pipes, or the prolonged disappearance of water. Data collected over several years show that both the water network and the sewer network have had a lower rate of renewal than is required to prevent maturity from increasing. In the national water and health targets adopted by the Government on 22 May 2014, one of the objectives is that the substitution rate for the grid needs to be significantly increased for some years in order to recover its maturity. Another objective is that the leakage from the grid must be lowered to 25 pst. or less. Today, the leakage is 30-50 pst. in many places. This leads, as Mr Greni points out, to an economic loss by the fact that purified water is at stake. Municipalities and private plant owners therefore need to increase investment on the grid in the coming years. Some installations will need to have significant investments, while others will have fewer investments. For municipalities and private waterworks, the costs will be borne by the water and sewerage fee over several years. A new drinking water regulation will make clearer requirements for the operation and maintenance of the mains. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Food Authority will be driving forces to achieve the national objectives of improving the quality of the management network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e867	That the water supply is a municipal responsibility, there is no disagreement about it. However, the challenge of establishing safe, environmentally sound and economically sound water supply for citizens across the country is, of course, also a national responsibility, in line with all other major societal tasks. That's why we in the Central Party challenge the government on how the state can contribute to this. When the loss of water is so large, with such high costs, and when the environmental challenges of water and sewerage are so great, it is not the challenges that each municipality is able to solve by itself. We do not ask for the state to override municipal responsibility for good and safe water supply, but I ask: how can the state be a contributor to this becoming much better than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e872	Here we are in a situation where the municipalities have a clear responsibility, and they also have a unique opportunity to finance their responsibilities by allowing them to charge those who use the water, fees. It is also the case that many of the measures for repair involve considerable costs, which the representative is also involved in his question, with regard to the leakage of purified water. So here all the incentives were supposed to be in place for the municipality to do a good job, but nevertheless we see that this hasn't been prioritised and followed up for years. That is why we have also met with a new drinking water regulation, which includes: propose clearer requirements for the operation and maintenance of the wiring harness, as well as a clearer requirement for competence. Clearly, this is an example of some smaller municipalities having challenges in terms of having large enough professional environments to meet the challenges ahead. That is why it is also important to carry out the municipal reform that we are now carrying out. Then the government has made sure that a network is set up to provide competence support for the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e877	Some municipalities are struggling with professional environments. Many municipalities are struggling much more with enormous expenditure, and if this is self-financing, the cost for each subscriber will be so high that it is not sound. It is tax-financed, and the few municipalities have the financial capacity to subsidise it. An important reason why they are unable to keep up with the need is that they do not dare to raise the fees enough and, in the case of municipalities with the lowest and highest municipal charges, no indicators of how the water and sewerage network actually looks like in these municipalities. So finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: does he think it is satisfactory that the situation is as it is today, also for health reasons? Or does the state have to contribute more than it does today, in order for the municipalities to be able to do something about this much faster than what is happening today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e882	No, the situation is in no way satisfactory and there must be a completely different rate of investment unless the maturity is to continue further. This has a major negative impact on municipalities, it has consequences for the inhabitants and for those engaged in industrial activities in the municipalities. Therefore, my clear message to the local politicians is that it is a very bad strategy to push on this and be afraid to take in the money needed to maintain the water supply network, because then the bill is only getting higher and higher gradually, and that is unfortunately what has happened in some municipalities. Then, of course, there is the total tax and tax burden on the population who are occupied by it, and therefore it is fully possible to continue to have low taxes and taxes for the population, but at the same time to take in as much money as necessary to maintain the sewerage network. That's also something that the residents are earned with. Here, however, local politicians must take responsibility, and I believe that the Central Party agrees with the government that this must be a municipal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e887	So we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e895	«It costs 270 million. SEK annually to rent prison sites abroad, plus the currency changes of SEK 21 million. in the case of 2016, the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be equal to or less than the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 107(1) of the Treaty It is now planned to build prisons in Norway. Has the Council been given an assessment of the consequences of a forced construction of prisons in Norway on the number of jobs in this country, and why does the Council of State think it is better to create jobs in the Netherlands than in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e902	I would like to thank the representative Kari Henriksen for a creative twist on a matter of criminal care and renting prisons in the Netherlands. As the representative is aware, the government is very concerned that we should have sufficient criminal enforcement capacity in Norway, so that convictions can punish their punishment here as quickly as possible. The representative is very familiar with this. I therefore do not fully agree with the premises on which the representative uses his question. As the representative knows, it has traditionally taken around eight to ten years from the start of an investigation until a new prison is completed. The right-wing Party government has introduced a standard module for prison buildings, and in this way we have reduced the clear time, or construction time, dramatically. It is difficult to imagine how one can concentrate and enforce the construction of prisons in Norway, especially in addition to what we have already done. We work with prisons in Norway as quickly as possible. When the government took over in October 2013, we also took over a pay queue of 1,213 judges. There was a large shortage of custody facilities, and there has been a large maintenance run in Norwegian prisons. Last Friday, the payroll was reduced to less than 280 judges. The situation is under control, the maintenance work is well under way, and the number of overshoots in police arrests has been dramatically reduced. We have done this by having several thoughts in our head at the same time, both by implementing short-term measures that have an impact on both the queue and the other areas I pointed out, and by implementing long-term measures such as the construction of new prison sites. As the representative is well-known, we have started work on new prison sites at Eidsberg and Ullersmo. They will be ready for use in 2017. New prisons in Agder were not designed when the Right-Fremskrit Party government took over. It's now well on track. So I really don't agree that the option is between creating jobs in Norway and creating jobs in the Netherlands, if you look at this with some realism. Through the construction of prison sites and maintenance work, we create a lot of jobs as the situation is today. According to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, the construction project on Ullersmo and Eidsberg has contributed about 200 new annual works. The exceptional maintenance in prisons from 2014 has not only improved the settlement conditions for the prisoners and the working conditions of the employees, but has also created about 200 annual works. The design and establishment of new prisons in Agder also leads to increased employment, initially for the construction project and then for permanent work in criminal care. Thus, by renting prison sites in the Netherlands, building new prison sites in Norway and increasing maintenance, the government has helped both to reduce the pay queue, or actually to remove it, in real terms, to improve the settlement conditions and to create jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e917	I want to continue on the realism focus that the Council of State was in: 1.4 million. SEK to the transport coordinator and legal proceedings, 9,5 million. kr for air transport, tour guides, etc., SEK 1,5 million. kr for administrative expenses of Ullersmo – that is 12.4 million. to bureaucracy and administration. And after three years, there's not a single concrete job on Agder so far, a high-freedom part of the country, where a co-ordinated business and politicians have been asking for long-term start-up of prison construction. Is the Council of State comfortable with its choice of investments in other countries' employees, bureaucrats and administrations, when he meets staff members of the police in Norway who do not have sufficient framework to operate properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e924	It is a characteristic of both politicians and many others that one forgets very quickly. I think it is necessary to remind the representative Henriksen that her own party has been in office for eight consecutive years, and so they were unable to solve any of the challenges that the sitting Right Party government has solved. And then, of course, one has to find other ways of criticizing the government. I appreciate that, because that, of course, sharpens the government's work even more. But it is wrong to claim that what we do in the Netherlands has a direct negative impact on what we could have done in Norway. So we're solving major societal challenges by removing the pay queue, we're almost out of police arrests with respect to the past, and a prison place in the Netherlands costs about the same as a prison place in Norway. If I could ask a counter question, it would be if the representative Henriksen has calculated how much it costs to have people standing in the queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e933	Luckily, the Minister of Justice is sitting at the helm and is going to count on things like that, so he can go back and figure out his calculator when he gets to his office. But to comment on some of what the Council of State said, it was not possible to build faster in Norway: we have the ski, Halden and Bergen, where there have been opportunities to realize places from 100 to 250 – much faster than the government has provided. The freedom has now taken hold. In Agder, there is a high level of unemployment, and the business community has been asking for measures, but the government has not been able to do so in these three years. We see that criminal services work by having a low budget framework. We have had 214 direct rapes against employees in Norwegian prisons, while millions go abroad. Is that a good distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e940	I think we have to be honest enough to say that this is about priority, and I hear that the Workers' Party would rather have had a long queue and a later advance in the construction of prison sites in Norway. The representative of the Workers' Party would like to say that. I believe it is wrong, and the government believes it is wrong. It has been absolutely essential for us to put in place a rapid growth in settlements. Therefore, the Netherlands option of 242 places that were ready for use in a very short time and that have helped to reduce and actually remove the cows in traditional terms was extremely important. Consider the human costs of those who are sitting and waiting in these queues managed by the Workers' Party for eight years. It is an important political ‘Statement’, an important political priority to ensure that convictions are quickly acquitted. We are building down the maintenance chain, creating jobs in Norway, and at the same time we are building new prison sites in Norway. So this is a win-win situation. But I understand that the representative Henriksen would rather have maintained a longer queue than implement the measures the government has implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e947	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e955	This question, from the representative of Are Health to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e960	‘On Twitter we could read that the party’s representative of the Grand Prix Ulf Leirstein wrote: ‘The drivers get back to work and stop hitting thousands this way. Acting as a pure mob organisation." We have also heard earlier proposals and statements from representatives of the Progress Party who attack the striker. Does the Council agree with its party traps that the strike should be weakened?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e967	I don't think the striker should be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e972	I would like to thank the Council of State for having given a very clear and unambiguous answer, and that in this way he also dissociates himself from the opinions of both parties and, in particular, the judicial spokesperson in the Advancement Party during this strike. Then I want to drill the other one that was presented. The Council of State has a great responsibility for the trust between the parties in its sector. We could read that bigings representatives from his own party believe that the Norwegian Lokomotivemannsförbund acts as a ‘pubile organisation’. Do the Councils agree with that designation of an important organisation in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e979	I see no need to discuss the characteristics given on Twitter, but I just want to point out that in the quote given by the representative, it does not say that a person should restrict the strike. So the premise on the question is also wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e984	I record that the Council of State will not respond to his opinion that the Norwegian Lokomotivemannsbund is a mob organisation, as has been said by big business representatives from his own party. Then he says that the striker's rights have not been challenged by the Progress Party either. Well, there's a lot of examples that Progress Party politicians say that, and what the big-time representative here says, is that they should "get back to work and stop hitting thousands this way." It is difficult to read it in any other way than that the representatives of the Progress Party attack the striker.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e991	It is possible to read it as if someone is annoyed that the trains are standing. That doesn't mean that one refuses them to strike, but one is declared above the consequences. So, you can read it in a completely different way than the Workers' Party chooses, because the Workers' Party wants to create a black and white debate. I just want to stress that I see the Locomotive Association as an organisation that I speak well with. We disagree on some things, but we agree on a lot. The strike that was now, we managed to solve the parties as quickly as the strike, and the national agent contacted us. It took a few hours from they contacted us, until we gave the answer that they said: then we go back to work. I used many occasions through the media to say that my door is always open if one wants to discuss safety on the railway. They used many different tracks before they found out that they wanted to open that door, and then they got a positive response. I'm glad we helped to stop the strike quickly. I don't think of them as a mob, I think of them as a good, legitimate trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1009	No one has said that profitable state enterprises should be destroyed. What she said was that a monopoly would be broken, and there is something quite different. In the question, there is also a claim that we have a privatisation proposal for the road. It's completely unknown to me. I don't know if a single road bill that we say should be taken over by private and controlled by private. On the other hand, it is well known that both this and the former governments have put many tasks into tender. For example, most of the roads in this country are built by private companies under the previous government, under today's government, and I'm pretty sure – in a long time under another government. We see that having a market with private actors that offer services that compete to make the best possible and cheapest possible is an advantage for our economy – ensuring that there is a constructive competition between different actors about who can help society further, but who sees that they can also make money on it, which they can reinvest in more jobs, better product, new technology, others and better solutions than those we had yesterday. It's one of the things that drives the world further. To give the impression that we're going to privatize our roads – that's just nonsense. There's never been a proposal from this government, and it's not going to be. What we've said, on the other hand, is that we're going to build more roads in this country, and we're going to build more railways. Unlike the previous government, which made the railway rust, we're upgrading the railway. Unlike the previous government, which allowed the road network to decline gradually year by year, we are ensuring that we maintain the road network, because we are going to build this country. We have to make sure that we take care of the infrastructure we have. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of business towards the rest of the world. We're going to make sure that we're more productive in the future than what we were yesterday -- precisely because it's our production that creates our values, that makes us get tax revenues, that makes the public sector work, provide good police services, good health care, good teachers -- and good infrastructure, because infrastructure is a common good that all parts of paying for, and that all parts of being able to use. In the railway, we do the same thing. We're making sure that we invest more in the railway now than ever before. We maintain more than ever before. We now buy more train services from the NSB than ever before. We get a record growth in the number of travelers. Many people are concerned about how many more people are driving a car, year after year, and believe that this is a problem. But the growth in the number of public travellers, especially with the railways, is even greater because people get a better offer on the railways. More money for infrastructure is the most important difference between us and those who have previously managed. The other important difference is that we better organise the railways, so that we bring together responsibilities that have now been split up. But everything still has to be state owned. We have to own each rail. We have to own each screw. We have to own each of the beams. We have to own the power lines that go over them. We're going to make sure that we own the material, own the platforms, own the stations, and we have a railway director who's going to be the strategic actor who tells us what we want with the railway, what kind of offer we're going to have, who's going to be able to use it. It's not privatisation. It's good public governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1020	I agree with the Council of State in one thing, and that is that there is another government that is going to build roads if not too long. He is quite right about that, but he does not answer the question. The government itself has taken out nearly 600 million. kr in dividends from the NSB in 2015. The government needed the money for the government budget, and then it was obviously very nice to have a profitable state company to go to to find the money. Now, the Council of State is working febrilely to outsource the public to the private, so that the private companies can manage profits and make dividends. Then I have to ask again: why is it best for some private companies to have access to valuable dividends from the operations of profitable state companies at the expense of the community – I call it – collected values?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1027	What was the question was: ‘Why is it so important for the government that profitable state enterprises are destroyed? [[...]] I told you we shouldn't. We're going to enable the NSB to compete on equal terms with everyone else, just as we make sure that the public enterprises we have are going to be as effective as possible because they provide services and products that society wants. Here, however, the Labour Party deliberately mixes the desire not to have a monopoly, that the player who is now a monopoly company should be destroyed. That's not what we're saying. That claim is just as irrelevant as the claim that the Workers' Party now made, which referred to the dividend policy of 2015. If we rather look at the policy for 2017, the government proposes to take NOK 0 in dividends from the NSB – NOK 0. The Workers' Party's alternative state budget, on the other hand, shows that they want to take more than 200 million. kr in dividends from the NSB. If the dividend policy is an example of whether or not one supports a state company, we now see that it is the Workers' Party that crushes the NSB, while the government strengthens the capital of the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1037	Now it's coming a lot, but I'm going to go back to the Eastfold course. Initially, I have a quote from the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, who has said earlier: If we get government power, I will at least promise that we will hang the sign at every toll station in this country, where it will be said "free" as long as the Progress Party is in government. The representative of Stortingsretten Hoksrud has followed up: we are going to be in government, and then we are going to make sure to remove the banner of Norwegian drivers. Now we see how it has gone: there has been a record in toll payment with the Progress Party in government, and the lifting break can be counted for heads, so something like 37 billion. breach of promises during the time when the Minister for Transport has been in government. Now we also see that the planning of intercity is in jeopardy. Then we have to ask: can the Council of State guarantee that the money will come, so that planning can go as intended, and that there will be no delays in the development of intercity on the Eastfold Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1046	It was a theme I was asked about in Stortinget for approx. two weeks ago and answered extensively. We've allocated almost 1 billion. kr more for intercity planning than the Workers' Party sketched as necessary when they were in government. We have shown a willingness to prioritize this. So I know that in the media there have been speculations where a fear that things are being jagged, exposed and canceled. That's not the case. We must make as good progress as possible, both through appropriations and through political decisions. Then I noticed that the representative Lauvås also brought this up with tolls. Yeah, I'm proud to represent a party that fights for people getting a little bit more money in their wallet, that you don't have to pay every time you drive on a road. I record that the Workers' Party is standing here and choosing to vote in Stortinget that they are able to stop the proposals of the Advance Party. The government has proposed to cut the toll by half a billion. kr in the budget for 2017. The representative of Lauvås said that we should not spend money on that. Tolls must be high, says the Workers' Party. The party of progress has shown in government that we want lower toll rates. It's sad that the Workers' Party is trying to stop us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1058	‘I note that the Council of State has chosen to disregard entirely the decision of Finnmark County to strengthen Alta Airport as a flight hub in connection with the state’s purchase of flights in Finnmark. [[FOT Routes]] What assessments have the State Councils made to make Hammerfest the choice of which to choose instead of Alta?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1065	In this debate, it is important for me to stress that we look at Alta Airport as an important airport. We've made sure that you've had good consultation rounds, that you've had good professional investigations in front of this FOT tour offer, just like you had the last time you did. In both investigations, both the one from Møreforsking and the one from TØI, has an estimate of how to get the best possible offer to people living in the county and in northern Norway, by laying the routes in different places. In the offer that has come, there is a requirement for departures associated with Alta to and from Vadsø, Kirkenes, Berlevåg, Båtsfjord, Hammerfest, Honningsvåg and Mehamn. It's the exact same ones that have the FOT route offer today. So it's not a impairment as to where you fly. The frequency of take-offs is required and the number of seats to be offered during the year is required. It's also unchanged, so it's not the impairment that gives the impression. The fact that one would like to have another is another debate. But giving the impression, as the Workers' Party has done a lot of places around the country, that now things are going to be ruined, when one actually has as many departures as before, I really think it's creating a slightly negative, gloomy image of its own home region. For these are signals that business picks up and believes in, and if they think that an actually gets a furrow from an offer when the offer is usually slightly altered in terms of just when the planes come and go, but there are as many departures in a day, then it creates an uncertainty in the business that I think is unfortunate. Those who have investigated this, which is outside the department, outside the political sphere of the department, have seen that in Alta in 2015 there were at the base of 360 000 passengers as the country and lighted up at Alta airport. About 200,000 of them travelled the Alta-Oslo route. So has a look at if one, if one had changed the pattern, could get more planes in, and what that would mean for the airport as such. Then one sees that if one had done anything of what was desired, one would have liked to get about. More than 14000 passengers to Alta, of a total of around 360000. That's a rather marginal increase. But what they've also evaluated is whether this would give a better travel day for the 14,000 who are then channeled into an aerodrome other than today. The external assessment by the professionals for the department is that one would have a lower travel offer for these. I have a great deal of understanding of the wishes that Alta has, so at the same time, I stress that the routes that go to Alta today are maintained in terms of destinations. But those who would like to do so would probably offer a lower travel offer for those who had been affected, and then we have given priority to providing the travel offer for those who are actually travelling. One might well say that 14,000 extra travelers had meant a lot to Alta airport, but in the large sum we see that there are other things we should do if we're actually going to lift the levels strongly, than to exacerbate the daily journey of some travel routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1076	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I wasn't surprised that that was the answer I got, but I'm very surprised that you choose so consistently to ignore the popular level and their wishes. Many would have said that it might have been a little arrogant by the Council of State to ignore it, and I actually agree with them. The impression is that, according to Finnmark Dagblad, it is the consultants who know best, followed up by the council and his staff – we know best, Basta! That's the impression we're left with. One of the arguments used is that you cannot force the passengers in Finnmark to Alta. But the state council thinks it's okay for passengers to be forced to Tromsø. When I go to Lakselv or the Churches in the daytime, I actually have to go through Tromsø to get to Churchnes and Lakselv. It's okay, the council says – but I don't think it's good. With regard to the extra passengers, it is so marginal with the direct flights that the 14000 passengers might have made us secure the passenger base for direct flights, despite the air passenger charge imposed by the Government of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1085	There were many different and substituting arguments here. I'm very concerned that we're going to give the best possible flight offer to people in this country, because especially in District Norway, the planes are much of the same thing as the bus is in central strike. That is why we have proposed that we give Unterøe, who now won the tenders, an opportunity to deliver the best possible offer. Therefore, rather, local politicians, and the Workers' Party's large group, should take advantage of the opportunity offered to Byrøe now, when they travel around and meet each region to look at what is the temporary route – I stress that Byrøe himself says that this is the temporary route that will apply from 1 April – in order to get an idea of what we can do differently in order to offer an even better route. For Onkøe makes money in one way, and that's by having people in their planes. The more they get to travel, the more money they make, so it is in their interest to make a good offer. We're going to do that, and we're going to do it. Onions has told us that if they could land a little later at some airports, they could also think of the flight structure a little differently. I'm more than willing to open that discussion to take with me. Therefore, a use should be made of the occasion when Returning... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1092	A little later means usually after midnight, and it's late enough. But speaking of flights, when the Council of State asked for offers on the so-called FOT routes for the next tendering period, one would not listen to the people and the political level. It was decided to run without hearings. I don't think that's good. You're left with the impression that someone knows best, and I think that's a bad starting point for creating better flight routes. There's a full uprising in Finnmark today. Maybe the Council of State knows that, and I really want to ask the question based on an ingress into a chronicle, where it says that most people are “cursed” in Finnmark. Do people have the most reason to be “cursed” in Finnmark, based on the routes and the offer that the Council of State and his staff are presenting today to the people of Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1101	If I had been presented with the reality that the Workers' Party is coming with, I would also have been cursed. But when one knows that one has the same paths forward as one has had, it's made a sense that things have disappeared, without actually having it. That's why I think the best thing we can do now is start breathing with your stomach and make sure that a user has the opportunity to talk to onions. Onions come and talk to us, and then we make sure that we make any changes that allow them to expand their route offer. Now I registered that the Workers' Party said they really didn't want us to land after midnight. If Onkøe says that's what's going to happen, I'll be for it, even if the Workers' Party here is against it. I also registered that the Arbeiderpartie said something about this “treasure” of the airline passenger fee. Yes, as a Progress Party politician, I don't like it, but what I find out is that the Workers' Party in its 2017 alternative state budget has maintained the air passenger fee. In the previous Question Time, the Workers' Party criticised that the air passenger charge exists, but in their budget they maintain it. Now I get the same criticism from the Labour Party in today's Question Time, even though they maintain the fee in their budget. There has to be a connection between the criticism you're giving others, and what you're actually doing yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1111	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In October, the government introduced 20 pst. discount on the monthly card for the NSB. But this does not apply in areas where there is tariff cooperation between the municipalities' collective societies and the NSB, as in Oslo/Akershus. This year, routes must pay the NSB approx. 190 million. kroner for monthly train tickets not to be more expensive than on bus, tram and T-Bahn. When the 20 pst discount on the NSB doesn't apply here, it becomes all the more expensive and difficult for Router to even out the prices and keep them low. Will the Council of State aim to introduce the NSB discount also in areas of tariff cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1120	Everything that costs money, we know, is a budget question. Now the budget is for treatment in Stortinget, and then I do not want to go into those negotiations. But we are aware of the desire of Oslo and Akershus. That's why we've had a process where we've involved both NSB and Router, to see what solutions exist on this. There are a lot of approaches you can have to see if you want to do another kind of cost-sharing — whether you want to have a bonus scheme where Router gets money when they deliver customers to the NSB, or similar. I'm open to discussing all kinds of solutions, and I hope that we can also find good solutions. What is important in this context is that one finds solutions that give equal treatment to Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and anywhere else where one can have that kind of cooperation – where one sees how railway and public society can work better in the future. My door is always open to discuss that kind of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1129	I would like to thank you for an answer that is open when it comes to creating non-discrimination, which is the important thing here. There was a look at the evening post.no this morning where it says that the NSB discount in Oslo disappeared in a “circuit error” and where the Left’s representative Abid Q. Raja says that you actually posted that it would be a discount for all areas, and that it would cost 67 million. kr. But then it turned out that it cost 167 million instead. kr, was chosen to introduce the discount in all areas where there is no tariff cooperation. First of all, is it true that this whole situation is due to a calculation error? And secondly, why did you choose not to spend that money in areas where it is most important to have a transition to public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1138	It wasn't a calculation error. It was all clear amounts from the government about how much the different things cost. So this was introduced as a result of the budgetary agreement between the civil parties on the Stortinget. I am pleased that the Labour Party is committed to something that they chose not to try to solve when they were in government, but on which the bourgeois parties have found a solution, namely to bring down the prices for those who have monthly cards. Compared to what a dealer bought, it was the limit that was natural to put in order to get the money to work, because to reduce the monthly card price by, for example, 3-4 pst. would have little effect on people's travel preferences. If you put it down 20 pst, you give a clear financial signal that you can change the behavior of people. Many of those who are in the queue in and out of Oslo, for example, aren't people who have two kilometers of travel; there are people who live outside the fare limit, but who today choose cars because trains are too expensive. When you live outside the tariff limit where there is cooperation between Router and NSB, and you take trains to Oslo, that means you have to buy the Router ticket separately. These people will now be able to save money. [[The President clubs.]] Those who are in charge of tariff cooperation already have a bonus...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1145	I also thank you for the additional reply. Now the Council of State is aware that there are many municipalities in Akershus where there are people who travel by train to Oslo, and where the route is several more than a few kilometres. It is very crucial for the level of pollution in Oslo as a big city that as much as possible travel by train, and this tariff cooperation between Router and NSB is very burdensome for the Ruter economy because they transfer an estimated 190 million. kr of the year to balance the prices. My question is: in the response to the revised budget this year, the Ministry answers that it is not so important to enter 20 pst. Discounts in tariff cooperation areas because you do not get a direct discount on ticket prices, while you get it when you do it elsewhere in the country. Doesn't the Council of State see that if one had invested these funds, it would be easier for Router to keep low prices and to be able to provide more justice to its customers – that not one group pays for the train passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1154	What I understand is that the representative is actually asking Bøhler if we can transfer 190 million. kr more to counties, so that they do not receive the income loss experienced by Router. That doesn't mean you get a lower fare for the travellers. That's what we have to discuss, what's really the purpose here. By reducing the monthly card rates for those who live a while away from Oslo, you make it more interesting for them to take trains than to drive a car. For those involved in tariff cooperation, an extra use of the monthly card on the NSB is made by having this transition to the Router system. This means that they already have a gain that those outside the tax zone don't have. That's why it's natural that when you start with this, you start with those that are on the outside of the area. It is very gratifying if the Labour Party in opposition has become for things that the bourgeois majority has begun to implement. As I said in the first answer, we're looking for solutions to this, but we have to make sure that we equalise all the actors, and we also have to ensure coordination between local and NSA ticket prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1166	‘On behalf of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, external quality assurance of the concept value agency for the logistics hub in the region of Bergens has been carried out. The mission is to ensure the professional quality of the decision-making basis. According to the Law on Public Health Section 5, state authorities shall assess impacts on the health of the population where relevant. Is it possible for the Council of State to consider whether public health consequences in the population have been assessed in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1173	It's one of the things that a person assesses -- naturally. The representative Toppe asked me a similar question in June, for a written answer. Then, among other things, I replied.\t\t You can change ‘The overarching objective of a new logistics hub in the Bergen region is to facilitate more environmentally friendly freight transport and the transport of goods from road to road. In isolation, the creation of a new freight terminal may have negative local land and environmental impacts. At the same time, the possible relocation of the terminal from Nygårdstangen will contribute to better urban environment and land development in the Bergen centre.» So a better situation somewhere, although it gets a little bit worse elsewhere, but that's the sum of society that's important. I went on to write: ‘The environmental and noise disadvantages of a freight terminal therefore need to be offset against the benefits of more efficient rail freight transport and reduced heavy road traffic give society overall. The purpose of the KVU process is to weigh all these considerations towards each other. Assessments of the conceptual solution and location of the future railway terminal and freight port of the Bergens region have been made in the logistical hub KVU in the Bergens region. The KVU has a conceptual approach and follows the methodology established by the Ministry of Finance.’ The geographical location of the terminal and infrastructure is determined in the KVU and is now quality-secured in the so-called KS1 process, but only at the overall level. I also wrote: ‘There are no specific assessments specifically related to public health in the KVU work. The railway system informs that several issues related to public health have nevertheless been assessed in different parts of the concept analysis. Under the unpriced effects, assessments of different concepts and localisation options have been made for their impact on the environment and outdoor life, including noise. Consequences for air pollution are also included as a central part of the assessment base.» These are direct and indirect public health issues. Finally, I wrote: ‘When the location of the logistical nodes changes to the next level phase, for example in the form of a municipal sub-plan, the theme of growth conditions, local communities, quality of life, well-being and health, as well as environmental and radiation, will be included in an impact assessment, which is a thorough breakdown set out as a legal requirement in the planning and building laws.’ The quality assurance of the KVU is now externally ensured, while a wide consultation of the investigation has been carried out. On the back of e.g. the recommendations of the Railway Agency, the external quality assurance and the consultation recordings will now be taken into consideration by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1200	When reading the KVU to the Railway Agency, it is not clear that public health has been assessed, nor does KS1 take a concrete position on public health in quality assurance. The fact that consequences for the health of the population were to be made clear also in the activities of state authorities is, of course, enshrined in law, and I can't see that it comes from the reports that are now the basis of the decision of the Council of State. The Hordnesskogen is ranked by the municipality of Bergen as an open-air area with an A-value and is used by a lot of people both for organized tours and for exercise tours. It is a group that is prioritised in the government’s own news of outdoor life as a source of health and quality of life. I assume that I don't have that much time, and my question is whether the Council of State can guarantee that the Department will evaluate the public health consequences of the choice of the location of freight terminal before the decision is taken, and that a knowledge base is better done for than in KS1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1207	I read in my answer that in the case of the unpriced effects, it is among other things. assessments of the impact of the different design and localisation options on the local environment, outdoor life and noise. Some of the examples of the representative Toppe now listed were important precisely because some of these were used as travel areas, etc. So I believe that it has been assessed in the KVU, but it has not been assessed as carefully as it is going to be when one goes on to the municipal sub-plan. For me, it's natural to look at the whole of the decisions we make. If you move a terminal, it will have benefits for someone, and where you move it to, it will have disadvantages for others. Then we have to look at whether the benefits to society in total compensate for the disadvantages to some, and then it will be the severity of the disadvantages that determine. It doesn't help if we say that the disadvantages affect only two people and the benefits benefit 1000, if the benefits for the 1000 are very small, while the disadvantages are almost life-threatening for the two that apply. We must ensure legal certainty, life and health in the decisions we are making, and that is the basis of my approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1214	The inconsistency is well whether to evaluate this carefully only in municipal plans, or whether the state also has a responsibility for carefully assessing public health consequences, which was the intention, I think, when we adopted the Volkehehelova in 2012. I have a follow-up question that goes on in the KS1 that calculations show that modernisation of the Nygårdstangen provides sufficient freight terminal capacity by 2040. Following the report, it is possible to postpone a decision on a new terminal for 10–15 years to the last half of the 2020s, and it can then be decided that according to the report, it is based on up-to-date knowledge and assessment of the need for a new terminal replacing the existing terminal, possibly a smaller terminal in addition to the existing terminal. The question is whether the Council of State will consider this as an alternative, i.e. not a decision will be made for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1221	Now that we've got different reports, we're going to evaluate all aspects of them, but I don't want to conclude now either way. I believe that the treatment of the national transport plan is a natural place to discuss this more thoroughly, and where the Stortinget is invited to join in and make a decision for the road ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1229	‘The draft new programme of the Programme Committee in the Progress Party proposes that the State should sell NSB AS. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1236	I don't think it's natural that I use my Council of State position and the Chair of the Stortinge to discuss program processes in the Progress Party. I also think any other party and any other government council would answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1241	The Minister for Transport will be present today, but he will not get anything more for it either. We see basically in his entire body language that he is not very satisfied with being present. I understand that the Minister for Transport cannot answer for the internal party processes – no one has asked for it either, we have all internal driving rules for how we deal with it – but the Minister for Transport is responsible for the transport policy in Norway, the Minister for Transport is responsible for the railway policy in Norway, and the Minister for Transport is responsible for exercising State ownership in the NSB. My question is, simply: does not the Minister for Transport have any idea whether the State should own the NSB, or whether the NSB should be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1250	Let me first make a point: I'm very happy to be in the Great Britain Question Time. There have been a lot of Wednesdays in the last few weeks – actually in the last few years – where I haven't got a single question, and where I really thought it was sad, because I had hoped that the opposition on the Stortinget would be more concerned with transport policy than what has happened. Today I'm lucky. Today, there are actually 13 questions I am going to answer – as the ketchup bottle finally opened up, it poured out to those degrees. But what I think is a little weird, is that one tries to angle a question to the programming process in the Progress Party. The second question that came from the representative Myrli now was completely different from the original question, for there he referred to the draft new batch programme, where a position is proposed. I agree with what the Programme Committee proposes, and I do not think this is the right forum to discuss it. The question is, will I privatize the NSB now? No, we haven't suggested we sell the NSB or privatize the NSB. But, as I answered the first question I got here today, we're going to bet crazy a lot on the railroad – more money, better organisation and better deals. It delivers this government, and I'm very proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1259	The NSB as a company is doing very well. Railway expansion in recent years has resulted in large passenger growth, combined with an increasing number of trains being purchased. More railway development and more trains provide more passengers and a better economic situation for the NSB. The NSB delivered a record result in 2015, and there are basically no professional arguments that it is now right to sell the NSB. The Minister of Transport does not respond – forget the entire programme committee in the Progress Party, forget the national meeting, but the Minister of Transport must have an idea of whether to own the NSB or whether to sell the State’s shares in the NSB. It must be possible for the Storting to expect the government and the Minister of Transport to have an opinion on it. So I ask again, will the Minister for Transport sell the shares in the NSB, or will the Minister for Transport keep the shares in the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1266	I hope the president heard that I answered that question last time, and said no, we have no plans to sell the NSB, but we have plans to bet a lot on the railway. Unlike the Workers' Party, which in its 2017 Alternative State Budget proposes to take dividends from the NSB, the government does not propose to do so because we want to strengthen the capital situation of the NSB, so that the NSB is even more competitive and can provide even better services in the future. Some reason why we are now experiencing this growth is that both the previous government began to raise investments, and that today's government has lifted them even more, but today's government has also made sure that we have started to maintain the railway at such a level that the decay is reduced instead of increasing. Those who stand on the platform waiting for the trains may not be so busy with the colour of the trains as to make the trains come when they are going to take a shell, make it comfortable for a person to have room, and would like to have data connection and mobile coverage on board, so that one can use his time for something reasonable. It's getting people more and more. Trains are more on track, in line with what they should, there are several departures and better comfort. Then I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1281	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On its blog 4 April 2013, the Council of State wrote about foreign tables: “FrP is concerned that energy resources will benefit the population through low, stable power prices. It will strengthen Norwegian industrial development and contribute to the well-being of the thousands of homes." Why has the Council of State changed its mind, and why does he now think that private foreign tables and other proposals for the sale of Norwegian infrastructure, which transfer profits to private ones, are a good solution for our country and the 'welfare of the thousands of homes'?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1290	What's the point of the question, I don't mean. I do not believe that we should transfer profits to private individuals and that we should privatise all of this. Now I see that the Workers' Party has a number of questions based on the wrong premise, to give the impression that we are now building the country, selling everything, scratching and biting, and not caring about us – when the fact is the opposite. This government is building the country. We invest more in infrastructure than ever before. We maintain the infrastructure where it passed under the red-green government – on the road, on the railways and on the coast. There is evidence that the decay doubled on the railway under the red-green government. We, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, have reduced it. Similarly, we build up under green energy. The rate of investment in the development of renewable energy, wind power and hydropower is twice as high now, in recent years, as under the red-green government – not because the projects finally matured, but because we have changed, for example. depreciation rules, and we've changed the green certificate scheme that makes it now profitable. The electricity price was in 2015 at the lowest it has been in many, many years. So the premise for the question is simply wrong. One of the important things is that we expand power grids – simply internally in the country – to avoid the current crises we experienced during the red-green government, when Mid Norway had sky-high power prices without being able to do any short-term or long-term measures. By expanding the network, you ensure that you have a levelling-off of electricity prices internally in Norway. One of the prerequisites for getting investment in renewable energy is that those investing know that they are able to sell the electricity. Then this is important with foreign tables. What's been important to me all along is what I wrote in my blog, that's what I mean today, and that's what the government thinks. It is that we must always ensure that we build a little more power than we build exchanges abroad, because then we will always ensure that the price level in Norway is favourable to establishing industry here, while at the same time selling any surplus power in times of very high rainfall or very much wind. At the same time, electricity is imported during the periods that are likely to be dry or windless in this country. We see that the effects of this is that the power prices in general are lower now than they were in the past, while at the same time you dare to invest twice as much as it has been usual. There are now projects for more than 5 TWh under construction. If you take what's happening on the Fosen, there's projects for 7 TWh. When you see that Norwegian hydropower is 120 to 130 TWh, we know what that means. It may irritate the Workers' Party that the policy we have now is actually successful, because the fact is different from what the Workers' Party is trying to give an impression of. Now we can invest in industry, now we can invest in power generation, and we can make money on both. The decision in the case of foreign tables for power is that regardless of who builds them, you have to make sure that the bonus income benefits the power customers, not the private capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1303	Thanks for the words – I almost have to say. I repeat what the Council of State has written on its blog on 4 April 2013: The Progress Party is therefore not critical to trading electricity with the rest of the world, but it is going to happen in a way that does not give Norwegian power customers higher power bills. A small month ago, the Stortinge allowed private construction and operation of foreign tables by decision, cf. Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth So it's like the former Statoil peak Hogne Hongset says that the power price will be doubled, he gets the support of researchers at NTNU, and Statkraft is also behind the statement that the power prices for most people now will be higher. Then I have to ask again: what has changed the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1312	Now I spent two or three minutes saying the opposite. The fact that the representative tongue didn't like my answer doesn't mean that it was just words. It was a very clear context. What's our argument is that we're going to expand both more production and more power lines. Making sure that the power we produce from our power resources benefits industry, business and households is our goal. I represent a party that, unlike the Workers' Party, has not talked about the power price having to rise because of climate and environmental considerations, because we believe that having access to ample and reasonable energy is a well-being of which this country and its inhabitants must benefit. That is why we have also said that industry should have more links with power generation so that they can defend investment in new production. What I also said in my first answer was that by building out more power, you get a larger profit. Then you can also defend the fact that you have more exchange both internally in the country and abroad, because you have a whole lot more profit than you had before. That's why it's not true when you say power cables themselves can give you a higher price. But in addition, increased power generation will counteract it to a greater extent than rising prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1319	The government's response merges into the pattern. Before the government was the Progress Party against fees, now is the Advance Party for fees. Before the Progress Party entered the government, you were against tolls, now you're for tolls. And before the Progress Party joined the government, you were against private foreign tables, so now you're in favour. I repeat what the council has written on its own blog, that this should happen in a way that does not give Norwegian power customers higher power bills. Now Norwegian power customers get a higher electricity bill through government policy. Will the Council of State complain to all the voters he has tricked with this statement on his blog?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1326	Making complete lines that don't take into account the answer you actually get, makes the debate a little pointless. I have pointed out that we have managed to increase the production of electricity – investments in the production of electricity. It makes you have a larger volume to take off. Selling some of the extra volume to operators abroad, while also importing electricity cheaper from abroad when they have overproduction, actually makes the market for Norwegian electricity customers better, not worse. Everything else like it – if you just build a power cable, but don't do anything about the production capacity, the representative Heavy is right. The representative, Mr. Tung, did not get along with this is that only in Norway now we have 7 TWh of new power coming into the market. It's more than you're going to exchange through a possible new cable. Let me just stress that the cable is not private in the form of greedy capitalists, it is publicly owned power company that wants to do this so that they can get any provision for power they are going to build up at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1334	This question, from Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1339	Here's the question: ‘How will the Council of State ensure that the pension conditions of the staff of Mantena are not weakened in the context of the rail reform and the current competitive outlook?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1346	For me, it's important that we have a good and efficient railway. We're also going to treat those who work there in a good and respectful way. We have been clear that we should not remove accrued-to-date pension rights in connection with this reform. I think that would be petty to them. In terms of all of the legal aspects, we've started a process with ESA to clarify the legal space, and that's something we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1353	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to start by asking the question when the Council of State expects the legal process to be completed, so that you can move on with this. Competition is taking place — in a few months these things will be clarified. To enter a competition, it is important to clarify things. State-owned companies, as Mantena is, are members of the State pension fund, and therefore it is not provided with money on a separate fund, as it would be for municipalities or for private companies, because the government covers current pension costs. It is estimated that the ordinary pension liabilities amount to 500 million. kr. If Mantena loses the competition, they have to put this money at their disposal. Therefore, can the Council of State here and now clarify that Mantena's pension obligations are fully covered by the State, whether they lose or win the tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1360	I think it is important to ensure a good framework around what is about pensions, we should not create uncertainty about it. That's exactly the job I'm trying to do. The size will be informed and involved as soon as we get the clarifications we need. I don't know exactly how to do it, but the intention of what I am communicating is that we should respect the rights that people have earned – something else I think would have been unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1365	It is good that the Council of State says what he says. It is tempting to say that when a privatisation process has been initiated here without having clarified so important legal issues, it gives the impression that one has moved too quickly, as Stortinget also pointed out during the treatment of the railway reform. But leave it. I have a concrete follow-up question in the end. Now the Council of State stated that his intention is to secure accrued-to-date pension rights. That's good. But then comes the question of the AFP scheme for people over 55 years of age. In fact, private pension schemes – which is what you go to if you lose a tender – require employees to be in the contract for seven years in order to earn pension entitlements up to 62 years. So that means that everyone over 55 will not be able to process this unless someone puts on the table the cost, and the cost of buying people over 55 years is estimated at 500 million. kr. Will the Council of State assure employees over 55 years of age that they are secured an AFP by competitive outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1372	My basic position is the same as the Progress Party had when we were in opposition and were skeptical of the red-green government's pension reform, which we thought weakened earned rights then. That's why we went against the pension reform that the red-green parties drummed through. My attitude is going to be the same, that pensions that are earned are actually what you're entitled to. That is my work hypothesis in this, and I intend to deliver on it. So I think it's wrong when the Workers' Party, SV and others give the impression that the railway reform is about privatisation. No, the railway reform is about offering better train services to those living in this country. There are commuters who go in and out of cities every day, there are goods and businesses that need to get their goods out, and we want to get them out of the highway and across the rails, because it increases road safety and reduces maintenance needs, etc. on the roads. This is why the rail reform has been primarily about getting more investment and maintenance of the infrastructure. So it's been about getting better organisation, gathering responsibility. And it's about those who are best suited to deliver the different services, getting the chance to do it. We've started with the first two. What we're discussing is how we organize the third part, and we're going to get that well in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1382	‘During the past weekends many faithful newspaper readers have had to look far after the Saturday editions they subscribe to after Kvikkas took over to deliver the Saturday post. Especially in the West and in North Norway, the problems have been great. For example, 500 of Firda’s subscribers lost the paper on 5 November. Back are readers without newspapers, and newspapers that receive a flow of complaints, payment claims and cancellations of subscriptions. What can the Council of State do to resolve this situation for the best of all parties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1389	I thank you for the question. I think this is important. We have been clear from the government – and the Stortinget from its side – that Saturday distribution of newspapers should be ensured, even if the Post has completed its postal distribution on Saturdays. The fact that the Post closed it was a natural consequence of people sending much fewer letters. Post volumes have decreased by over 50 pst. in a few years. The post is now saving 400 million. NOK not to distribute what is mostly advertising and other things, on Saturdays. But in order to compensate for the fact that you would also end with the Saturday paper distribution, we started several processes. We started a process where we talked to the media companies about where they have newspapers covering different regions. Where they had it under control, we said OK, it's already handled. Then we had to see how the newspaper distribution disappears as a result of the Post – because one does not have commercial newspaper offers. The commercial newspaper bids are largely run by a company called Helhomem, which is owned by Schibsted, Amedia and the like, so the papers have a lot of control over this themselves. One found out that approx. 15 pst. of Norway had no newspaper coverage when the Post stopped. Then we went into and defined those areas together with the industry, through consultations and through different processes, and put out a tender. The one who could give the best total package, won the bid, and it was Kvikkas. This happened in the summer, and we have afterwards experienced that the media companies themselves set up their project organisation to do so only in September, i.e. two months before it was due to come into force. Kvikkas received all the non-conformity messages, and we received deviation messages from the media companies, saying that one did not have newspaper messages there anyway, and that Kvikkas had to take over. Ten days before this was to come into force, we were told that the media companies apparently did not have their newspapers in place in Finnmark anyway. That's where Kvikkas had to take over. It has meant that in many places we have had to go in and do a bigger job than what we were initially told from the newspaper industry that they needed. It's been one of our challenges. Another of the challenges has been that Kvikkas has simply not delivered good enough newspaper offers some places, Sogn and Fjordane are one example. It has been extremely frustrating, not least for those who subscribe to the newspapers, but also for Kvikkas, for us and for the newspapers themselves, that one has not got out his product. Therefore, Kvikkas has had to do a job in his organization and say, where things work, they continue. Where things don't work, one has to do it again. There has also been a challenge in obtaining distributed newspapers in mailboxes. There we have a process going on, and I now have the impression that things are going to be okay, one just has to make the logistics chain hover in that area. In some places you have also had delays from the printers, e.g. in Harstad. When there are delays from the printing house, a difficult blame for Kvikkas is possible, because then one has a consequence. Kvikkas, Posten, the newspapers and the Ministry of Transport have settled down, and we have gone through the defined problems. The distribution was significantly better this Saturday than last Saturday, and I expect Kvikkas to deliver the product they have won to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1410	Several weeks have passed, and this is huge loss for the newspapers. Just to illustrate it: New Troms, which is a three-day newspaper, has now gone from distributing Saturday newspapers to sending her out on Friday, for one is not sure to get her out on Saturday. The wallpaper just gets so big. We're getting reports that there's newspaper booth on the go with alphabetical lists of subscribers. – It happened on Saturday, they didn’t know where they were or where they were going, and had to get help from the locals to get around. This is pretty far into this period. The background here is that the Post complained about the decision that Kvikkas should get this, because one thought that the ministry didn't realize the complexity of taking on such a big task. What good is it that the Council of States comes up with new thoughts and reviews whether Kvikkas is capable of carrying out this task?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1419	The statistics we got showed that the first Saturday you had a delivery quality for the whole country that was about 84 pst. Two weeks later, the delivery quality is above 95 pst. It shows that they have managed to grasp many things, although there are newspaper areas where it still doesn't work well enough. Fourth is one of those examples. Fourth had 600 complaints last weekend – they had 300 complaints this weekend. There are 300 complaints for many, but there is still one development that shows that things have been handled. Avisa Valdres felt it was a disaster for the first two weekends. Then they sat down and worked with Kvikkas, and my experience and what I've got preliminary feedback on is that it works a lot better now. That is why a job has to be done. That job should have done both Kvikkas and the media companies before. But we see here that there have been grey areas in terms of where the newspapers were going to deliver. When you arrive ten days before this comes into force and say that you do not have a bid in Finnmark anyway, and that this has to be done by Kvikkas, it says a little about many people who have not been well enough prepared. Unfortunately, the newspaper customers are suffering from it, and I am deeply sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1426	I have read the offer criteria set by the ministry, and they are extremely important that one should have a full overview of the complexity, the ability to deliver, etc. It's underlined at once. So the situation shows that one at all has not been in the vicinity of being able to take on such a big job. It's not just the Fourth. The editor of Avisa Valdres, Ivar Brynildsen, said in frustration on Facebook recently: ‘No single decision has hit Norwegian paper newspapers harder than the Solvik-Olsen took to assign Kvikkas AS the job of distributing Saturday newspapers.’ It's serious for the newspapers, but Saturday newspaper is one of the most important documents that people get, and having it in its physical form, sitting down in the sofa with the coffee cup and letting the weekend sink is important to people. But all of a sudden, what's left here is that instead of breaking a monopolist, one of the people has a draw on Saturday's newspaper. What will the Council of State do in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1438	As I said, we've already started a lot of processes, because I'm not satisfied when someone who has won a job doesn't deliver it to you. The mission is that one should get approx. One hundred million. kr to distribute the Saturday papers by 1 p.m. 17 on Saturday. When one does not, I am obviously not satisfied, because I am not spending the taxpayers' money buying a service that is not delivered. It says itself, and then we're going to follow this up. That's why we've had a lot of laps with Kvikkas, the media companies and others to figure out where the problems are. But the problems are different in different places. In some places the problem is that the papers do not arrive at Kvikkas. Then it's not Kvikka's fault, then there's something in the logistics chain before. Then we have to see what we can do to fix it. Elsewhere, the bids have not been well prepared. If you can't do your job, someone else will do it, and it'll solve Kvikkas. Elsewhere there's a grey zone between what Kvikkas is going to do and what Helhomem is going to do. At the latest today, I talked to an editor who said that the 650 newspapers that Kvikkas has in their region think he's going to be okay. I am more uncertain about what Hel home has, which the state is not involved in, but which the media companies themselves have. That's why we have to go into every problem and see how we solve it, and I'll take that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1447	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1455	This question, from the representative of Eirik Sivertsen to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1460	«The government requests the continuation of powers to sell state shares, in order to reduce ownership «where there are no specific reasons for the country’s ownership». Good and predictable revenue to the treasury is obviously not enough. In relation to this, Stordalen has expressed a wish to sell in public companies: «I am a capitalist, but do not understand the commercial logic». Why is it logical to liquidate the ownership of companies that provide good income to the community, and is this money needed in the oil fund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1467	The government is working to facilitate diversity and value-creating ownership and to strengthen private ownership. Private ownership is the main rule in Norwegian business. Although the country is a very large owner in Norway, state ownership has to be justified separately. The central task of the state towards business is to facilitate high value creation through stable and good framework conditions. When the state has the role of both owner and regulator, this could potentially weaken the legitimacy of the state in both roles. Therefore, the State should not own companies unless there are good reasons for doing so. Nor should we have the long-term ambition to be the owner of companies where the State has only business objectives of ownership. It is the government's view that over time other owners will often be in better condition than the state to develop the values of such companies. In view of this, the Government has been authorised by the Stortinget to dispose, in whole or in part, of the ownership of some companies by the State. I have also noticed that the productivity commission is in favour of the government's wish to reduce the extent of the country's ownership. At the same time, we have been clear that any change in the country's assets is only implemented if this is considered to be economically beneficial to the country. We're not in a hurry. I also remember that the government in the ownership announcement states that the state will remain a significant owner in Norwegian business even in the future. So for most companies, we didn't want permission to make changes. Any reductions in the country’s ownership of shares in the sale of shares give rise to revenues reflecting expected future dividends. Therefore, sales do not mean loss of income, but greater revenue on sale over any future dividend payments. The representative seems to base his question on the fact that the State only owns profit-making companies. That's not the basis of our ownership policy. We own companies that have profits, but also companies that don't, because the purpose of ownership is different than just plus on the bottom line. For example, the Great Norwegian on Svalbard, which we own for reasons other than the economics, and where we have increased our ownership to 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1480	I thank you for your answer. Governments are committed to including other companies here. But what is a fact is that the government is committed to selling companies that produce profits – which generate income. The Council of State budgets itself with revenue in its budget of 12.5 billion. kr for next year. That's good income to the community. It should also be a reason for the state to have ownership. Where the state exercises good ownership, where the state actually makes money, it contributes to the community and to the financing of our common property. If you own a debt-free house and you have a lot of money in the bank, why sell this house, which will give you some new money that you can put in the bank to invest in other companies, instead of having long-term future revenues, which can help finance the common resources that many people in this country are occupied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1485	I don't think I'm following the representative's reasoning. The representative seems to believe that the purpose of the country’s ownership should be the bottom line alone. I don't mean that. We own companies that go with the plus, and we own companies that go with the minus. So it's a different purpose than just business. The representative seems to think that a sale is negative in cash, while ownership is positive. It's not like that either. It is that a sum of sales will reflect future dividends. So it's about which companies the state should own, and in which we shouldn't own. If the representative’s reasoning was correct, the State of Norway should own all privately owned companies in Norway that made profits, because it gave revenues to the State Treasury. Of course, we do not – fortunately not – even though the state of Norway is one of the largest owners in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1492	There are many mistakes in the premise for the answer from the Council of State as well. Now I have not said that the state should own all the companies in Norway or only own companies with profits. What I've been problematizing is why on death and life we're going to sell these companies. Now we have just heard a colleague of the Council of State standing on the pulpit and talking about us investing in industry. What this council says is to sell out Norwegian industry. For example, Telenor, which has been an important technology company, is being sold out. Now we are talking about selling down holdings in the Kongsberg Group, an industrial locomotive in Norway that has contributed to significant value creation. What I don't understand is what makes the state such a much worse owner than all the others. Because we have a number of companies that just show that you can go with profits, have innovation and innovation, contribute to safe Norwegian jobs and at the same time make money. Why is it so ideological that the state should also be able to make money that can benefit the community, where the state has good assumptions such as long-term and capitalist ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1497	Once again, I think you have to keep track of what's going on. This government is not to sell on death and life. We've been sitting on a number of mandates. I have been the Council of State for this responsibility for over three years now. If you look at the list of sales we have made, compared to the previous government, I am afraid that the volume is less than larger. The government that sold out most of the state's shares was the Stoltenberg I government. This happens as the changes take place in society. I am concerned about highlighting the private ownership. Private owners have a completely different and more active role in ownership than the country can have for natural reasons. But the state is going to be a big owner also in the future, just because we have tradition of it, and because there are also good reasons why the state should be owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1507	‘In the announcement of ownership, the government asked for power of sale in the Kongsberg Group, but received no because the Stortinget considered defence policy issues and any related regulations had to be further investigated. The Royal Mountain Society is based on state companies that have played a major role in bud shooting and new industries. Governments have had to say after Stortinget’s no that sales are not at present. It's elections in 2017. Will the Council of State, which is the Right-Chairman in the field, once again go for a sale in the next period, and with what justification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1514	The aim of state ownership in the Kongsberg Group is to maintain a knowledge-based and high-tech industrial group with head offices in Norway. The company forms a central part of the industrial cluster on Kongsberg. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis and with a view to providing a competitive return. Because it is important to maintain the head office and jobs in Norway, the government of the ownership notification was clear that the country should still be a large owner in the Kongsberg Group. However, in order to achieve the objectives of the State with its ownership, it is sufficient to have a holding of 34 pst. In order to meet any industrial opportunities that the Kongsberg Group itself considers to be constructive, we therefore asked for an authorisation to reduce the state's ownership down to 34 p.m. Therefore, these were not shares to be offered for sale, but were prepared for any changes that the company itself found interesting. The size wanted to await such an authorisation. Of course, it takes notice of the government. We also live very well with it. Should a situation arise as I have described, there will be a case for Stortinget. So my view of this is the same as it was in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1523	I thank you for your answer. I would like to remind you that before the 2013 election, the Workers' Party warned against selling in, among other things. Kongsberg Gruppe, and then the Buskerud representative of the Progress Party Morten Wold and Ketil Solvik-Olsen said that «State sales to companies such as Kongsberg Group are no longer current policies for Frp». [[...]] And the Right's current parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, followed up with the fact that 'this is not something to be solved as soon as the Right has hung off the coat in the government offices'. So that's how much those promises were worth – we saw that when the ownership message came. The title ‘Various and Valuable Ownership’ must be the most misleading title of a paper in our time. I record that the government will now only undertake that it has pressed the Pause button, and then I will actually reform my question: Can people in Kongsberg now expect that sales are not only out of date now, but that it will remain out of date as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1530	I'll be a little bit in doubt if I have to repeat my answer. So it was not the government's intention to put the Kongsberg shares out for sale on the market just to sell. It was our wish to be ready if a situation arose that was right for the Kongsberg Group. So this is a changing industry. We have to decide on those changes. Now the Storting didn't want it. We're dealing with that. My view is the same: if the Kongsberg Group comes to the government with proposals that they think are reasonable, we should of course assess them, and then we will also assess whether a case should be brought before the Stortinget. And then I think it's okay that I answer for myself and not for representatives from other parties or for big business representatives. I think we both deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1535	I basically reformed my question on the basis of what is the decision of the Storting, by which I thought the government was obliged. But the government itself says that the Kongsberg Group is an international group that delivers high-tech systems and solutions in the offshore, oil and gas industries, the merchant fleet, defence and space. Nevertheless, the sole objective of government ownership was to maintain its head office in Norway and deliver returns to the Treasury — not a word about the importance of defence competence and national security. It had forgotten the government, and was emphatically put in place by a total magnification. There was not a single thought about how the state as the largest owner can actively contribute to facilitating the necessary transition for the future, as the Labour Party will. And then my last question is: does the government not appreciate how important it is to secure stable frameworks around these types of industrial locomotives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1540	Well, the government understands that, and such assessments would of course be made. But I think the representative might have to follow up a little bit. In fact, the state's ownership of the Kongsberg Group has risen under this government, simply because the Kongsberg Group has bought up in Patria, which is a cooperation between Norway and Finland. So in the arms field, the state of Norway now owns more than when this government joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1548	«By virtue of its ownership positions in Telenor, the State receives large incomes to the Community each year. Next year, it will be budgeted for over 6 billion. kr in dividends from the company. Nevertheless, the government believes that the ownership of Telenor should be reduced, inter alia: to ensure the spread of power. The Labour Party believes that we need good reasons to sell the community's resources, especially in a company as strategically important as Telenor. Can the Council of State explain why she is so concerned about getting rid of the state's holdings in companies such as Telenor?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1555	The objective of state ownership in Telenor, as shown in the ownership notification, is to maintain a knowledge-based and high-tech group with head offices in Norway. That means that a holding of 34 pst. is sufficient to achieve that objective. The government was empowered to reduce its ownership interest in the event of a situation in which the company saw the commercial and important part of value-generating transactions. I underlined in the ownership debate when – I repeat it now – these were not shares that would be lightened in the market, and the government was busy selling to sell. As you know, there have not been any changes on the owner's side of Telenor, simply because there has not been a situation that I have described. It was supposed to confirm that the government did not sell on death and life, we do not sell the garage, and we are not busy selling Norway. Then there is the basis of the representative's reasoning an idea that there are companies with plus on the bottom line that it is important for the government to own. I totally disagree. There are many good reasons why the state should own companies in Norway, whether they have a plus or a minus on the bottom line. So in the case of Telenor, we've been clear that we're going to be a big owner in the future, and even if we have a mandate, it still hasn't been used.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1574	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. So you've asked for an authorization to sell off from 54 pst. to 34 pst. and said no to any purchase. Telenor also said in the hearing when we dealt with the big shot, that it could be as natural to do it as to sell out. In the 2017 budget, 6 billion are taken out. SEK for dividends. There is money that we can spend for different purposes in the state budget. The government has taken a big sip of the honey pot, the oil fund. So you've spent 100 billion. kr more than us since 2013, and if you continue to use the oil fund, it will be empty by 2043. So there's less and less income and more and more problems to solve. Is the sales revenue of the Council of State at all reflected from an economic perspective? And: is there less income that is the motivation for such a sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1583	Once again – the only zeal I find in these matters is that of the opposition of the Storting. So I have several powers that have not been used at all, simply because there has not been a situation where this has been important for the company. That's the situation for Telenor, and that's the situation for several other companies, so we're assessing this based on what's right for the company, and what's right for the state. I totally disagree that a sale means loss in the treasury, while ownership means plus. It's not like that. This depends on the different companies, and companies that make profits will also be reflected in the price we get for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1590	When I hear the Council of State now, I think 6 billion. So kr in dividends are not to be used. You should rather say no to the money you have. That's really new. I think 12.5 billion. kr, which you take in dividends, is going to be used for very good and important purposes. Saying no thanks to it, would at least be stupid. So I think it's strategic. State ownership plays an important role in these companies. There is an important engine in new jobs, in order to strengthen innovation and not least in the case of new technologies. Both the Telenor and the Kongsberg Group have been committed to establishing a top industrial centre, to which the Minister of Industry has also been in favour. I think it might be important to bring it with me and see that it's a priority, that there are technology drivers, that there are companies that get a lot of other actors to develop and to run big. Doesn't the Council of State see these advantages?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1597	Well, I definitely do, and that's why we're big owners, and we're going to stay big owners, both in the Kongsberg Group and in Telenor, as the representative said. I do not understand the reasoning about spending money. We take dividends from companies and we use them, of course. What was my point was that it is not that the state loses money by selling. In that case, the country actually receives a sales total that is well managed and with the highest possible return requirements. So there's no loss to sell, if you sell at the right price at the right place. But we fully agree that ownership in Telenor is important. That purpose is achieved by 34 pst. We have a warrant. It has not been used – it is at all that there are very few powers that have been used so far during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1607	This question, from the representative of Audun Otterstad to the Minister for Industry, will be raised by the representative Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1612	‘The Higher Programme Committee has unanimously entered in order to privatise Statkraft. Right Nikolai Astrup claims the privatisation of Statkraft will provide more predictable ownership management and dividend policy. According to Astrup, ownership is unpredictable today. Does the Council agree with its party trap that current ownership and dividend policy are unpredictable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1619	State power is a company that is often discussed around, and that's good. It is one of the largest and most important companies in which the country owns. The company has a very important role to play in managing our common Norwegian hydropower resources. It is Europe's largest renewable energy producer and has also developed a portfolio internationally. The notification of ownership sets out the objectives of the State with the ownership of State Kraft. The aim is to contribute to a profitable and responsible management of Norwegian natural resources. Furthermore, state ownership shall contribute to the maintenance of head office functions in Norway and to the development of Norwegian renewable energy competences, which may also be used to carry out profitable power projects internationally. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis with a view to delivering a competitive return. As you know, the government did not ask for any power to reduce State ownership. It's a point of view that stands firm, and that doesn't change the fact that parties on the Stortinget are working on their magnificence programs. As an owner, we are concerned about how the state's objectives of ownership can be best achieved. Predictability of the owner and company is an important element in this. As far as dividend policy is concerned, it will of course be based on the company’s performance and on the company’s plans and strategies and market conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1632	Thanks for the answer. After all, the government strengthens the capital of State power one year, and then withdraws it as part of the budgetary conciliation another year. To me, there is unpredictable dividend policy and unpredictable ownership. Now Statkraft is preparing the sale of shares in a number of sea wind projects: Sheringham Shoal, Dudgeon and Dogger Bank. Now we see the unfortunate consequences that the Right Party government has an unpredictable ownership of Statkraft. Does the Council of State think that the consequences we are now seeing are a result of good ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1641	It is true that the size of the budget agreement decided to reduce the dividend to State power, but it did so at a time when market conditions were also heavily altered and where the strategy of the company had to be re-evaluated anyway. It's enough to look at the results of Statkraft, which over the years have given very large dividends to the state, but which have not done so in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1646	Thank you again. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure the long-term sustainability of State power in order to develop further as a company in Norway and abroad. We find it natural that private individuals can invest together with State power in renewable energy. We in the Workers' Party are clear that we are not going to privatize Statkraft, and we have an overall and strategic approach to ownership. Rather, we will add capital to Statkraft and give long-term and predictable steering signals. Will the Council of State work to capitalise Statkraft and provide long-term and predictable steering signals rather than privatize?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1653	The premise for the question is wrong, because there is no choice between owning and privatizing. I have explained the government's policy. We did not ask for authorisation to reduce the state's ownership. That position is established. It's predictable, and State power is familiar with it. In terms of dividend policy, Statkraft has been allocated 5 billion. kr and has a liberal portfolio in order to make the investments that the Governor of Statekraft believes are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1663	‘In December 2015, the Committee on the Law of the Overwater Area presented its investigation, NOU 2015:16 Overwater in Cities and Towns – As a Problem and Resource. What is the status of the work on the proposals made in the investigation and can the government estimate when the case is submitted for consideration in the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1670	Climate change will increase rainfall in the coming years. In the last 100 years, rainfall has increased by about 20 percent, and the strongest increase has occurred in the last 30 years. Good flood management will be an important element in adapting to climate change. All sectors are responsible for climate adaptation in their ordinary work, and municipalities have a particularly important responsibility. The urban and urban waste water network may not be dimensioned to avoid all overwater. Therefore, it is necessary to facilitate the handling of the floods by other means, in order to avoid excessive damage. There is a need for measures outside the sewerage network – such as water mirrors, green roofs and other vegetation, opening streams and waterways, etc. The overwater committee delivered its recommendation in December 2015. They have done a solid job, and they have made several good proposals for changes, including: the sample shows that the water management challenges should be addressed locally and tailored to the challenges of each municipality. The committee proposes a package of instruments that will contribute together to achieving the objectives of preventing damage to buildings, infrastructure, health and the environment. The report has been at public consultation. It was until May this year. So we've got an even wider picture and more views to take with us. The process of evaluating and implementing changes in laws and regulations is now in its initial phase. The work is extensive and involves several departments and underlying agencies. I give very high priority to the work, but it is too early to say when the current changes will be promoted for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1681	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned about the topic and will give priority to it. I hope it gives results, because, as the Council of State said, this is an increasing challenge. The centre party agrees that one must have a combination of sewerage improvements and infiltration in ground and green facilities in order to get the surface water to the stream and river without damage as quickly as possible. However, there are some instruments that need to be implemented on a national basis, not least under the Law on Planning and Building. A topic in which is a sectoral law for water and sewerage services, a sectoral law that regulates the relationship between municipalities such as landowners and service providers and their subscribers. Will this work be part of what the Council of State has now presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1688	The question of a separate sectoral law will be considered in the context of this work. It is important to follow up on the part of the Ministry of Climate and Environment in cooperation with other departments concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1693	This is work that will cost a lot of money. It will cost a lot of money both for municipalities and for the inhabitants who are subscribers to the municipal water and sewerage systems. It is proposed by the sample that the necessary overwater costs be segregated as a separate charging area in the future. Is there anything the Council of State wants to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1698	The selection has primarily assessed the need for changes in the framework conditions for municipalities. These costs are primarily related to the implementation of measures. It is clear that in all the assessments we are now making about the follow-up of the sample, costs are a central question. But it's not just costs of doing things, it's costs even if you don't do anything. The sample indicates that if nothing is done, it will cost society 45 billion to 100 billion. kr for the next 40 years. For that amount, very many measures can be implemented. We also need to remember that municipalities are working on good management of floods even today, and that is a consideration that is important in all planning already. I can also mention that we have recently established a dialogue forum for the largest cities and the government on climate, environment and urban development. At the first meeting of that forum, climate adaptation was a theme – a theme that is valuable for cities and states to cooperate and exchange experiences on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1708	This question, from the representative Martin Kolberg to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1713	It's true, as the president says, that this was a question that was asked the Minister for the Environment, and it's doubtful that I've accepted that they're switching. But since the Minister for the Environment is also present, I allow it to pass through and promote the following questions: ‘Villrein is now included in the list of globally endangered species. In the past, Bergensbanen was a significant barrier to the wild train, but the construction of the 11 km long Finnish tunnel caused the wild train from Norefjella to resume the use of grazing areas around Hardangerjøkulen. Can the Council of State explain how the experience of the use of the wild reindeer by the areas released after the construction of the Finnish tunnel at Hardangervidda has been brought into the work of the East-West link?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1722	Taking care of the wilderness's habitat is important, and it was also a theme in Storting's Question Time two weeks ago, I think it was. So I'm glad the Storting shows this interest. In January 2015, the Road Administration presented an investigation into the links between the East and the West. The Road Administration recommended that two links be given priority as major road links between the East and the West. One is E134 over Haukeli, the other rv. 7, rv. 52 and E16, that connection there, over Hemsedal. For rv. 7 over the Hardanger range this priority meant that the Vegvesen did not recommend the extension of long tunnels over the Hardanger range. However, it was considered that it would be relevant if smaller and local measures were taken to ensure, inter alia, that: Travel life and wild fauna. The state Road Service referred to its ongoing work on a KVU for Rv. 7 over the Hardanger range. Working with the KVU for rv. 7 on the Hardanger range, the challenges for the Hardanger range were addressed in detail. One starting point for this work was that the wild train travels all over the Hardanger range, but that the highway connection across the mountain is a barrier to the wild train, which especially winter time can become a serious problem. The road system concluded that a shorter tunnel, the Tieranut tunnel, would be able to solve the problem of wild rain in a satisfactory way. Based on this and the analyses in the East-West investigation, Vegvesenet recommended a concept with an extension of the Tieranut tunnel of about 6 km. In December 2015, the government decided to give priority to E134 over Haukeli as one of the major road links between the East and the West. To analyse whether to cross Hardangervidda or Hemsedal, Vegvesenet was assigned to create a KVU for the Gol-Voss route. At the same time, the Government did not decide to implement the KS1 for the KVU for Rv. 7 over the Hardanger range. In the KUV for Rv. 7 and Rv. 52 Gol–Voss, which was presented on 1 September 2016, Vegvesenet still recommends that rv. 52 over Hemsedal becomes the second major route between East and West. The road service was not then specifically asked to look at the wild train in that KVU, but then referred one to the KVU for Rv. 7 over the Hardanger range, i.e. continued to believe that the development of the Tieranut tunnel would be sufficient to resolve the problem of wild-cleaning. Now both the KS1 and the CVU for Gol-Voss are ongoing. Once these processes have been completed, the government will conclude. This will be part of the government’s work on the National Transport Plan Report 2018-2029. The consideration of the wild train and its movement over Hardangervida will be part of the government’s assessment of the choice of strategy for the development of road links between the East and the West. We understand the Road Directorate so that they cannot explicitly say that they have assessed this against the experience of the railway. At the same time, they have assessed the current situation, and the effects of the railway are also included as part of the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1739	We all realize that these are very complicated contexts, and it's hard to deal with this challenge. But when I asked the question to the Environment Minister, who's sitting here, and I think he's listening to me now, it was because it's an independent responsibility for the government to take responsibility for the wild rain tribe in Norway. There we also have international obligations. The challenge we're going to face is, how are we going to do that? What is the background to my question is: Is it possible to build a long tunnel if rv. 7 won't be a tribal road? I don't think so. And so we're not going to meet the situation we have with the wild strain, because there's a cost that's very difficult to deal with, and when the Road Service says less, local measures, it's not satisfactory in any way. It's not going to solve the challenge we have with the wild reindeer strain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1744	Whether you solve it or not – I think it has to be something we get professional recommendations and professional assessments to decide. But if what the Working Party here says, you have to pre-conclusion that rv. 7 shall be a tribal road across the mountain, because that is the way the Workers' Party thinks one should get a long tunnel on, then I take note of it. Then I expect that it will also come as part of the recordings of the Workers' Party's people when they make these assessments. Because that means that one also picks away E16 and Rv. 52 in that context. I am concerned that we should listen to professionals, and then we should make the priority politicians have to do, and look at how much different things cost, what benefits and disadvantages of different things are, and then we make a complete decision on this in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1749	There is reason for a low-level discussion around this, and I would like to say that if we are to listen to professionals – that is why I asked the Minister for Environmental Protection – the advice of the professionals is quite unambiguous, unquestionably clear. It's just a tunnel that can solve the challenge we have with the wild reindeer tribe on Hardangervidda. Because if we don't do this, the way somehow will, of course, exist over the Hardanger range, and it will be a big challenge. I am not saying that this is a final choice of the root path for the Workers' Party in terms of which we are to choose, but I say that it should be an element that is given much greater weight than it has been done. Because I have no illusion that it is possible for Stortinget to grant all the money needed, if not Rv. 7 gets the status it has. We thus remain standing where we stand, namely that we are not able to fulfil our obligations regarding the wild reindeer stock at Hardangervidda, and that is what is my primary concern in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1754	Then I take note that the Workers' Party believes that in order to protect the wild rein trunk, a choice must be made. 7 to build the long tunnel. This is a clear position from the Labour Party that we are taking into account in that debate. I am concerned that if the Road Administration and others believe that they can also take care of the elements of a shorter tunnel, I should also pay attention to it. What we end up with, that remains to be seen. But it will be so that one will never have the money to do all the things you want. Therefore, a priority must be given to different purposes. The wild rain is one of the many elements we're going to focus heavily on. What priorities the government is making comes in the national transport plan, and then I find that the Workers' Party is signaling that they have already done their priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1762	‘The world is in the middle of the sixth mass extinction of species. If development does not reverse, 2/3 of the world's populations of animals, birds, fish and reptiles will be gone by 2020. The main reason for this development is that areas are broken down and divided. What has the Council of State done to prevent areas in Norway from being built down bit by bit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1769	It is true, as the representative Rasmus Hansson points out, that the world is facing major challenges in the field of biodiversity conservation. Fortunately, the situation of natural diversity in Norway is in many areas better than the global situation. However, we need to do what we can to address challenges and the necessary measures in Norway. We have done so in the nature diversity report, which has just been treated in Stortinget. The policy adopted at that time will help us to achieve national and international objectives for natural diversity and prevent species from disappearing from Norwegian nature. The Communication proposes the use of the instruments of territorial protection, priority nature and nature selection, as well as the Planning and Building Act and sectoral legislation for the conservation of species and natural habitats. We are now in the process of following up the message. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has published a circular earlier this year on the basis of the environmental management's opposition practices. The circular clarifies the climate and environmental considerations that the State considers to be taken into account in municipal spatial planning. The circular shall contribute to the identification and resolution of conflicts as early as possible in the planning process, through dialogue and cooperation between municipalities and environmental authorities. In line with the nature diversity message, we have also launched a pilot project to test municipal sub-plans as a tool to address natural diversity. Good, up-to-date and solid knowledge of nature is essential to ensure good planning and good and comprehensive solutions for both large and small projects and actions. In future, the government will strengthen work on the ecological base map. In order for nature to deliver important ecosystem services today and in the future, we need to ensure that ecosystems are in good ecological condition. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has set up an expert council on ecological status, which will propose a system to measure nature in good condition by 1 June 2017. The work of this Council of Experts will be the starting point for the government’s work on a holistic ecosystem-based management, as announced in the nature diversity communication. Nearly half of the endangered species in Norway are believed to be or have been adversely affected by forestry. Therefore, forest protection is a very effective measure for biodiversity management in Norway. About 3 pst. the productive forest is protected. The effort on forest protection shall be continued. The allocation of forest protection is a good indication of progress and action in the field of forest protection. In four years, the government and the cooperation parties have granted 1438 million. kr for forest protection, including the proposal for next year. By comparison, granted to the previous government nearly 1 300 million. kr in its eight years. So we, together with the cooperation parties, have more than doubled the commitment to forest protection, and the pace of work has increased accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1784	Thanks for the answer. The question that the representative of Kolberg raised here, that is, the previous question, was a good illustration of the problem: how we handle good ecological status for one of Norway's most important responsibilities, the wild rain, which is divided into about 25 subpopulations, which should have been one coherent population, and roads are one of the reasons why they are divided. Then we know that about half of Oslo's municipality – a similar area – is still being built every year in Norway, and that the government has abandoned the consideration of wild-earned nature in land management. Does the Council of State believe that this will contribute to more or less the decline of Norwegian nature in the years ahead towards 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1793	In individual cases, there are many different considerations that need to be weighed against each other. It is not only in the last three years, but in the last decades that social development has required the development of roads, residential areas and others, and it is clear that in some cases other important societal considerations outweigh the need for nature. But the work we are doing, not least with a more systematic approach to the monitoring of ecosystem services and to identify and clarify what is good ecological status, will provide us with a better basis for taking into account natural diversity. And in several planning cases, we have come to the conclusion that consideration of nature is so important that other measures cannot be approved. We have a number of examples of that from the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1798	Again: Thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State puts its finger on a crucial point, namely that it is still concluded that other considerations are more important than the preservation of nature. That is, of course, the reason why we get less and less by nature that we have decided at the same time that we should take care of. Then, in the budget proposal under discussion, the government has made a significant cut in the Directorate-General for the Environment's operating resources, leading to perhaps 30, up to 50, posts being cut off in a sector that thus gets more and more important tasks in the years to come. What is the environmental justification of the Council of State to weaken environmental management at a time like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1809	Let me first say that the cuts made in the budget of the Environment Directorate should not go beyond statutory or high priority tasks. It is not yet clear which areas will be affected, and the budget has not been adopted either. But we're going to put great emphasis on the leaders of the Storting in the priority of the device of the cut. So it's not that dramatic – you don't have to go back so many years in time for the budget to be below what it's going to be next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1817	‘The Government’s Green Competitiveness Expert Committee has delivered its opinion. Can the Government explain its measures to increase the profitability of the renewable carbon-based industry?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1824	It is right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that the Committee of Experts on Green Competitiveness recently delivered its report. That report will be an important starting point for the government to develop a green competitiveness strategy. The Norwegian economy must be transformed in the years to come. We're going to the low-emission society. If we are to succeed, we must not just cut emissions, we must also make sure that we get greener growth and greener, more profitable jobs. Norwegian business needs to be stimulated and Norwegian business needs to contribute. New, profitable jobs are to be created in companies that take us to the low-carbon society. Part of the transition is to replace products and energy based on fossil resources with alternatives based on renewable biological resources. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the use of biological resources takes place in a sustainable and profitable way. As we know, we have several instruments in Norwegian climate policy. The CO 2 tax and participation in the EU ETS is very important because it sets a price for greenhouse gas emissions. Climate taxes and other elements of policies promoting low-emission solutions contribute to increasing the profitability and strengthening the competitive situation of the industry based on renewable biological resources. In the 2017 budget, we have proposed that environmentally justified charges should be increased by nearly 1.6 billion. kr, e.g. through increased taxes on the use of fossil fuels. The government is also focusing on the development of new technologies to cut emissions and create more green jobs. Both energy and climate research have been prioritised in recent years. We have strengthened Enova significantly in addition to the climate agreement. In addition, we have instruments that specifically promote products based on biomass. One example is sales requirements for biofuels for road traffic. Today, the placing on the market requirement is met mainly by the sale of imported biofuels based on food crops. The effort we are now making to step up the sales requirement is aimed at increasing the use of advanced biofuels, because it provides a safer both global and national climate impact than is the case today. The use of advanced biofuels can also be beneficial for Norwegian industry, as the production of advanced biofuels can be based to a greater extent on Norwegian raw materials. I also note that the forestry industry wanted to welcome our escalation plan. In the 2017 budget, we also propose 50 million. SEK 20 million for bioeconomy-related research. kr to the biogas plant pilot scheme, and in 2016 the Research Council granted support to eight new research centres for environmentally friendly energy, including a centre for sustainable fuels and energy from biomass. We have also implemented several measures by the government to increase CO 2 capture in forests. Let me also mention the message about the forest and wood industries, where the main objective is to contribute to increased value creation from the forest and competitive value chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1851	I thank you for your answer. The problem with the green shift, however, is that there is too much precision in what we are talking about. And when the level of precision is weak, the results are also going to be weak. What's at the heart of the green shift is that one has to use less fossil carbon, that is less oil, gas, and coal. People need significant amounts of carbon, and they have to come from what the Council of State said, namely renewable biological resources. So we're talking about a language that was previously called the bet-on-the-prime. Primary industries are responsible for the production of the renewable biological resources. However, the problem for this industry, which is linked to renewable biological resources, is that profitability is so miserable that young people do not enter those professions. So it has to be a radical change in profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1860	I agree that we need profitability. There are many good ideas about places in public budgets and getting public transfers. But what we need, not least when the oil is no longer to be the driving force of the Norwegian economy, are industries that can stand on their own feet and contribute to the revenue side of the budget. We need more profitable green jobs, and then it is important that we not only think about sectoral instruments, but also that we have a tax system that attracts investment to those who want to invest, attracts investment to green entrepreneurs, which helps us to have private Norwegian ownership. Therefore, the Committee of Experts on Green Competitiveness has also pointed out that property taxes, option taxation and other general issues are also relevant in the green shift. So I agree that the level of precision is not necessarily high in the discussion about the green shift, but that's because we're going into a future where not everything is known. The future will not be like the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1867	What is known is that there is a difference between renewable carbon and non-renewable carbon. It's very familiar, and we need to have a very precise view of that. I am not asking for transfers, I am asking for what is called competing conditions in shipping. One must have competitive conditions so that young people choose the renewable industries. However, we have major problems. On 14 November, the Green Competitiveness Secretariat, Per Robert Sandberg, said to the Nations that emissions should determine support for agriculture: ‘It is unfortunate that productions that emit the most greenhouse gases receive the most agricultural support.’ It shows a frightening lack of biological knowledge, I would say. A short question: Is it really that the government and the council believe that, for example, a cow is less climate friendly than a pig – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1883	It is such that the greenhouse gas emissions from a cow are higher than the greenhouse gas emissions from a pig. Then we can draw different consequences from that, but the thing is we're going to cut emissions in Norway, until 2030. We are going to enter into a completely new regime in Norwegian climate policy, where we cannot take the bulk of the cuts through global market mechanisms. We have to do a job at home. Then there are two sectors that point to the work to be done in the non-quota sector. It's transport, and it's agriculture. There are the maximum emissions in the non-quota sector. My view is that action needs to be taken in both sectors. And the less you do in one, the more you have to do in the other. And then, with political processes, we still have to figure out how much we can take in the different sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1888	Question 19 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1897	This question, from the representative Per Rune Henriksen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1902	‘The Vice-Critical Party Vice-Chairman Ketil Solvik-Olsen promised before the 2013 elections that electricity customers would not have to pay for power trading abroad, and stated: ‘FrP is therefore not critical to trading electricity with the rest of the world, but it should be done in a way that does not give Norwegian electricity customers higher electricity billing.’ How will the State Council ensure that new privately owned foreign tables will not lead to higher network rentals for Norwegian electricity customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1909	It is convenient that as a State Council, I have the opportunity to respond to what the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party promised before the 2013 elections. The reason we made that promise was that we had seen eight years of red-green government where new investments in power generation were too much lacking, at the same time as a planned foreign table. It is not new that one connects Norway with the rest of the world, it was also something the previous government wanted. However, if this had resulted in an increased exchange of power without increased production in Norway, it would contribute to higher prices, anything else similar. And that's where it was so important for me as Vice President of the Progress Party to make visible that we believe that the natural resource we use to produce electricity is going to benefit the population and Norwegian business life, and not just be a commodity to the rest of the world. That's why we've made changes after we got into government. We have made sure that the framework conditions for building new hydropower and new wind power have become more favourable, precisely in order to regain power in the market. Now we see that what's under construction and close to here is almost 7 TWh new power generation. By comparison, the existing hydropower is around 120-130 TWh. So it's a pretty formidable investment that's now going on, much higher than the average over the last 25 years. In this picture, we see a balance: how much new does it enter the market — and, in addition, in the other Nordic countries? How much does the capacity for exchange of power increase? Then my image is that even if one exchanges more power with the rest of the world, the production capacity in Norway has become so much higher that Norwegian power customers will benefit. We see that in 2015 we had the lowest electricity prices since the 2000s, really. This shows that contrary to what we saw quite a number of winters in the last government, where one had a power crisis and sky-high prices, and where business was uncertain about what to invest in – they were not allowed to expand a lot of hydropower, and the mobile gas power plants did not get concession for very long – we have made sure that we have made changes to the depreciation rules for green certificates and the like, which means that we get more of the investments in the green certificate market to Norway, instead, as before, to Sweden. We thereby strengthen the balance that was the starting point for what I said. We have also made changes to make it easier for industry to use the power they own right into their own production instead of going through the market, which was the consequence of the changes adopted by the previous government early in its period. As a result, some of the major industrial players in Norway say that they can now in another way count on large industrial investments, because they have greater control over hydropower as an input factor. The sum of what we're doing is we're getting greater value creation for Norwegian natural resources. We'll keep the power prices lower. This means that Norwegian households get a little more in their wallet, they may have a little more well-being, but it also means that it is a little more interesting for the industry to invest. By having an exchange, you can also make sure that those who are going to invest in force see that we have a market that makes it attractive to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1922	As a long-standing member of the political elite of the Progress Party, the Council of State has obviously learned the value of non-talk. For here it is not about power generation, it is about transmission costs and the effects of private ownership and operation of foreign tables, which gives a large, empty hole in the regulation of income. There, the government has made — and brought with it the bulk of the population — a change in the law that allows individuals to own and operate foreign tables, but nothing has been said about how to regulate income. Today, Statnet owns and operates these cables, and revenues are used to reduce network rental. The question is therefore: what will the Council of State do to ensure that new privately owned foreign tables will not lead to higher network rentals for Norwegian electricity customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1927	Now I have shown how this will not lead to higher power prices. I thought the representative Henriksen, who has worked a lot with the Energy and Environment Committee, had also taken the rest of the decisions he referred to. Yes, it is true that we have also said private actors, read in this context the county owned power company, because that is what we are talking about. These are not foreign, greedy capitalists; these are companies like Lights and others, who have been the great actors. Because they see that they need to invest in new power generation, they also want to be sure that one has a market balance that makes them do this, and then exchange cables are part of what they think. What the Storting has said is that one should continue with the same concession treatment as before, which means that the authorities will be able to control the balance of this. The requirement for socio-economic profitability will continue to apply, taking into account both producers and consumers. The size has also said that any extraordinary revenue will fall to the community. And that's exactly how Statnet works. What they serve on the exchange is going to reduce the network path.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1936	Firstly, the decision does not distinguish between public electricity companies and not between public electricity companies. It is said briefly that it is no longer a condition that it is Statnett that is to stand as owner, i.e. that anyone can come in. On the contrary, with the distinction we are going to have today between the production and distribution of power, it is rather doubtful whether power companies will be granted a concession on this type of activity. That's the one. The second is the profitability, in which it is said that these extraordinary revenues will benefit the community. Councillor Lien said here in the debate that one way to do it is to introduce some kind of tax on the revenue from this cable. Now I do not share the belief of the Party Councils in taxation as a solution to a problem. Because here it's about the power customers, the grid rental customers, not getting part of the super-profit that's in those cables, if you take it over the tax bill, instead, like today, that it's going to pay the costs of the back-end network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1943	It will still be the case that you have to have concession treatment in order to be allowed to build anything, whether it is Statnett, or whether it is county power companies. It won't go away. That gives the representative Henriksen the impression, and that's not right. Concession treatment will be at the bottom. Then there will be a demand for socio-economic profitability, where one will take into account both consumers and producers, the whole package, as part of this. It doesn't change either. There, Statnett is treated like everyone else. Challenges are created for which there is actually no basis, given that the rest of the system exists. Then one also says that the costs of construction should not be charged to the power customers, and that is also a wrong impression created by the Workers' Party. The size has said, and I fully agree, that any extraordinary income should fall to the community. It doesn't mean through an extra tax, but it's just like Statnett today: what they're making on this is part of what helps to keep the network down. What's important here is to facilitate that we can produce more power, use the power in the industry and get low power prices, and that's where we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1957	This question, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is also answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1962	My question, as the President says, was addressed to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The Right Party and the Advance Party are still in the forefront of selling and privatising Norwegian natural resources. Regularly, there are proposals for the removal of the right to fall back and the sale of hydropower. The right-hand programme proposal will partially privatise Statkraft. The draft Progress Party programme states: «At the same time, we have no objections to private ownership of power plants/power companies when appropriate». Why is it so important for the Right and Advance Party to privatise and sell Norwegian hydropower resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1971	Today we have had quite a few questions where the Workers' Party takes a sentence from here and a sentence from there and puts it into a completely different context, and then asks the government why we are so bad and we are going to sell Norway, sell the natural resources. That's not right. I can't talk on behalf of the Right about how Right thinks, but I've recorded that Gunnar Gundersen and Nikolai Astrup have said that what the Right proposes is not to sell the hydropower resources, but that when Statkraft e.g. For example, it is not Norwegian natural resources that you are talking about. to build wind turbines abroad, and why should a state company do so? That part thinks Right that private would like to be with and own, instead of the state doing it all by itself. But the right was very clear in a recent chronicle – I think it was in Dagbladet – where they said that in terms of hydropower, it should not be privatised. That that kind of question is addressed in Stortinget, when the Right has rejected that this is how it should be interpreted, I think it is strange. So to what is in the draft programme of the Progress Party. First of all, it's a draft, but I recognize the sentence, because it's also in today's program -- pretty similar. But what's pointed out there is that the natural resources are the property of the community. It randomly forgets to record the Workers' Party. We are very clear that the natural resources are something we jointly manage, we have tax rights, concession rights and the whole package. But what we're saying is that instead of doing it the way the red-greens manage it, we have to make sure that it also benefits the industry. The previous government took away some of the power that industry had over the hydropower that they had owned for many generations. That's what we want to bring back, not to sell so that private foreign capitalists take it out of the country, but to make sure that Hydro, for example. have greater control of its inputs. It is this sentence: ‘At the same time, we have no counter-conceptions about private ownership of power plants/power companies when appropriate’. If it is to ensure that Hydro has access to power at its aluminium plants, it is appropriate, but not if it is to be sold to foreign investors only to make money on it. This borderline is very clear from the Progress Party. It's also very clear in what I see on the right hand writing. But the Labour Party is trying to suspect this. So I'm going to promise that the Progress Party and this government will continue to work for Norwegian natural resources to benefit the Norwegian people. We have to respect the right to taxation, we have to respect the right of concession, and we have to make sure that we facilitate greater industrial efforts in this country – not as we saw in the previous government, where this was treated almost unanimously, and where the important thing was to make the changes they made, instead of listening to what Hydro and Elkem wanted. At the same time, we have made sure that we build the rest of the country, we build infrastructure differently than before, at a greater pace. We maintain it, we build more renewable energy in Norway. We have doubled the rate of expansion compared to the previous government. All this means that natural resources are better exploited, and they create greater values in our dear country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1982	Can the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party guarantee that, with the Progress Party in government, the right of return is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1987	National control of natural resources will continue, but we have just proposed changes to ensure that industry can access it in a different way. With the policy of the red-green government, Hydro lost control of this. I consider Hydro to be one of the venerable companies that have been involved in building this country, and the fact that the Workers' Party stopped trusting the industry when they themselves put in government is the reason why we have formulated our program like this, because we want to take care of the industry. We have to stop by saying that one side is supposed to sell the country, and the other is going to build it. The experience of our three years in government has been that we are building infrastructure, we are facilitating and building more renewable energy, we are facilitating better for the shipping industry, and we are facilitating better for the industry. Then we have to start discussing the concrete measures that the Workers' Party may disagree with, rather than creating an overall picture that someone doesn't care about, when everything we've done in the last three years, shows that, on the contrary, we are making it easier for industry and investment to be more profitable, not less profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e1994	In the debate that has been on the sale of what is one of the most important things we have in this country, both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Transport have today tried to make it appear that we are not doing the kind of sales that we are concerned about. Then I would like to ask Councillor Solvik-Olsen whether he agrees with what Gunnar Gundersen said to NTB some time ago: ‘From the debate that has taken place on state ownership, it is remarkable how much has been passed on to the government.’ Does this mean that Gunnar Gundersen is wrong, because we have heard here today that both the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Transport talk down the government's ambitions to sell themselves into state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2004	Now just the Minister of Industry was here and set some boundaries and posts that the Aasrud representative just removes completely. The Minister of Economic Affairs pointed out that where we manage national natural resources and the like, it is important that the state has a completely different control from that of a company where only one has a financial location. Yeah, we've sold a couple of percent of the assets in SAS. There were no natural resources involved in it. We've sold ourselves down a little bit in Entra. But the one who has really sold the country over the last 15 years has been the Stoltenberg government, of which Aasrud has been part. Shares were sold both in Statoil and Telenor – both were partially privatised. Gisk sold Ewos out of the country, which was then resold for double. The centre party boasted that they sold 500,000 dekar forest, the holding in the credit fund disappeared, ownership of DNB was reduced, Norsk Medisinaldepot was sold out by the country, Arcus was sold down, Olivin was sold down, and it was the Workers' Party that started the sale of Cermaq and Entra. One should remember his story before one tries to criticize others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2014	This question, too, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2019	I have asked a question to the Minister of Oil and Energy, but he is travelling abroad and perhaps looking at the foreign tables. «In DN 18 October, the trusted Rune Krutå at the Alcoa Lake is quoted: «If the current price increases by 1 cent Alcoa will only pay 29 million more a year in the Baltic Sea. If the current price increases by 10 cents, it will be 290 million in increasing current billing. 290 million is a lot of money for a company that had 319 million in surplus in 2015.’ Why is it more important for government councils to make money on foreign tables than to ensure a stable framework for Norwegian jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2029	Also in this question, there's a statement that's not correct. It is not true that it is more important for private individuals to make money on foreign tables than for us to ensure a stable framework for Norwegian jobs. On the contrary, much of what I have gone to election on, and which this government is working on, is just to ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian jobs. We see that we are now in a situation where there is turbulence in the oil industry. Yesterday, Norwegian oil and gas said that 50 000 jobs have disappeared from the industry in two years – 50 000. It shows how dependent we have been on that industry, how important it has been as a driving force. But I remember how we, when I was in opposition in Stortinget for eight red-green years, challenged: Post an industry message! Give me an energy message! Both parts were voted down – not only once, but time and time again. The red-green would not present that kind of overall approach. We said, "We have to make changes so that the industry gets more control of the hydropower they use." The working party did the opposite. We said: we need to get improvements in the depreciation rules and a green certificate scheme, so that we get more of the investments in renewable energy to Norway instead of to Sweden or other countries. The working party didn't do anything. Much of what we called for in the opposition because we thought the previous government was leading the wrong policy, we're changing now. And we already see the consequences. Because we're doing something, for example. with green certificates, the investments will come to Norway. So we have a twice as high rate of investment in renewable energy today as we had in the previous 25 years. Now it's 5 TWh, almost 7 TWh if you take everything on Fosen, with new renewable power under construction in Norway. This means more power generation and thus better balance in the power market. We've made sure that the industry has a completely different way of using the power of its industrial production, and that's some of what Hydro has pointed out as an important factor for them to now invest in large scale in Karmøy. That is why I do not understand how the Labour Party, which has been sitting in this Chamber for three years where this policy has been adopted piece by piece, with a clear profile from the government, ends up standing here in the Storting today and talking as if nothing has happened. I almost refuse to believe that the Workers' Party has not got it with me, and that is why I think it is a little disappointing to make an artificial debate. At the same time, it is important for me that the power companies have said that there is now so much overproduction of electricity in Norway that they will not invest in more renewable energy if they do not know that it is possible to get a reserve on that power. For example, in order for them to invest even more in renewable industries – and I believe in harvesting our natural resources in a sustainable way – there are: Lights and other power companies said that they must be allowed to install a power cable that allows them to sell out of the country if prices are too low in Norway, or to import when prices are low abroad. That's some of what we've agreed to, but everything has to be treated as a concession. Any additional profit thereof shall be attributed to the community and shall continue to be taxed in the usual manner. In doing so, we primarily care for industry, but we also ensure that there are framework conditions for expanding more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2042	I record that you do not want to answer what you specifically ask about, and you try to talk to a lot more. What's real is that we have a system today where local power plants have their networks, you have regional networks, and you have cables that go abroad. In this way the Progress Party is now talking, it almost means arguing that you should have your own cables all over the country. That would be totally illogical. There's a reason you're skeptical about this. There are two logical approaches that do not make sense with the release of this. That's not what you're trying to say in the answer, that there are other public actors. Yes, right now it is, but what you're opening up to is that private almost can roll out the cable freely, even if it needs another treatment. It's obvious that once Statnett has done that, it has contributed positively financially, but if you release this, you lose that income, which means a lot of jobs. So once again, do you think it's okay for private people to roll these cables out of our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2053	The original question was a claim that I thought it was more important with foreign tables than securing Norwegian jobs. I gave a pretty good reason why the claim is wrong. So the starting point for this round was wrong. The representative can shake his head as much as he likes, but that was the question he brought in. It's not like you can roll out cables wherever you want. Actually, you have to apply for a concession. In that case, the competent authorities shall make an overall assessment of what it means for the power market, for producers and for consumers. We have repeatedly communicated in the Question Time that the role of consumers here, both personal consumers and not least industry, is an essential factor. We have seen that the changes made by the Workers' Party when they were in government weakened the industrial right to rule over the power they use in their own production. We've given it back. It's just Hydro and others that have made sure that we've built up the wealth we have, from the early 1900s to the present day. The oil has been important for the past 30–40 years, but before that, the industry was essential to us – and we need to strengthen the industry again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2060	I note that the Progress Party and the Government are more for the ideology of 'private' than to facilitate the growth of new jobs in the country. They showed this almost from the first day in government offices. They haven't done anything for the industry. Yes, it was when they attacked the CO 2 system that was about to be introduced. Fortunately, the government was rescued ashore by Stortinget, which led to the maintenance of the compensation scheme. It's the exact same industry I'm standing here pointing at, which was affected. The Alcoa Lake, which is used as an example here, is a company in the Lake of Lake Meuse for which it would be dramatic for both the CO 2 compensation and if you now get increased electricity prices. It directly affects more than 300 jobs and indirectly over 1,100 jobs in such a small community. My final question must almost be: Where does this stop? Is it that the last step you take in trying to give the powerful industry poorer framework conditions is what we've seen now? Or are there even more proposals from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2073	Now I have shown many examples of how we ensure that more new production is being developed in Norway because we have changed the framework conditions and how industry has better control of power resources because we have made changes to the framework conditions. The CO 2 compensation scheme was meant as a valve. If climate policy led to a sharp rise in electricity prices, industry would not be burdened as a result. What Juvik forgets about in that analysis is that we now have the lowest electricity prices since the early 2000s. Ergo will not enter into force the CO 2 compensation scheme. So here's an argument that's actually not relevant to the reality we live in. This means that industry now has better conditions than before. The power industry has better conditions than before. Consumers have lower electricity prices than before. This reminds me a little about debates Juvik and I have had before, for example. about E6, where for a month I had a lot of mouths because there was no more money for the E6 in Northern Ireland. But when the Workers' Party presented their own state budget, they cut off the road appropriations – the opposite of what Juvik had called for in the Stortinget. There must be a link between the criticisms made against the government and the policies that are being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2091	‘The fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. Nevertheless, the government of Solberg is entering into a political platform for eternal quotas. The Commission will grant industrial quotas and permanent concessions to universal trawlers. These trawlers are exempt from the requirement for Norwegian active fishermen to dispose of quotas. Can the Council of State guarantee that no eternal quotas will be granted to universal trawlers and that the government will not put the nationality requirement into play with industrial quotas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2098	The representative Hegø addresses important questions that we will clarify during 2017. I am now working on the Commission's report, which is also known to the representative Heggo. And I'm working hard to follow up the Storting's decision to present it to the Storing this year. It's possible that I'm missing it a little bit, because there are some legal considerations here that are very difficult. But then we get to clarify at least this question. What's interesting about the commission of duties and what's being said there, and I think we'll all notice, is that the commission of duties points out that there are different governments that have made this problematic, including the red-green ones. So the duty commission is quite clear that the reason we have major problems now is that previous governments have not done their job. I also think it's a little bit interesting to go further than the red-green period of eight years. Because if we go back after the war, when we built a fillet industry in Norway, which became very good, it was the Workers' Party that, despite considerable resistance in the 1950s, liberalized both the radiation law and the property law for fishermen. That's what we're still going to do. In the 1980s and 1990s, the trawls were unable to deliver, and they had major economic problems because the Workers' Party introduced a market-oriented fisheries policy without dealing with regulation. The companies went bankrupt, and the trawls were sold. Then we've had a development that means we haven't gotten on the rails. I've had an intention to do something about that. But with regard to the questions asked about the obligation commission, it is the Storting that will get the decisive answers. I'll make my suggestions and my recommendations for that. In the case of eternal allowances and the nationality requirement, universality obligations relate to cod trawl concessions – this becomes very detailed technical. These concessions have been granted without pre-determined a time limit for them. But here comes the Eidesen Committee, the quota committee, with its position and its proposal on December 13, and then I'm going to make my recommendations during 2017. So get Stortinget to work then. But to conclude now, as the Labour Party wants to do, before getting the thorough reviews and debates on this, I am not willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2107	The Commission points out that changing governments have been involved in discharging obligations, I agree with them, but they also very clearly conclude that Svein Ludvigsen from the Right changed from universal service to universal service, which really gave the mercy of universal service. I actually interpret the answer from the Council of State so that there is neither the will nor the ability to conclude and stand up for the nationality requirement and to bury eternal quotas. In the Labour Party, we have concluded that we are in line with the nationality requirement, in any case, and we are also a guarantor that the fish belong to the community. That won't change, no matter what's presented for Size. In the proposal of the Obligation Commission, the proposed universal trawler allowances are just eternal, without any other activity obligation. People have reason to be concerned, because in the programme proposal for the Progress Party, they say that participant laws should be modernised. Is this also the starting point of the Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2116	I get a question about this a little later today as well. The Progress Party wants simplification and modernisation, it cannot surprise anyone. It also yells at the industry. The industry wants simplification, modernisation and predictability, and that is what I am trying to do. And then I'm going to answer very clearly: the commission does not propose any changes in concession duration. I now have this for treatment and will make my recommendations for Stortinget. The nationality requirement – and the representative Heggø knows that I have said before – in the participant law is stuck. This government has not considered — and this is totally inappropriate — proposing changes to the nationality requirement as to who owns a fishing vessel. Then I'm at least clear about it, but I expect that even though I'm clear about it now, I'll get these statements a little later as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2123	The distribution made by the Labour Party via the Stortingen distribution section showed that there was a high probability that the nationality requirement was put into play with the changes that the government was going through or with what is in the political platform. But I want to go back a little bit to this with transferable allowances for the universal fleet, because one does not suggest a time limit – a retraction of parts of the quota, but does not suggest a time limit. I am very pleased if the minister now says that one thinks it should be imported absolutely. If the result of the obligation commission is that one departs from the Norwegian fish quota system – from being an agreement on social responsibility and resource control to becoming a commodity for quota barons and billionaires, at the expense of the community – can the minister be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2132	What the representative here refers to is the evolution that has occurred. I've been a fishing minister for 11 months. The fact that the Workers' Party is stressing that capital has gone over to capitalists has happened under other regimes. This development has actually happened to the Workers' Party at the rudder. And that's what I'm now trying to find new types of regulation for. So I'm going to be clear again – and I said it instead: the concessions that are granted without pre-determined time limits are there. No changes have been proposed. This applies to concessions granted under the Workers' Party or given under other governments. It's solid. Then I'm going to be clear on one more thing, and this has also been heard by the representative Heggo before: the Sea Resource Act § 2, which establishes the principle that the wild marine resources belong to the community, is firm. Me and the government have no intention of changing this. Then I have also been clear about it, and I hope and believe in later debates that it is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2142	«In months to come, important principles of fisheries policy will be debated. The distribution of resources between private capital and the community is dealt with both in terms of the universality obligations of cod fishing in the north and in terms of the investigation carried out by the Eidesen Committee, which looks at the quota system in the fishing fleet. Will the Council of State also have less regulation and more liberalisation, at the Community's expense, in line with the signals given in the Progress Party's proposal for a new party programme?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2149	With all due respect, there is nothing in the Progress Party's programme to have modernisation, innovation, which is at the expense of the community. This is the rhetoric of the Workers' Party that they're trying to attach. There is nothing in the Progress Party's programme that should be at the expense of the community. There's something the Working Party has created itself. I think it's interesting that something new is emerging now: the allocation of resources between private capital and the community. What is private capital? I would like to know what the Workers' Party adds to the definition of private equity. Is it all the revenue that the coastal fisherman has in being privately owned? Is it for those who work in the navy who get a certain ticket? Is that private capital? Is this the case for revenue generated by sea-based industries along the coast? Is that private capital? For me, this is about a balance, and about achieving the objectives that we have politically to put back more resources along our coast. Believe me – in eleven months as a fisheries minister, I have seen so much positivity out there. I'm so lucky that I'm allowed to travel out and open seine facilities, fish shelters and fillet lines. It's been a long time since it's been so positive on the coast as it is now. It happens very well. So I might first have to figure out what you mean by private capital. Because if it is the case that the Workers' Party actually wants almost a civil salary – that the public has to pay the fishermen and those who work on the fishing boats – then you have to say it. For me, private capital is a positive thing – it is because coastal fishermen have increased income, perhaps more income than in industries with which they can compare on land. But then it is important – and I said it instead – that the expert group, i.e. the duty commission, has delivered its report. It was a wish from the Workers' Party and a total accumulation that I would set up an expert group to see the duties in this context. You might as well or not have the duty commission put forward, but it is the Workers' Party together with the Storting that wanted this commission of duties. I'll work on it. I will present it to the Stortinget – perhaps it does not happen within the time limit set by Stortinget, for here are very difficult assessments, especially legal ones. Then Stortinget will be allowed to take the lead. What I'm concerned about is that we have to make predictability for the industry. We all agree that these obligations have not worked. Then I'm not going to look back. Different governments have made sure that the predictability that the industry has wanted has not been created, and everyone agrees that the obligations do not work. I hope and believe that cross-political solutions are found that provide predictability and growth for the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2160	I note that the Minister for Fisheries responds by saying that there is nothing in the proposal for the party programme of the Progress Party that we want to modernise at the expense of the Community. I just wanted to mention the proposal, which is suitable for assessment and discussion, on the possibility of obtaining negotiable quotas. We have also recorded that the Minister for Fisheries believes that there should still be a regionalised universal service obligation. So it's not without reason that there's great concern among the fishermen along the coast, and also in the Storting, considering what really is the direction of the government in this area. Will it be guaranteed that important Community resources will continue to be owned and managed by the community and create jobs locally, or will this be left entirely free?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2165	I will guarantee that this government and the undersigned will make sure to reverse the trend that the Workers' Party has ensured – that the settlement went down, that the revenue went down for the fishermen, and that local communities were put down along our coast. I'm doing my best to reverse that trend. I'm actually already seeing a positive out there. In fact, the number of fishermen is increasing in Finnmark. It's been a long time since we've seen it. It happens incredibly much positive. So it's true that it's not in the Progress Party's program that we're going to do something that's at the expense of something. Neither did the Workers' Party, but no one has sold as much of the community as the Workers' Party has over the years – Statoil, Telenor, Kreditkassen, Norsk Medisinaldepot, Arcus, Olivin, the DnB shares, the feed company Ewos, 500,000 dekar forest. All of a sudden, the Workers' Party has forgotten. But it's part of the community that they sold to Germany, to the United States, etc. It's caused us to lose billions of dollars, which is the community's ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2172	First, a little visit to the claims that came at the end. It is absolutely right that the Workers' Party has also been involved in the sale, when it has been correct. But we have also wanted to ensure that buying-in is guaranteed, that the values of the community are managed by the community and have tried to preserve it. We never said 500,000 cover forests when it came to State Forest, but we said we were in on an arrondance sale, which was to ensure that new investments could be made to secure the company for the future. I refer to the answer given by the representative Heggø when it comes to the claims that the Workers' Party has been involved in bringing down coastal communities. It was under State Council Ludvigsen that this work really speeded up. It may be the effect of the changes that the Fisheries Ministers of the Workers' Party have contributed to over the years in recent years, which means that we are now seeing positive developments both at sea and on land. Does the Minister for Fisheries agree that the principle of tradable quotas could result in a significant redistribution from the Community to private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2181	I've answered that. Now I'm waiting for the Eiden Committee, which is due to present its position in December. I agree with the representative of Grande that these are important debates, and I think we will have a long and good debate on the quota committee. Predictability must be created in everything we do in this. Then it's the way the Working Party – the Red-Greens – has done since 2001, is to introduce a processing obligation. It hasn't solved any of the world's things. It just made trouble for the industry. There was no profitability in the industry because of this. That is why the government in its maritime food communication proposed to remove it. Now, the engagement commission has assessed all three obligations in one and has come up with a solution. I'm not saying I'm going for the solution that the Duty Commission has come up with, but I'm going to make some recommendations for the Storting, and my recommendation will be one of several solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2191	‘Our marine resources can bring great value to new businesses. Today, the cost of exploration and monitoring of marine organisms is public. Private operators have free access. Norway lacks a functioning regulatory framework related to the use of marine resources. In this way, we risk large marine values being collected from private operators, while Norwegian taxpayers take the bill by facilitating exploration. Why has the Council of State not ensured that the interests of the Community are safeguarded by these marine resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2198	Once again, a very important question. There is a lack of legislation – absolutely right – and the potential is enormous. The reason why this has not yet come to the table is that we are working on the regulation, because the red-greens made a proposal for a regulation in 2012 that was not feasible. What the red-greens wanted had to be disregarded because the consultation recordings that came in on the proposal for a regulation expressed significant concerns about the negative consequences. Then we've started anew, and I'm working on that now, to put in place a regulation that takes care of what's going on in terms of both natural diversity, the marine resource law and genetic material. I'm working on this now, and it's coming. With regard to Henriksen’s comments on the public nature of the costs and the fact that private operators are almost free of charge: there is nothing special about the marine sector. It is not particularly for the marine sector that research at public institutions creates ideas that researchers or others take care of during commercialisation. That's why we have such a significant effort on research as the government has. It is also not right that the private should be free of charge. The industry pays a significant fee, which contributes to this. That this is important, there is no doubt about it, but it is equally important – and I think the representative Henriksen fully agrees – that we must take advantage of the advantages we have, which many countries envy us, and that is the dialogue and contact between industry, the research communities, the authorities and the politicians. That we can do this together is the most important thing we have to focus on. As I said, I am working on completing a proposal for a regulation for the extraction and exploitation of genetic material. I'm also going to present a bioeconomy strategy this Monday, which I think many will find interesting. That's the only point where I can say that I'm sorry that it's taken a little too long. The reason it has taken a little too long to present this bioeconomy strategy is that there is so much diversity out there. It's such a great potential. New elements are constantly emerging along our coasts as regards this with a bioeconomy strategy. This government has ambitions – along with the Stortinget and the Workers' Party – that if we are not the best at sea, we will be the best at sea. Then it's about going down the line carefully, because there are a lot of new species that we don't know how to handle, and that we don't know how to process. That is why the Katapult scheme that the government has put in place in 2017 is so important, where we assist business in researching and developing the processing of new species.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2209	I thank you for your answer. Firstly, although the Minister for Fisheries thought that the regulation that was on his table was not properly arranged, it is time to stop blaming others when this government has been sitting for three years. It will be exciting to see the final bioeconomy strategy. This is an industry with enormous potential. Today, the biomarine industry accounts for a turnover of about 8.5 billion. kr. By 2050, it was estimated that it would reach 70 billion. kr. As the history of petroleum began in Norway, forward-looking politicians seized and made sure that the community would have revenues from petroleum resources and build a national industry in Norway. That's the same job we have to do here in Norway. Then it is very exciting to hear the Fisheries Minister's thoughts about the device on such a regulation. Will he, first of all, ensure that there will be a regulation soon, and will he then be able to guarantee that the industry will share the profits to which they are given access with the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2220	To guarantee within the policy – both I and the representative Henriksen know that is gambling, so you don't. I can't guarantee, because all this has to be anchored in Stortinget at some point, in different ways, given that we're going down the value chain. It's not easy. I didn't mean to criticise the regulation that came in 2012, that's not how I meant it. I think we've learned from it too, because the proposal for a regulation that the red-greens put forward gave so many input into the consultation process that gave us so much concern that we had to start over. That's why we've started over, and I hope and believe that this regulation is going to be in place quickly. Finally, it is easy to guarantee that when we get a business that is expanding in terms of bioeconomy, it will generate income for the community. No one is going to go through this and get access to the community's resources without having to pay for it in some form.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2229	I hope the Minister for Fisheries will follow up on the last thing he said now. After all, it has been quite a long time without proper regulation of this industry, with the possibilities that lie there. Moreover, it is not a very difficult guarantee for a fisheries minister, a government or any politician to agree that the community should be able to have part of the profits of such a valuable natural resource. There are many issues with such a regulation, and it is interesting to hear what the Minister for Fisheries thinks about it. For example, Australia, which has put in place such a regulation, has regulated both access to the material and said something about who has the obligation of dividends, so that there is a fair distribution of future earnings. I am still looking to hear if the Minister for Fisheries can say that he will ensure that there is as much revenue to the community as possible, because what we have seen so far is that there has been no regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2238	I think we should jointly stress getting a code out of the way. Norway is the best at this, at administration, and I think we should keep that distinction – we should be the best! That's why I think we're going to put in place a regulation that meets the challenges. It is not easy, for the regulation to be incorporated in the Nature Diversity Act, in the Marine Resource Act, and it is closely related to the work of international law in the field of access and benefit-sharing, i.e. access and distribution, including the negotiation of the Nagoya Protocol under the Convention on Biological Diversity. It's not just setting a regulation. There's an incredible amount of consideration to take, and if Norway goes wrong in some area here, I don't think that's going to do us any good. Then we will reduce the benefits we have in resource management, biodiversity and bioeconomy, on which we have great ambitions. But of course, I fully agree with and just as impatiently as the representative Henriksen. Now we have to put in place a code, because here it's a huge potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2248	‘Norwegian Typing provides socially responsible games and it finances sports, culture and important organisations. We have denied that games should be a source of private profit, and will not let go of commercial foreign actors. Through illegal television advertising, we see that international companies are betting heavily on sharing in the gaming market. Will the Council of State follow the call of Organisation-Norway and its own strategy committee to abandon the idea that social responsibility and Norwegian voluntarity must give way to the international gaming industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2255	The government will pursue a policy that takes into account gambling addicts. At the same time, we want to ensure that the income from gambling in Norway is ideal. It's also fixed in the Sundvolden statement. Norway is an attractive market for foreign gambling companies. They develop games that are specially adapted to the Norwegian market. We know from research into gambling behavior that there are in particular offers that create gambling problems. The marketing of gambling is prohibited without Norwegian authorisation. Nevertheless, the non-regulated companies operate from other countries. It is difficult for Norwegian authorities to enforce Norwegian law abroad, and I therefore believe it is important to raise awareness of Norwegian players about the central parts of Norwegian gambling policy. Based on the Government Action Plan against gambling problems, the Lottery Authority carried out information campaigns on the activities of the non-regulated companies. Oversight focused, inter alia, on: that those companies are not authorised to operate in Norway. Therefore, they are not subject to Norwegian regulation either. It is particularly important to establish that the companies are not subject to Norwegian liability measures, for example: related to loss limits. Players therefore do not have the same level of protection as participation in legal Norwegian gambling. Currently, the Department is working on a gambling bill. According to the plan, this will be promoted for the Stortinget in December 2016. The message will include: describe technological developments in the field and how those developments create challenges for Norwegian players facing competition from abroad, namely non-regulated actors. In the Communication, we will also discuss various measures that can help to ensure a coherent and responsible gambling policy. A natural main theme of the communication will be whether the exclusive model should continue in its present form, or whether a licensing system should be introduced for gambling, but I will come back to that with the Stortinget before Christmas. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that social responsibility is the main foundation of our gambling regulation, and it is not appropriate to allow such considerations to give way to economic interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2268	It is good to hear that the Storing Message will be here soon. We've been waiting for it for a while now. When sport, Organisational Norway for the rest and the government's own strategy selection have been as clear as they have been in opening up a licensing system and eroding the exclusive right model, it will be exciting to see the assessments made by the government and what it has done that it has taken so much time to conclude. I have also noticed that in the Right Program Draft Party for the next period, it is proposed to allow more gameplay. For me, it's hard to see the relationship between that and a still exclusive model. Perhaps the Council of State can explain how such a proposal can be linked to securing Norwegian Typing's exclusive right model?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2275	I can speak for what the government is working on, and I'm glad that there are expectations for the big news coming. We've worked very hard on it. Because of technological developments, we are faced with some new challenges that make it a rather demanding field to work with – I do not conceal it – but in the Sundvolden Declaration, we state that we should take care of the gambling addicts, and that is the most important thing in Norwegian gambling policy. At the same time, the representative also knows that policy needs to be developed in the programming processes of the parties and new ideas need to be discussed. Then we'll see what the Right National Assembly will fall on and end up with, but I'm glad the representative is asking the question, because this is an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2282	I thank you for your answer. For those of us who are concerned about preserving Norwegian Typing's exclusive rights model, there is still reason for some concern about the future and the possibility of opening up more games. For every penny played at Norsk Tipping, 60 cents goes for good. According to the Norwegian Sports Association, the ratio will be 15 øre per krona from the licensing companies. When assessing the exclusive right model and the possibility of multiple gambling sensitivities, could the Government perhaps say something about the impact on Norwegian sport and volunteering of such a transfer of funds from the Community to commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2287	I agree that the positive thing about the exclusive model and an important part of it is that it ensures revenue from gambling for ideal purposes. We've seen a formidable increase in sport. It is the dilemma we are now facing in the field of gambling policy that we are very pleased that sport and other organisations are getting more funding, while at the same time taking care of the gambling addicts. Fortunately, we see that Norwegian Typing is doing a fantastic job of caring for the addicts, that they are being followed very closely. My answer is that it is the gambling addicts and the consideration of those who are to be the starting point of gambling policy. I'm very happy that we have a system that enables us to strengthen the ideal purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2295	«State forest sells about 15 properties in the fall of about 15 in total. Seventy-three thousand decks. Several of us have thought that the arronding sale should now be at its limit, and that after the purchase of forest from Borregaard/Orkla it is now sold enough of this for arrondering. State forests can play an important role in the development of forestry. We need a great actor like State Forest in the community, and that is not weakened. Is the government now willing to stop further sale of the community's property in State Forest?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2302	The answer to that is no, and it should be followed up by a direct question to the Labour Party: What makes the Labour Party turn around now? The starting point for the sale of Statskog's property is that when an Orkla/Borregaard was allowed to buy its property in 2010, the existing red-green government, where the Labour Party was a dominant player, decided to sell 600,000 dean of Statskog's property. So far, there are 440,000 of the dean that the Workers' Party has set. So the question rather than whether the government should now stop, should be: What has changed for the Labour Party from 2013 to 2016, which means that the Labour Party now thinks it is wrong to follow up its own decision on the downsal in Statskog? For me, it's important that this saddle now goes very well. To a large extent, local forest owners buy these properties. 70 pst. of what has been translated has been purchased by local forest owners in their own municipality. In addition, the Environment Directorate is the buyer, the municipal sector itself buys forest property, and forest owners in nearby municipalities buy forest property. So this is a significant strengthening of the local ownership of forest, a local ownership that will ensure good logging, profitable logging and the possibility of a new forest industry. It is the most important thing for me, and hence the sale of Statskog's property will continue – in line with both the order that Stateskog received when the Workers' Party was running, and the additional order that one has received under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2311	That was an answer just as expected. I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State has not registered that during at least the last two or three years, the Workers' Party has asked the government to enter and assess the question of how appropriate it is to sell as much as you are now actually doing of Statskog's base area. There is no doubt that the previous government opened up an arronding sale – I think we can discuss for a long time whether the limit was put in government or in Statskog’s government – but you have to have an ongoing assessment of how appropriate such types of sales are. It was right to have a certain arrondance sale. We in Stortinget – I think it was last year – have suggested stopping the arrondance sale because it goes too far. Our intention and our desire is a powerful and potent state forest that can be the engine of the green shift that we are facing. I would like to ask the Council of State if he does not now see the need to have a state forest of such size as we now have, for example. to further develop the processing possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2318	We have, and shall have, a strong State Forest. But we're going to have a State Forest that manages its properties optimally so that they can deliver surplus and resources back to their owners, which means that we spend money that we spend on these companies, building our welfare society on. But then we're actually dependent on the area being driven, and that there will be sufficient logging in them. The arrondissement hall that is now under way, which the Labour Party ordered when they were put in government and not just turning symbol policies into opposition, is happening as a direct consequence of the fact that there are things to point out that we are getting better ownership structure in forestry. Then you get a collection of property, you get a higher logging and you get lower costs. So I'm once again amazed that the Labour Party doesn't see the value of any of the most important things we have in Norway, private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2327	I feel that the Council of State does not respond at all to the challenges I put on the table for the Council of State and the Government. We are not against the fact that the areas are being operated, as the Council of State was now involved, or that they are being harvested – I was saying rather the opposite. My strong call is that you really think about it now. Selling significant land from Statskog, as you're doing now, is an irreversible process, it creates biased distribution, and it's really pretty bad store. My question is: is the Council of State willing to reconsider the limitation actually made in the mandate of State Forest for the possibility to run other types of industry – read: energy, in particular – but also actually to develop State Forest to become a major forest owner that can also participate in the necessary processing? The right-hand side has kept yelling that we need more powerful units to get it done. Should we not then take care of the largest forest owner we have in the country, and create opportunities for just such activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2334	We need more powerful units, and that's what we get when more forest owners now buy new possessions that they add to the ones they already have, and can expand their harvest and operate the forest well, and with it create profitable jobs in District Norway. Then I think the most important thing is that Statskog is a well-functioning company in the state forest with: development of forest property that provides profitable logging, which gives profitable returns to the owner, which means that we build well-being further into this country. The working party acts here and argues that it's scary that Norwegian private forest owners get a slightly larger share of the forest areas we have. Over and over, in spite of everything, it's the Norwegian forest owners who make us have a high harvest in this country. One should appreciate the work they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2344	‘The Concession Act is important for Norwegian food production, local ownership and housing in the districts. The government did not receive support for the removal of the entire law, but has sent, at consultation, proposals to, inter alia, increase the area limits for concession, housing and ostrich from 25 to 35 dean. This will lead to a very large number of farms, including in West Ageds, no longer being covered by the law, and we can have a completely different ownership structure in agriculture. The hearing shows that many are negative about the changes. Will the Council of State now scrap the proposal for changes to the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2351	I don't want to. I am asked by the majority at Stortinget to send this proposal on a hearing. I have. So I'm going to sum up the audio recordings and report back to the Storting based on that. But it is quite right that these proposals could be a slightly different ownership structure in agriculture. First of all, it is fundamentally positive, because today we see a situation in Norwegian agriculture where the renting area is still rising. Only from 2008 until the last figure we have in 2014, the land rent in Norwegian agriculture has risen to 44 pst. in 2014. He was at 38 p.m. a few years ago. If this development continues, the Labour Party can talk everything they want – on the inside and out – about one having wanted self-owning farmers across the country. But the challenge is that the farmers who are farming in Norwegian today are increasingly owning the land on which they live. One of the most important things we can do in the agricultural sector is ensure a well-functioning property market, which allows people to buy property, invest there and run agriculture because they find a value in it, because it gives profitable jobs, and because they want to run Norwegian agricultural production. What makes the Workers' Party think that 25 dean is the right limit, and not 20? There will always be border challenges when a new boundary is set. What this is about is that people who own their own gardening, just like all other people own their own house, are as much as possible able to assess how to translate their property. The fact that the Labour Party will take power from the landowners and move it to the administrative bodies in the local government sector or higher is a mystery to me. All the farmers I've met through these eleven months as state councillors have been busy developing the gardening they come from, busy creating values in the countryside they live in. I'm absolutely sure that over time, all the people who live out in District Norway, make good judgements about their own property, and they're going to make at least as good judgements as those we're able to from our offices in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2366	The answer was as expected, but I think that once one has had a case at the hearing and there is massive resistance, one could take it in. And it's not so nice that the Council of State has that vision, because on an ideological basis they would have removed the whole law here. The proposal is a solid eroding of the law. Based on the government consultation opinions, an exemption from the concession will also be granted for combined agricultural and forestry property with a cultivated area of less than 35 dekars. In Agder we have a lot of these, and we think they're pretty big. In addition, it is proposed that clean forest property should also be exempted from concession and price control. Today, we see that more people want to buy such properties, because they care that hunting interests are of great importance. Does the Minister not fear that with these changes the result may be that properties are sold out of the country to capitalist interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2375	There's nothing to suggest that it's happening. In spite of all this, we have seen a situation in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian districts over time where people are well off the grid. That has been a challenge. The Labour Party's response to this has been to resolve it with new regulations. My answer is to let people translate their own property. I think it's a better answer for the Norwegian self-owner. I still think that there should be an obligation to operate on these property. It is also in the hearing proposal that is out today. Having a capital environment outside the borders and owning large agricultural properties – or small agricultural properties – in Norway on which they are under obligation to operate, I believe to be very unlikely. So the Labour Party says that this is a violation of the law. So I would like to know, what kind of borrowing of the laws is going to happen by moving the area limit from 25 to 35 pieces?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2384	There is no doubt that in the hearings that have taken place, most people do not agree with the view that the Council of State is defending here. There are also other changes to this effect. As far as I understand it, the legal requirement also disappears. This results in the majority of the properties, e.g.: in the South, in practice exempting residence, which in turn means that a smaller part of the property may become the property of the family. How does the Council of State feel about changing the ownership structure will change the settlement in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2393	Changing the ownership structure, which may be the case, also gives new possibilities. There are a few things that are so popular when they are posted on Finn.no, as less gardening in the districts. People want to run a garden in Norway. Many young farmers spend millions of dollars on their own use, either small or large, to produce food throughout the country. I hope and believe that changing ownership structures actually gives new opportunities, so that more people dare to invest in food production around the country. And then I'm completely overconfident that the most important thing, which is still fixed, is that there's a duty to drive on these property. That means that a run an agricultural property, one actually has to be close to him. The easiest way to be in the vicinity of where a drive is, is to build on the garden that the area is around. I am absolutely sure that this will give new opportunities for light in the houses of District Norway, and bedrag, in conjunction with the agricultural policy we are leading, to greater optimism in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2405	‘In 2015, a total of 12,500 deacons of State Forest properties were put out for sale in Trøndelag, despite strong protests from, among others. Nord-Trøndelag Jager- and Fiskerbund, who at their annual meeting demanded an immediate stop and retreat in everything related to the sale of Statskog SF. 'We're not selling Statskog! Not selling our heirloom', was the call. Can the Council of State ensure that hunters and fishermen will continue to enjoy the same access to hunting and fishing areas at an affordable price as before the sale of State Forest properties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2412	When the estates are bought by others, I can't guarantee that they will rent out the areas for hunting and fishing in the same way that Statskog has done before. Because they own property, they can, for example: choose to use that hunting right itself. So I can't guarantee that, but I can guarantee that Statskog will still keep the pressure up to deliver good services where they are the owners. So we know that both in hunting and in fishing, private owners also today have a significant rent out of such facilities, which help many to experience the amazing joy of moving in the field and using our foreign resources, but it also provides the basis for the practices that are around the country. Then it is quite right that in 2015 – as in previous years – this government has followed up the decision made by the Workers' Party when they put into government, to start the arrondering hall in Statskog. I would point out, as in the post of the representative of Storberget, that the Workers' Party has turned this around in the case of the sale and arrival hall in Statskog, and then the question is: What is the real reason for it, when one chose to do this because one thought it would provide a better ownership structure in forestry and new possibilities for efficient and profitable logging? So the question is, once again, to the Labour Party – and maybe this representative can answer when the representative Storberget did not want it: what is the reason for a turnaround – from 2013 to 2016 – and now is what you yourself suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2421	In the Grand Duchy's Rules of Procedure it says that the Committee on Questions is the representative who can ask questions to the Council of State, and then I see that an obvious Council of State would like to turn this over a bit today by asking a lot of questions to representatives who want to get information from the government. The working party is for efficient forest operation. That's why you wanted to arrest properties. What I'm asking the Council of State is how to take care of the other core area that State Forest is doing, outdoor life – how to ensure the public, the people most, the ability to hunt and fish when disposing of such large properties. And then we've also said that we want to put a foot in the ground when it comes to forest sales, to see if it makes sense to sell in the amount that the government adds up to. So I hope the Council of State can answer me -- which is the questioner -- on how he assesses the open-air dimension and the possibilities for people most to hunt and fish when selling so large areas of the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2430	I shall reply to the representative as best I can. I record that the Labour Party is too efficient for forest management and for the arrondance of property. That was clarifying. But it is quite right that the right to hunt and fish that have doctored the State Forest's property is still going to lie on Statskog's property. Then, for the overcrowded property, the right to hunting and fishing is also – as I said before – transferred to a new owner. I can't guarantee how they handle the right they buy when they get the property, but we know that about 90 pst. by Norwegian forests today are owned by private owners. In these forests, there is a lot of fishing, a lot of outdoor life and a lot of hunting, to delight too much more than just those who own the property. This means that I have good faith that even new owners of Statskog's property will contribute to the fact that there will still be good opportunities for hunting, fishing and other values that can be found in the field, and that this will be consulted for most people in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2437	There are private landowners who ensure good access to hunting and fishing for the public, I fully agree with the Council of State in it, but what I'm trying to get the Council of State to respond to is how to look at the more principled approach, that state forest – which owns on behalf of the community – should have a minimum of land to secure these values for future generations. For there are large areas today that State forest makes available to the public. I want to ask more specifically: outdoor life is one of the core areas of State Forest today. Another core area was almost deflected by a pen stroke of the Precursions of the Council of State. Is it such that one wants to develop this area of activity of State Forest, that State Forest should be an active manager of our outlying, or do one want to limit this? Are these not important values for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2444	Yes, Statskog should develop the resources and continue to consult them, both in terms of hunting, fishing and outdoor life. I'm assuming that Statskog does for the property they continue to be owners of, and that's what matters. At the same time, most of the forest area is located elsewhere — with or without this arrondissement hall, which we have spent time discussing here today. This means that what is happening on the property is still the most important factor, but Statskog will have the opportunity to prioritise hunting, fishing and outdoor activities in the future. And one of the reasons why they do that is that by implementing the arrondissement hall, they get more holistic property, more opportunities to develop things together, and they can have more focus on what are the core tasks: efficient logging, hunting, fishing, and outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2451	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-23.ana.ud304e2466	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
