ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e80	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Svein Gunnar Morgenlien from Aurskog died on 22 September 2016, 94 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and Akershus from 1975 to 1981. After two years in the Administrative Committee, he was a member of the Agricultural Committee for four years. There he had his special competence and his strongest commitment. Svein Morgenlien was the man of the forest and the forest workers. He himself became a forest worker only 15 years old and was later both master and forest manager. But it was his lifelong work in Norwegian forestry and agricultural unions that he will be most remembered for. There he held a number of positions, from becoming a member of the board of Aurskog's Eastern Forest and Agricultural Workers' Association in 1948 until, in the years 1977-1987, he was associated with the country's elected chairman. Svein Morgenlien was a man who understood that the times changed. In his working life he had seen Norwegian forestry go through a dramatic change. When he himself started working in the forest in the middle of the 1930s, the hijacking took place by hand, the nearby carriage by horse and the long transport mainly by creaming. Almost everything seemed to be corroded in the woods. As a federal leader 50 years later, he could see that forestry had become a completely different industry, strongly mechanized and rationalized. It was a political desire and stimulated development, not least from governments led by his own party. However, with the sharp decline in the number of forest workers, the Association of Forestry and Farmers also gained fewer and fewer members. Morning Line understood that the connection couldn't stand alone. He therefore became central in the process towards the creation of the Joint Union in 1988, where the Forest and Farmers Association joined four other LO federations. Svein Morgenlien is described as an intern, also in his function as a trade unionist and politician. He always sought concrete results and was concerned with thorough expertise. Morning Line knew what he was talking about. Therefore, he enjoyed great respect not only in the trade movement and in his own party, but also in employers and in political opponents. His good lightnings also came along well, and many will remember the whimsical mornin' for his whimsical humor and cheerful lines. It was a long and rich life that came to an end in the harvest. We bring peace to Svein Morgenlien's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e105	The representatives Kenneth Svendsen and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland For Akershus County: Are Health For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e142	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting is going beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e164	We have debated several issues related to the Norwegian Church in this Chamber and the distinction between the Norwegian Church and the State. From 1 January 2017, the Norwegian Church shall be established as its own legal entity. The matter we are dealing with today is a practical follow-up to establishing the Church as a separate legal entity. I would like to thank the Committee for the good cooperation we have had in this matter as well. First a few words about the position of the Norwegian Church in our society. The Norwegian Church is the second-largest religious community we have in Norway. Until May 21, 2012, we had a state church and an official state religion in the country. It is worth considering that the establishment of the Norwegian Church as its own legal entity is taking place right now, in 2017, 500 years after the start of the Reformation, with Martin Luther at the head, in 1536 and 1537. The Luther judgment was not only a religious upheaval, it also had a strong political dimension. Our Norwegian tradition with a state church until 2012 reflects the strong relationship between church and state and the special position of the Norwegian Church in our society. The same is true of the broad church agreement of 2012, which forms the platform for this next phase of the Norwegian People's Church. The matter we are dealing with today is related to funding. I am very pleased with the good financial arrangements we have had, both for the Norwegian Church and for other religious and life-seeking communities. In the context of the transition from the State to the new legal entity, the country’s financial responsibility will become as before, but the funding will be provided as a framework grant. There are two main issues addressed in this case. One relates to whether the equity of the new legal entity should be included in the calculation basis for the grant of grants to other religious and life- views. The second relates to the inclusion in the Government’s 2017 draft government budget of a grant to the Norwegian Church covering the pension contribution until the new year 2017. The employees transferred from the State to the new legal entity will retain the membership of the State pension fund, but the Norwegian Church must itself cover the pension costs from its own budget. Non-Norwegian communities of faith and life have the right to claim an annual government grant equivalent to the grant budgeted by the State to the Church, calculated per member. In this situation, the government considers that the government contribution to the part of the pension contribution related to pension entitlements earned before the retirement on 1 January 2017 is not included in the measurement of government grants to other religious and life- views, because it is a pension entitlement earned by church employees as employees in the country. The Committee indicates in its recommendation that the Ministry will include the ordinary pension contribution in the calculation basis. The Ministry of Culture has proposed to grant 100 million. SEK to equity of the Norwegian Church. The proposition proposes that equity should not be included in the calculation basis, as equity is linked to the specific needs of the Church in setting up the legal entity. Our Committee refers to the opinions of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Legal Department has assessed whether exempting the equity of the Norwegian Church and the amendment premium for pension expenditure is contrary to Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights and to the Constitution § 16. They have come to the conclusion that this is not the case. The case has been at the hearing. While there were no objections to the proposal to exempt equity from the calculation basis, there were counter-conceptions about excluding the change premium from the calculation basis. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all except the member of the Central Party refer to the proposition and support the Ministry's assessment and proposals. I am counting on the Central Party itself to inform them of its views and the proposal they make as a minority in the matter. With that, I recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e192	The Centre Party considers that the principle of non-discrimination must underpin the funding system. We believe that the former privileges of the Norwegian Church cannot be seen independently of this. In the setting, the centre party is the only party that appears to be concerned about the principle of non-discrimination in this case, but the consultation shows that a large number of hearing bodies are critical of the proposal to exclude some of the pension obligations from the calculation basis. For several hearing bodies, it has been unknown that expenditure on pension contributions has been excluded from the calculation basis. It is not only the religious and life-sight societies and organisations that are responding to this; let me remind you that the Steelset Committee also pointed out that this should be corrected. With regard to the proposal to exempt State grants from the calculation basis, the views of the majority of the Centre and support the proposition are shared by the majority of the Centre. The provision of equity here is more understandable as a necessary remuneration to make the legal entity The Norwegian Church economically able to act as its own legal entity. In this context, I would like to express concerns about the decision in the financial position that sets the level of equity, which was made in the budget for 2017. The level of equity is an essential factor for the soundness and economic foundation of the Norwegian Church in the years to come. This is what should be the basis for future mobility, thought the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left. When we know that the allocation is only a third of what the church itself thinks is necessary, there is reason to be concerned about this. So even though the central party supports a law firm that opens up to exempt equity from the calculation basis, this still raises an additional element in the case. It concerns the gain on equity. In order to ensure equality of treatment, the Centre considers that the return on equity should be included in the basis of the calculation of support to the other belief and life-view societies. I would therefore like to raise our proposal on behalf of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e203	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e208	From 1 January 2017, the Norwegian Church will no longer be part of the State. The church is established as its own legal and economic size outside the state. There's a milestone in the history of the Norwegian Church, and I'm not going to go into it anymore. This separation of the Norwegian Church from the State is the reason why the Stortinget is now considering a proposal for changes to the law of religious and life-sight societies other than the Norwegian Church. In concrete terms, the law states that part of the state’s contribution to the Norwegian Church’s pension contributions and to the church’s equity are to be excluded from the calculation basis for grants to other religious and life- views, for which the case-rapporteur made a very good presentation. In particular, questions have been raised about the part of the pension contribution associated with pension entitlements earned before the church’s separation on 1 January 2017 may be excluded from the grant basis. During the public consultation of the bill, it was stated that such a derogation would be contrary to the requirement of the Basic Law § 16 on the equal treatment of all religious and life views. It was also stated that such a derogation would be contrary to international conventions in Norway. That an exception was made for the equity grant, no one has objected to it. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has carried out a thorough assessment of the constitutional issue and the relationship with international conventions. The legislative department’s opinion is set out in the proposal. It is quite clear that the proposal will not conflict with the Constitution or international conventions. That is on the basis that the government has promoted this matter. I believe that the proposal is well-informed, that is well-founded, and I note that the majority of the committee does not object to it. Although we are proposing legal provisions that keep part of the grant of church pension contributions outside the grant base for other religious and life- views, I would also like to stress that most of the grant of church pension contributions is to be counted on. Of a total grant of 179 million. SEK to church pension contributions in 2017, including the employer’s tax, will amount to as much as 105 million. kr is included in the grant basis. The Ministry of Culture is now reviewing and revising the legislation and funding system for all religious and life views, including for the Norwegian Church. I have also announced that we are working on a big message on the policy of belief and life. I have noticed that the member of the Committee from the Central Party believes that the law currently under consideration should have been dealt with on the basis of the announced announcement of the big business and in conjunction with a new funding system for the religious and life-view society. As a majority of the Committee also notes, this specific case has arisen as a result of the church's separation from the State as of 1 January 2017. The matter therefore needs clarification now, and it is against this background that the government is promoting the matter. Let me also underline: in the extensive work in the field of faith and life that the ministry is now doing, we will carry out a thorough and complete review of the principle of non-discrimination between the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views. A central issue in this work will be how to incorporate and interpret this principle into new legislation and financial instruments. Of course, the requirement of economic non-discrimination will be established. The challenge is to identify the practical implementation of the principle. I look forward to discussions in Stortinget on these questions later. I think many people see that today's laws for the religious and life-view societies need to be revised, which is also an illustration of today's case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e227	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e243	I shall be brief, for this is a matter that the Stortinget has debated in depth in the past. It concerns the follow-up to previous decisions concerning the dispensation of teachers before 1 January 2014 from the competence requirements and the validity of the derogation until 1 August 2025. The opinion of the majority of the committee is that the matter is both sufficiently well-explained and dealt with in a thorough manner, and that the government here has followed up well what the Storting has asked for. There is consensus in the Committee and in the Council on a strong commitment to the further training of teachers. There has been disagreement as to whether the competence requirements should be retroactive or not. All parties agree that we should have competence requirements for teachers, but there has been disagreement as to whether this should also apply, for example. for teachers with general teacher training from before 2014. Regardless of that, I think it is important to stress the Committee's position, namely that both local and national authorities are now responsible for the fact that those who are required to take continuing training in order to meet the new requirements of competence within the time limit of the derogation are actually given the necessary offer. In the original discussion of this matter, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left disagreed that the requirements of competence would have retroactive effect. We wanted approved teacher training before 2014 to be given teaching competence according to the requirements that applied before 2014. Now we get a solution that at least meets the concerns of the teachers and the demands of the teacher organisations, but the SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have nevertheless wanted to repeat in the setting what is our primary view, and which we still believe is well-founded. With that, I take up the proposal of the Left Party and the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e258	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e263	I note that the Central Party is the only party that will vote against this amendment. We believe that this case could have been sent to the hearing, as we do with other legal cases, but that is not what the majority believes necessary. We don't mean that. We believe that it would have been interesting to hear experiences from the school sector about how the decision has affected and will affect the school and school owners, what the challenges ahead are, and what the benefits are. Despite the fact that teachers now get a statutory right to a few more years to get the papers in order and get the number of study credits listed, the reality is that during the transition period of nine years they will also be locked in their current positions. They still risk not being preferred if they want to change jobs. Who wants to hire a teacher in a permanent position who needs to be paid for a study score, even if he/she has a nine-year leave? We are still at risk that many teachers will choose to retire when they are 62 years old rather than to continue training at the bottom of their professional life. In addition, we know that the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English are the subjects that are given priority for further education by the municipalities. Other subjects, such as food and health, art and crafts, etc., will continue to lag behind. We will have an a and b team at school: teachers with enough credits and teachers at ‘disp’ – as well as those about 9,000 who are already so-called non-qualified as working at school today. In various contexts it has come to our attention to point out that individual education is expensive and to a small extent the rest of the college benefits. We should like to know if that is true. And what is the quality of the studies? From a number of quarters, we have been given the impression that the offer of continuing training has been of varying quality, for example: in mathematics, and as the responsible authority, it is interesting to know this when someone wants to send over 30,000 teachers, many very experienced, into further education. But the principle is to grant a time-limited derogation to a law that has retroactive effect. I noticed that it is only the centre party that still believes this is wrong. We think it's better to introduce a law and let it apply from its adoption and forward, as the red-green government actually did. In addition, we believe that if the continuing training schemes are good, most teachers will avail themselves of such an offer, without being threatened with separation. That's how we could have given many teachers more credits, had the most experienced teachers at work in school until retirement, and let the teachers again feel distrust from the authorities. The government has made the teachers' competence one of their most important tasks during this period, and that's good. It is good that the continuing training reform launched by the red-green government has improved. Nevertheless, the Centre Party considers that it is still wrong to recognise the basic training of all general teachers trained before 2014. Very well-known, other professional groups have not been awarded their basic training. Yes, the Center Party is in favour of competence, and yes, the Centre Party is in favour of continuing training, just like the teacher organisations, but we are opposed to the way the majority have done this and will therefore vote against the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e282	I just want to say, after the last speaker, for the record, that when the representative Tingelstad Wøien says that the Senterpartiet is the only party that is counter-retroactive – what we call the separation of teachers at the mouth of the people – it is wrong. It is clear from the attitude that both the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party share that view. But we believe – once Stortinget has made a decision that we believe is wrong – that this is going in the right direction and is a receipt of an order from Stortinget. We repeat very clearly our opposition to the decision that has been made, and that is, of course, what is comprehensive in our view. The center party has no reason to feel lonely in the resistance to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e287	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e303	Only briefly from a unanimous committee: the Committee has noted that the Government of the Proposition proposes amendments to Section 12 of the Introduction Act on coordination with other public benefits for participants in the Introduction Programme. The aim of the introduction programme is to strengthen the possibility for refugees to participate in professional and social life and their ability to be economically independent. The target group for the introduction programme is newly arrived immigrants and their family members, in particular the 18- to 55-year-old group resident in a municipality and in need of basic qualification. It is a right and an obligation to participate in the programme. The Committee is concerned that this programme should provide, as far as possible, basic Norwegian skills and insight into Norwegian society and prepare for participation in Norwegian labour or education, and that, as a result of current practices for each participant, it must be calculated individually how much is to be transferred to the municipalities. This leads to red tape and resource use and, in practice, involves double funding, which the Committee considers inappropriate. That's what this proposition is about, a cleanup in that way. By repealing the second paragraph of Section 12, the Employment and Welfare Act can also release more resources for use in specific labour market measures against the target population. The Committee has stressed that the individual participant will continue to receive an introduction benefit from the municipality under the Introduction Act, Sections 8 to 11, and that we see that the proposal implies that the municipalities will no longer receive annual reimbursement from the Employment and Welfare Act, but may have a positive impact on the integration work in the municipality. It is positive to clear up such double funding as this proposition deals with, so that resources are released precisely to the labour market measures in the municipalities. It is also well described in the Report. St. 30 for 2015–2016, From reception to work – an effective integration policy. These are actions that the whole of the Storting has been behind and that ensure predictable and most efficient funding for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e318	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Schou for his good cooperation. She has been a good case rapporteur. I also want to tell the case rapporteur that there has been a majority behind this, and we are positive about the proposed coordination with other public benefits for participants in the introduction programme, so I have not intended to move into unanimity. But I would like to point out, on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and us in the Labour Party, that we want to welcome initiatives involving the reduction of unnecessary red tape and inappropriate use of resources, which was also the subject of the rapporteur. We are also committed to stress the importance of the optimum functioning of labour market measures, and it is essential that municipalities be able to assume the responsibilities imposed on them under the Introduction Act. We also believe that the funds released by the relevant legislative proposals should only be used to strengthen Nav's work activities in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e345	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e354	The Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes in the proposal amendments to the Law of 4 July 2003 No. 80 on the introduction system and Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants, i.e. the Introduction Act. The proposal concerns the legalisation of a test shelter. The proposal goes beyond the legal framework of the Law of 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education, i.e. the Training Act, and the Law of 26 June 1992 No. 87 on tests in general government, i.e. the Test Act. The Government proposes the authorisation of exemptions from the law or regulation which lead to the restriction of the rights of individuals under the Introduction Act. An example of such a test is the reduction of the benefit of participants in the introduction programme in combination with incentives to achieve linguistic skills. The reason for the proposal is to facilitate development by giving municipalities the opportunity to test new educational and organisational solutions in their work on the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The background to the proposal is to give municipalities greater flexibility. I should have first of all thanked the Committee for a very good cooperation. We've got a majority in the committee that doesn't support the government, but that's what I'm going to get back to. The majority of the hearing bodies have comments on or object to the acceptance of financial procedures. Several hearing bodies state that attempts to reduce the introduction benefit may have adverse consequences for participants with little or no school background and thus a longer way to learn Norwegian. Several also state that there may be a need to seek additional social assistance, that it can help to push participants out of the programme because of their weakened economic situation, and that it can in practice be or become more experienced as a punishment for lack of achievement than as a motivation for learning. Reduced introduction rates in combination with incentives for learning Norwegian are described as a possible model, but other models may also be relevant for testing. It is also apparent from the proposition – which I mentioned – that several hearing bodies have comments on the financial and administrative costs of the proposal, and several point out that attempts to reduce the introduction benefit for many participants could lead to increased costs for municipalities for supplementary social assistance and increased administrative costs for municipalities for dealing with social assistance applications. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, emphasise the importance of a well-adapted introduction programme that stimulates those who come to Norway and get settled to work and remain at work. At a time when unemployment is rising and the proportion of people in employment is falling, it is particularly important that we are clear from the time we arrive in Norway on everyone's duty to contribute. Therefore, it is also important to have a clear and consistent regulatory framework for the presence in the introduction programme and in Norwegian training. The majority also underlines the importance of facilitating the participation of women in the introduction programme. You're 70 pst. of the men who have participated in the introduction programme get into work or education, it is only 50 pst. by the women who do. We want to clarify demands for municipalities on the content of the introduction programme, so that women are offered a real offer based on professional participation and formal qualifications. The Labour Party and the Left Party also point out that Norwegian training must be required during maternity leave and refer to the comments made by the parties in connection with Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The majority are critical to a test helmet that allows the reduction of the support of participants in the introduction programme beyond what is possible with current legislation. We are concerned that there is a requirement for participation and attendance. We are positive to today's residents who give the opportunity to cut the benefit when valid absences are not available. That's why we don't want any more mortgages that aim to use cuts in social benefits as an incentive for better learning. We also stress that we want to be involved in carrying out organisational and pedagogical experiments in the area of the law of introduction and want homes that can serve as a basis for this. I recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e382	The introduction system has been too square for a long time, and municipalities have had a limited space for action in order to test out new schemes, including the possibility of withholding financial support for refugees if they do not meet defined objectives in, for example, language training. The government is now taking the initiative on the necessary changes to ensure that municipalities will be able to test out a variety of different models. In this way, it will be possible to achieve in the long term a best practice of what produces the best results, based on different models being tested. The reason for the proposal is to facilitate development by enabling municipalities to test new solutions in their work on the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and community knowledge. One of the many possible models of the amendment is that the introduction benefit can be reduced, and that the full introduction benefit of 2 G is given only after the individual has achieved a certain level of final test in Norwegian. Making demands, not least in language training, has always been an important issue for us in the Advancement Party and a necessary tool for good integration. The legislative changes provide municipalities with tools to both impose requirements and to test alternative devices for the introduction programme. An appropriate introductory programme shall contribute to providing those who have been granted residence in Norway, knowledge and qualifications to facilitate participation in Norwegian society and labour. In order to achieve better integration, the introduction programme should be simplified and improved, not least in the case of Norwegian training. The introduction programme has also, in the past, contributed too little to the preparation of asylum seekers and refugees in the labour market. The legislative changes proposed by the government now could help to make the introduction programme much more effective and targeted in the long term. The ultimate objective is far better integrated refugees and asylum seekers, both linguistically, valuablely and not least in the labour market. The legislative changes provide a special basis for carrying out experiments with new methods in the introduction work. This provision is linked to the conduct of specific trials, and these trials could provide valuable insight to Norwegian authorities that can be used in the further integration work. It is also important to stress that municipalities will not be able to ignore the introduction law freely. Any pilot projects shall be subject to approval by the Ministry. However, I assume that the Ministry will have a liberal practice in approving well-founded pilot projects locally in the different municipalities. The Progress Party and the Right in Government simplify, improve and further develop the public sector. I believe many municipalities are pleased with this change in law, and I believe that the decision we are making here today will in the long run ensure a better integration of refugees and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e397	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e402	Yes, I take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e407	Then the representative Mazyar Keshvar mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e412	The integration agreement was concluded just one year ago. All parties at Stortinget submitted this agreement, with the exception of SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, but also these parties have agreed on most measures. In the agreement, there was agreement to look at the introduction law and specifically consider: ‘Giving the municipalities flexibility to test models with incentives that can contribute to multiple take-offs and passing the Norwegian test, including reviewing the Norwegian training grant scheme, withdrawing benefits with absence and facilitating more Internet-based training.’ The Christian People's Party stands firm on the agreement, and we stand firm on this point in the agreement. The Christian People's Party also supports the government's justification for the legislative amendment, which is to facilitate development by giving municipalities the opportunity to test new educational and organisational solutions. Local freedom to design qualifications within the introduction programme is important. Integration work takes place in the municipalities. The municipalities are closest, and they have the best basis to know what are the effective and adapted integration measures for the refugees to be settled there. At present, there is already an opportunity to provide benefits if you do not show up. That's good. However, the government’s proposal goes further and opens up the possibility of withholding benefits under the Introduction Act in combination with incentives to achieve a certain level of final Norwegian testing. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this is not appropriate. Of course, holding back social benefits for a living is a powerful incentive – if you don't perform, cut the little one's clothes and food. The Christian People's Party believes it's an unfortunate way of motivating. I have 39 years at school, and I want to say that this is the way I don't believe in pedagogics. It's not going to work. It is also irrelevant to add to the same scheme in other areas, for example: cutting scholarships for students because they don't produce enough weights. Furthermore, the proposal may have adverse consequences for participants with little or no school background who have a longer way to learn Norwegian. In addition, the scheme could have some strange consequences: deductions from the introduction benefit can trigger the right to social economic assistance and could therefore lead to increased costs for municipalities and administrative costs. It is difficult to imagine a situation in which a municipality wishes to introduce a pilot scheme aimed at reducing financial benefits at a stage of training, if the consequence is that the same municipality has to compensate for the loss of income through increased social assistance. I would also like to point out that the IMDI and the majority of the hearing bodies consider the proposal to be of little use. IMDI provides, inter alia: questions concerning the adequacy of the proposed legal basis in accordance with the so-called legality principle, which requires that interference with fundamental rights and obligations is enshrined in law. The principle of legality is a fundamental principle of legal certainty which the government should have assured itself of its adherence. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the alternative legislative amendment that opens up educational and organisational experiments, but the Christian People's Party does not want to open up to reduce the benefit of participants in the introduction program. Another question is: what are the criteria to be met and what criteria qualify for migration? This needs to be developed so that it can be practised equally in the municipalities, or should it be possible to practice differently in the municipalities, so that it becomes unpredictable and thus unfair? I can't see that is sufficiently illuminated. Nor can I fail to point out that once we have made a broad integration agreement, it is in the word that it should be integration, and one of the first proposals made by the government seems to be in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e441	The centre party is initially in favour of local experiments of a pedagogical and organisational nature, but does not fully see the need for a new experimental home. It is not the case that today’s legislation places great restrictions on how municipalities should set up the introduction programme. Municipalities already have a lot of leeway to design and organize this. In other words, there is no lack of local freedom in this area. Recent research reports from Fafo and NIBR show large local variations in the introduction programme. The government's proposal seems superfluous, and the Central Party believes it is essentially about opening up local time-limited trials of an economic nature. The centre party takes note of the responses received from the various hearing bodies, which point out that financial starvation will shift the focus from learning to getting the ends to meeting, and that, on the contrary, it will hamper language training, not promoting. I record that the government would rather use whips than carrots in the integration work. That's what the Center Party thinks is unfortunate. For the Centre Party, there is no goal to make life as miserable as possible for the participants; it is an objective to facilitate the best possible learning situation. Reduced social benefits until the Norwegian test is passed will favour those with good competence and education when they arrive, and it will punish them as for example. are illiterate and must start from scratch to learn Norwegian. This will not be part of the Central Party, and fortunately the majority of the Committee will not. Today's practice that municipalities have the opportunity to draw part of the benefit if the refugee does not attend the education without a valid absence supports the Centre Party, of course. It's going to be something quite different than to draw the benefit in advance from those who need a little longer time to acquire the language. The SSB 2015 figures show that among those who participated in the 2015 introduction programme, there were 22 pst, or nearly 5,300, who had to have financial social assistance in addition to the introduction benefit. The whole point of introducing the introduction aid was to create an alternative to social assistance. When it turns out that more people already have to have supplementary social assistance, I believe that the government's proposals can lead to increased social assistance expenditure for municipalities, and that the individual participant is being hit in an unfortunate way. I also wonder that the government believes that local variations in public social benefits, in this case the introduction benefit, are good policies. There is a general need to revise the current introduction regime. Therefore, the Centre Party, together with SV, promotes proposals aimed at revising today’s introduction system and making it more individualised and level-adapted. I think that's absolutely necessary. Although the Central Party does not initially see the need to introduce a trial shelter, we still choose to show goodwill for the government initiative. That is why we are part of the committee's majority, which proposes decisions that make it concrete that the testing centre should contain only time-limited trials on the organisational and pedagogical nature – not of an economic nature. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal that we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e462	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e467	We believe that today's homes, which provide the opportunity to cut in social benefits if there is no valid absence, are good enough and need not be further reinforced, as the minority believes. That is why the Left is part of the majority in this case. At the same time, we believe that it is wrong to use cuts in social benefits as an incentive to achieve better learning, which I think Geir Tskedal presented in an excellent way. If you're going to have good learning, you can't keep up with it if you actually have the possibilities of living that are absolutely necessary. Such a permit will not provide the necessary security, in our opinion, and on the other hand it will be possible to carry out limited organisational and pedagogical experiments in the field of the law of introduction. It is important that the introduction programme increasingly facilitates participation not only by men but also by women in the labour market. It has always been part of what has been the guide in many ways. In this context, it is important that municipalities receive clear instructions on how to adapt to their users, and facilitate it for the most part. At the same time, it is important that municipalities have the freedom to make individual adaptations, based on what is possible in the municipality in which they are located. The introduction programme needs to adapt to individual needs aimed at labour market participation in each area, and I believe that this is a good policy that makes it much more appropriate to tailor to the needs. It is important that the system is so flexible that you don't necessarily experiment with the whole idea, but you have the space of opportunity that's there. Focusing on cutting performance based on lack of results is, in our opinion, wrong, and it does not hold back on the safety and positiveness of a good learning environment, where the focus should be on getting into labour market participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e481	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job and join in the contributions now made by the majority of the committee, which are opposed to the test family proposed by the government, namely to have a lower performance test as a kind of collective whip for those on the introduction programme, with the belief that it will enable more people to learn Norwegian quickly. I am very pleased that the majority in this case does not support it and what has been said about how such arrangements work and are perceived. It goes into the rhetoric that the government has put on, that you don't have the faith that people who come really want to learn Norwegian and live in society. It's exactly the same logic, I guess, that's behind the fact that you've cut Norwegian training in reception, with the effect that fewer people are going to learn Norwegian. On the SV side, we want fast processing, fast settlement, more Norwegian in reception and that all receptions become integration receptions. Then they're on. We also want a more flexible introduction programme, where all basic qualifications can be taken into account in the introduction programme. We, together with the Central Party, have proposed this. It's important. The introduction programme today, as all the co-representatives up here have said, has the right to withdraw if people don't meet or don't set up what is expected of them, so that's what they do. The Committee was visiting the municipality of Sunndal. There they have done this for many years with very good results, and people do high school and get started well. This is about an opportunity you have, linked to the individual's possible breach of agreements that are made. I can also draw attention to the fact that several of the participants in the municipality of Sunndal complete primary school with very good results during these two years. It turns out that this is going well if you manage to do it individually and professionally well. There's a very big difference between the ones coming. Some are illiterate, some have a very high level of competence in different areas, and some even have university education. Then it is important to be able to get a system that dumps these into the right place with the right setup. In this way, a much more flexible system is needed, which is going to get people unloaded where they're going. For example, I think it would have been very important to get in the establishment training, which I burn especially for, much earlier and also to connect to those who have run their own business before they came. This is why SV, together with the Centre Party, has proposed that we seek a revision of the introduction system, with sufficient personal and level adaptation in training and that we should be able to take qualifying training in this area. This is the problem – the municipalities say they don't have enough money, time and resources to cope with this individual adaptation. And then there's a lot of people sitting in the same classroom with completely different assumptions about how to do the training, and then it's even worse that the government is going to punish those who can't do this, about benefits. One of the important reasons we need to consider when determining a benefit for people who have no other income is whether it is possible to live on and whether it prevents poverty and pure distress. You have to have a system where you have to go to the social office and supplement it as little as possible. It's a cost the municipalities get, and that's bad enough, but it's a way of living that I think we're going to introduce as little as possible. For this reason, it is legitimate to consider that these performances are such that as far as possible they need to go on the hub and supplement during the time they live on an introductory benefit. Then more people will also get a position where getting along with the income you have becomes natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e495	There are today challenges in the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. Results are not good enough on a national basis, and they vary too much between municipalities and between women and men. Municipalities do not provide adequate facilities adapted to each participant, and there is a need for increased labour rights. In practice, the introduction programme has been standardised in terms of both content and scope. The government will pursue an integration policy that helps immigrants to live and work in Norway, become taxpayers, learn Norwegian and become participating citizens in society in line with their abilities and opportunities. The Norwegian welfare model depends on high levels of participation in the labour market, and it is crucial for society that newly arrived immigrants with a refugee background come into work quickly. Good results in the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge are essential to achieve this. I have great faith in the municipalities as to their will and ability to try out new things and develop the arrangements, so that the results can be better and more people come to work faster. Trials will provide important knowledge and experience with direct transfer value to other municipalities. It will also give me and my department important input to assess the need for regulatory changes. This is the background to the proposal for a specific experimental home in the Introduction Act. I note that the majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee emphasises the importance of a well- and individually adapted introduction programme that enables more people to get into work and get into work. I also note that the majority subscribes to the objective of facilitating development and increased flexibility in municipalities. I also record that the majority will not allow for economic attempts and cut the social benefits in addition to what is possible with today's social security legislation in case of invalid absence. This means that we don't give municipalities any opportunity to try out solutions with financial incentives to get more people to achieve a certain level of language – neither reduced social benefits for a period, which is mentioned as a possible example, nor other forms of economic incentive. This is a shame – I believe that this type of incentives can also have a good effect. But we're still working to develop the introduction system, and the changes that are being made here today will help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e511	Does the Council of State have any idea of the costs that could be incurred by the municipalities carrying out social-device tests, as proposed in the proposal, provided that they have to pay social assistance to the same persons covered by the experiment? This is one of the areas on which very many municipalities have expressed their views in the consultation round. Question no. 2: We support the possibility of flexibility for municipalities in order to carry out pedagogical and organisational experiments. But does the Council of State consider that there are examples of the proposition in relation to pedagogical and organisational trials that cannot be carried out under current legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e518	Today's legislation lays some foundations for the law and regulations on how to set up this scheme, and what has been the feedback when I've traveled around a lot is that you want even more flexibility in developing new ways of working. Therefore, one believes this will facilitate it. In terms of the economic conditions of municipalities, they will receive the introduction grant regardless of the size they are currently doing, but here they may choose to use it in a different way, for example through: have some financial incentives to obtain results. If the municipalities had wanted to do something like this, they would have had to explain how this was to be done in the application to the department, which would then form the starting point for whether it would have been granted. I take note that it does not get a majority, and so we do not go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e525	I agree with the Council of State in everything that goes on that integration is positive, that pedagogical attempts are positive, that we should maintain the welfare community and that we should have good taxpayers. We agree on the objective. But why use punishment? What does the Council of State think about how we use punishment as motivation? Now we can risk putting more social expenditure on the municipalities. The hearing body of the IMFI was opposed. We hear there are questions about the principle of legality. Why don't we use the same principle in education in the other schools and educational communities we have in Norway? We can also risk discrimination in the municipalities. I'm interested in hearing the Council of State say why she really believes in this way to run pedagogics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e530	It is probably those who try out this scheme at home by, for example: use carrots if the child is good at doing homework and gets good results — and may also have some other incentives in the opposite case. I have faith in making demands on people. I believe that having a carrot, having an opportunity to achieve something extra if you get good results, can have a positive effect. It would have been with such a scheme that the municipalities would search and explain in the application how to set it up, and then the department would decide on it. But I take note that you don't want to try this out. I think that's a pity, because I think we have to try to get to the goal in many different ways – to make sure people learn the language and get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e539	Pull in social benefits, e.g. until a Norwegian test has been passed, it shall be motivating to learn the language more quickly. If the Council of State considers that focusing on meeting ends rather than spending all the time on studies will lead to faster integration — contrary to this, for example. IMDi claims? And won't this favor those who have a good basic education from before, punish illiterates? I do not believe that it is natural for illiterates to take longer to acquire Norwegian language than for example. those who have a good basic education when they arrive? And finally, most women come here without basic reading and writing skills. Isn't this a scheme that will hit women first and foremost the hardest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e546	I think this is a scheme that would have helped to make extra demands, you could have a carrot if you got a result. That was the starting point for us to suggest this. It is quite right that there are extremely large differences between those participating in the introduction programme in terms of the level at which you are at. I myself have participated in the teaching of both illiterates and people who have come much further than that, and have seen how incredibly big differences there are. I think it is important to get the quality of Norwegian training in those municipalities where it is not good enough – in many people it is very good. The representative Karin Andersen was very concerned about the municipality of Sunndal. I've been there, too, and I've seen that you're doing very well. This is also done in a number of other municipalities. And then there's a part that has a little bit to go after. That must be our goal – to make them reach for it. Then I want more flexibility in the way you work, and I'm going to follow up on what is now adopted in Stortinget, to give the opportunity to try within the limits set by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e553	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e560	I agree, like the Tuskedal representative, that the Council of State in its statement had much to agree on. It is that the Council of State points out that: there are challenges: it is not a good enough program today there must be more work warrants There are too many differences between women and men a person must learn the language; one has to get to work A desire for more flexibility and better quality But I have to say that when we dealt with this matter in committee, the bill really created confusion. Nor do I feel that the confusion I experienced during the treatment has been solved by the Council of State. It has been challenging to overlook the actual impact of this bill. Not least, it has been challenging to find out which parts – in addition to the possibility of cutting in social benefits – add something new to today’s legislation. It is clear that cuts in benefits as an incentive are not possible with current legislation, but it is unclear whether the Ministry considers that new provisions are necessary to carry out organisational and pedagogical tests. Furthermore, it is quite unclear to what extent this will lead to the need for more introduction participants to benefit from social assistance. I feel that the majority, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that in today's legislation it is possible to cut in favour if one does not meet up. We have even pointed out that it is important to do this also when women have maternity leave – that they should actually participate. I wish the Council of State could answer: what in today's system is it not possible to do, in order to get the flexibility and quality up to a level where it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e596	When I hear the representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I understand very well why integration has not come any further in Norway. There is always more of the same – which has not given satisfactory results – that is the solution. When I hear the representative Karin Andersen, I wonder where she's been for the last 20-30 years. It is exactly the same arguments that we heard when we proposed to introduce compulsory Norwegian training, at the end of the 1980s: the Progress Party did not believe in the individual, it was a foreign enemy, it was not thought that people who came to Norway would learn Norwegian. Of course they would. So it went on for a few decades. It was not a matter of course at all, and mandatory Norwegian training was introduced, with both the right and the obligation to implement a number of programmes. When I hear representatives referring to IMDi's objections to these cases – what results does the IMDI have to point to when it comes to people who have completed the introduction system and participation? The representative Karin Andersen said that the committee had visited Sunndal. There I'm actually completely in agreement with her: it was a very good setup, and they had good results to point to. But this committee has also been in Minnesota, where we saw some quite different results when it came to integrating e.g.. the Somali population there – labour participation by far from 80 to 90 pst. versus 20 pst. in Norway. When they were asked what had made these people so much better there than in Norway and other European countries, the economic incentives were one of the most important points to point out. Hypotheses that the U.S. had picked out the Somalis that were the easiest to integrate, that there were Somalis who had worked for the U.S. authorities, etc., were strongly rejected. They have a system and arrangement for people arriving in the country, where help and support are provided for a limited period of time. Then you have to take care of yourself. By having this kind of approach to these issues, the results we can only dream of in Norway and in many other European countries. It may be time to try new tools when the old ones don't work, and not repeat arguments from the late 1980s that only people are allowed to be here long enough, they become part of Norwegian society – they learn Norwegian, and this goes quite unproblematic. It really doesn't. We need to have an active policy in this field. I think it is particularly true with the Labour Party, which in some debates tries to give the impression that they are as strict as the Progress Party, and want some changes. When it comes to the problem, in case after case in this room, we see that they just want the status quo and more of the same – that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e613	I just want to say that the last post is so unprofessional that I choose to ignore it. It's not near what's facts and truth. SV has today proposed an amendment to the Introduction Act precisely because we believe that it should be improved in many areas, and that also tells us by the municipalities. The municipalities that do this well today, who have spent a long time on it, who have municipal reception, and who coordinate this work, do it very well, and then we have to build on those who do this well and get it done. That's why I mention these examples. It is possible within the current system to get better, but more room is needed to ensure different arrangements for those who have completely different needs. That's what some municipalities don't do today, and it has to. There is great freedom locally today, but they do not have the freedom to introduce a general general whip that ends up in poverty. Unfortunately, this government believes in whipping the poor and carrots for the rich. It's old-fashioned right-wing policy, and it doesn't work. When someone even points to the United States as a dream country, you can look at the poverty rate, where people are in full employment without being able to support themselves at all by the salaries that are there. I really hope that it's not the government's goal, or the Progress Party's goal, that we end up as a society like the United States. I'm like more here concerned with the difference between women and men. In that case, introducing higher cash support would be quite counterproductive. Then you pay women to stay away from work and education and to be at home with children. Whether it comes before or after the introduction system is not so important – it is a signal that it is not so important for women to be in work and make money seams. Then I just have to say that when the Council of State answers that she knows that there are people who use weekly pay if the kids don't clean up the room, I think that's enough of an example that you don't think there are adults coming. These aren't kids, they're adult people going into the introduction system, and we have to ensure a performance that allows them to concentrate on learning Norwegian, getting through their everyday lives, and preferably not depending on going to Nav every month to supplement with social assistance. Because it's not smart. I hope that the Council of State can also look at the proposal that the minority has today. It is a proposal that could pass this on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e628	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e633	I understand that the representative Andersen would not answer the questions she was asked, as she does not have any answers to them. What is real is that what creates poverty is that people are not at work and are not integrated. Six out of ten children living in child poverty in Norway today have a migrant background. When I referred to the example in Minnesota, I didn't say anywhere that we want to adopt absolutely everything that's in the United States and implement it. I referred to concrete integration work that they carry out, and the results they have to point to. The representative, Andersen, cannot argue against this. That's why she comes to the pulpit of the Stortinget and invents things that haven't happened here today, like the Council of State has said that you have to be taken for pocket money, as you do for children, and thus look at adult people as children. The councils have not said it at all. Everyone we've been here, reports are written. This is the way the Socialist Left is doing rather than making concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e640	What makes me ask for the word was that SV incorporated the cash support into a case now, and it was sympathetic. I just want to remind you that 60 pst. the target population uses cash support in Norway, and using it against immigrants is not an SV service. They use this question to go against a matter in which they disagree politically. I think SV should stick to that too well. It's 11 months of cash support, and Andersen's representative formulated himself to keep women away from work. Of course, because we want to give them the same freedom of choice that all other Norwegian parents have to show care for their one-year-old for 11 months. I think we'll be good enough for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e647	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e652	If that's what the Christian People's Party is saying now, they have to change the arrangement, because it's not like you have to be with the children to get cash support. You can pay a day’s mother – so that’s not true. As far as the representative Keshvari is concerned, SV has been in charge of the introduction system and Norwegian training for as long as I have been on the Stortinget – and that is for almost 20 years, and I have been since 1989. We have made a lot of proposals on this, especially with regard to what supports women, that is to say, to strengthen job opportunities and many of those schemes, precisely because you must not give wrong signals. We believe that women should be at work and take care of their seas, and that this is absolutely necessary for equality. That's why we have to have arrangements for that. As far as the United States is concerned, they are more committed to establishing knowledge. This has been proposed by the SV and the Progress Party has voted against. They also have a labour market where there are many more unskilled jobs that people can go straight into. That labour market does not exist in Norway, and therefore we need to have a better qualification system than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e661	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e677	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e687	I really didn't mean to say that much, for which there is no tradition in these matters, but I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. The majority of the Committee has no comments on the matter. There are some comments from a minority, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I assume that they themselves will do well for them. But at least it is a joint committee that recommends the vote and the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e694	I can also thank you for the cooperation in the matter. The working party does not have any comments on the matter itself, but let me nevertheless make some comments on the comments made by SV and the centre party. Of course, there are parts of these comments that we can also associate with, like. Norway has ratified several ILO Conventions protecting the right to strike and the ILO Conventions provide that compulsory payroll can only be permitted if the strike endangers life, health or personal safety for all or large parts of the population. We agree, of course, but we believe that the Storting does not have the prerequisites to address the causes of the conflict. The parties to the tariffs are independent organisations, and neither government nor grubbing-up can nor should instruct self-employed parties to the tariffs. To the extent that one wants to say something about how the State as an employer or owner of the enterprises, who is a member of the Specter, should act, it should do so in advance of the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e702	The centre party has comments in the setting, not least because these comments will be comments that are part of what – as the representative Aasrud now said – is a down-to-earth treatment in advance of the forthcoming settlement if it is not going well, as has now happened, so that one has a premise for the treatment at all. I understand that there is no disagreement as to the comments that the party and SV have, but it is important for me to elaborate a little as it is said. There is no doubt that the cause of the conflict, which was very regrettable, and which caused both the employer and the employee great disadvantages, and not least the patients affected by it, is a lack of trust between the management of our public hospitals, in this case Specter, and the academics. That's the trust we now need to do what we can to restore, because it's a very central part of our Norwegian working life model. It is detrimental to the cooperation and development of hospitals if this continues, and not least the employer side has a particular responsibility to improve trust. This is usually central to Stortinget, because when the state is hospitalized, cf. the Health Business Act, is the responsibility of the Stortingen to contribute to a better relationship of trust. The case concerns the fact that the doctors have agreed to derogate from the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act and need clear agreements between the employer and the employee in this area. Derogation from the working time regulations of the Environmental Protection Act is of such a scale in the case of doctors that it is enshrined in an agreement with a trade union with the right to vote, i.e. with more than 10 000 members. The doctor’s working time regulations are very well known and are generally given. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, the continuation of an agreement with such a derogation from the statutory working time rules requires that both parties can terminate it. A legal status must not be established in which an agreement on exemption from the environmental protection law cannot be terminated. I hope that the Council of State, which is present, can stress that since we have so many exceptions to the Working Environment Act – they are anchored in an agreement between the parties, here a working party with more than 10,000 members – agree that such exceptions must be implemented on the basis of an understanding between both parties. If a person does not get a good solution to the conflict, it could mean that we will have hospitals with more or less attractive working time regulations – between private hospitals and public hospitals and internally between public hospitals – and that would be detrimental to the whole thing we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e712	Unfortunately, many people misunderstand the work of doctors. The doctors have a different working time and a much larger scope of work than most people are aware of. Once you've taken it up, it's because at the same time you've had pretty good clarifications about when you're going to get to work further, and that's the point that's now up to debate, that one still wants to have such predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e715	SV will vote for the setting today, but we have our own comments and comments with the Center Party. The center party has explained well the content of most of them, and we're going to join it. This is about several things. I agree, to some extent, with what Mr Aasrud said. Both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have written comments in the budget statement on the employer policy of the State, which is on the Municipal and Administrative Committee, where some of these issues have been discussed. So it might take a greater review of this employer policy to know in advance what's coming, because it's a little difficult to react to something you don't know what's before it comes. But this with trust and management responsibilities, which have been pointed out by many, is important. It is ominous, what has happened, and SV believes that trust reform is also needed in hospitals, precisely on the basis that this is not a normal business operation, but one of our all, the most important welfare and management tasks that must be solved for the benefit of the population, and where the various management philosophies that are underpinned must vote with it, and not with what is believed to be private business. So to Norway and the use of forced pay: Over a number of years, Norway has had some sharp criticisms under various governments about the use of forced pay. Anyone who would be interested in it can go back to the Stortinges minutes and see that I have kept such posts several times, because I believe that the use of compulsory pay terms as often as in Norway does not contribute to making the tariffs parties responsible for finding solutions. For you know that you are being pressured into entering with forced pay, and that there is a greater tendency to do so in Norway than in some other countries. This means that the parties through their actions, e.g.: where exemption applications are not accepted, a payroll title may be enforced. Employers often end up with a solution that is beneficial to the employer. We are sceptical and critical of this practice and should have wished we could have gone through on a slightly wider basis how to deal with this in the future. Of course, it is absolutely impossible for the Storting in individual cases to decide or contest it when the authorities believe that life and health are threatened. It's not possible to think anything other than that, but it's how to allow the parties to act along the way, which means that you don't find a solution, but chooses to run the conflict so hard that you end up in forced pay too often. Therefore, SV has these comments in today's setting, but we are going to vote for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e736	It is, as many people have been here today, the social partners that are responsible for the income statements and for the peace of work. The freedom of negotiation with access to the use of means of combat means means that society must also tolerate the disadvantages of a conflict of labour. At the same time, it is generally accepted that neither strike nor lockout should affect society in a way that endangers life and health. Following a breach of the negotiations between the Academics and Specter of Health Companies, the Academics announced on 10 June 2016 a notice of resignation for 329 members of health companies. The Riksmökler made a ban on stoppages and called the parties to mediation. After mediation on 5 and 6 September, the broker found that the parties were so far apart that there was no basis for submitting a proposal that could be expected to be recommended by the parties. The mediation was concluded at 1 p.m. 00.30 a.m. to 7 September, and the strike was a fact. The strike was escalated several times, and the parties were called to a new forced mediation on 5 October. Both parties informed that they did not find a basis for moving their positions in order to find possible intermediate solutions. The mediation was closed, and further escalation of the strike was reported. State health surveillance followed closely the strike in health businesses and evaluated the consequences of the strike on patients’ lives and health. The strikeout included not only doctors, but also psychologists, engineers, lawyers, economists, social scientists and dentists. As the strike escalated, more and more delays of various types of consultation and processing were reported and it became increasingly demanding to have an overview of the situation. When the strike was within its fifth week, it included 628 persons in 13 health establishments. On 11 October 2016, the Health Authority concluded that there had been a risk to life and health. The conclusion of the State Health Authority was clear and unambiguous. The current situation of uncovered guards at the HF Nordic Hospital meant that there had been a risk to life and health as a result of the strike. In addition, the strike led to a very large number of vulnerable studies, treatments and consultations, which led to the exclusion of patients from the possibility of poorer or at risk of reduced life expectancy. A large amount of outsourced studies and consultations also posed an imminent risk of the provision of services becoming irresponsible for a longer period of time, even after a conflict has ended. In the light of the Health Authority's assessment, I called the parties to a meeting on Tuesday 11 October at. 6:30. The parties confirmed at the meeting that they did not see any possibility of reaching an agreement. In the light of this, I informed that the government considered it necessary to submit proposals to the Stortinget concerning the compulsory payroll treatment of the employment dispute. Such a situation had developed, I believe it would be irresponsible not to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e760	I would like to thank the Council of State for the article. I fully agree that the parties are responsible and that it is free to negotiate. At the same time, we must also consider why there was a strike – why there was a conflict. It is linked to a change in understanding of the content and practice of the tariff provisions, where less collective protection was provided for employees authorised by the Labour Environment Act. That's what's one of the central points. When a person has an exception to the Labour Environment Act, the parties are required to agree on that exemption, because it goes very far in demanding more of the employees than the general labour-environment law provides. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that the continuation of such an exemption from the Working Environment Act requires both parties to agree on the content of the exemption, so that there is a reasonable balance between the burdens on both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e769	I do not know the details of the agreement concluded between the parties. This is an agreement that has been concluded between them, and it is those who are responsible for both managing the agreement and following up the agreement they themselves have entered into. We have all read the newspapers and heard that there has been a dispute about the interpretation of the agreement. However, it is equally fully the responsibility of the parties to ensure that the agreement between them is properly followed up. The issue we have today for treatment is the consequences of a strike. Health surveillance made it clear that after five weeks of strike, there was a danger to life and health. The consequence of this was that we had to intervene with compulsory pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e779	There is an agreement that is absolutely necessary when one has such an exception. The agreement regulates the conditions of public hospitals. Hospitals are not only public, they are owned by the state, and it is the Council of State that is primarily responsible as an employer for hospitals. Therefore, the Council of State cannot simply say that this is an agreement between two parties. One party is in its basic consequence the government and the state. Therefore, my question remains: a derogation from the Labour Environment Act, which is as comprehensive as we have here, requires that the parties – both the employer and the employee – agree to it. Does the Council have any comments on the question of principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e784	Clearly, it is an advantage that both parties to the agreement agree on the understanding of this agreement. We must assume that in the conclusion of the agreement they have a common understanding of what this agreement involves. It is the parties that have concluded this agreement and it is their responsibility to follow up the agreement, how it should be understood and how it should be complied with. The state is a hospital owner. I don't think it's natural for me, as Minister of Labour, to comment on that part of it. The Minister of Health can certainly explain that better than I can. But again, the agreement that has been concluded is the responsibility of the parties, both for its understanding and for its compliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e791	It is the Minister of Health who has the professional responsibility, while the Minister of Labour is responsible for labour policy. That is why we are in contact with the Minister of Labour here today. I am a little surprised that the Minister of Labour has not been more involved in the cause of the strike. It was a strike that caused many major disadvantages. That is why I think it would be quite natural for the Minister of Labour to have insight into what is the basis of strike, and what needs to be done to improve confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e798	I perceived it more as a comment than a question. I just want to refer to my previous answers. I understand that what we are facing now is that the parties must sit down together and agree on how the agreement is to be understood. The issue we have today for treatment is the consequence of the strike that arose. Five weeks of strike resulted in a risk to life and health. Then the government saw the need to intervene in pay terms. However, it is the responsibility of the parties – the employer’s side is Specter, and the employee’s side is the Academics – to ensure that the agreement is understood equally between the parties, so as to avoid this kind of situation again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e805	I think everyone agrees that the use of forced pay should be minimised, that there is no desired situation. In this respect, it becomes somewhat unclear what the government's policy is in this area, because employers' policy is, of course, a policy; it is not an area that is excluded, which some people are doing as a subject. Then it's interesting what the government's input to Spectres, because you can't be completely relieved and say that Spectres are something separate, while the state is doing something different. The question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that it would have been better to have had more and more comprehensive reviews of the government's employer policy as its own issues in the Stortingen, so that more clear guidance had been given from it or discussed through what the government and the various departments have put in as their input to Spectres before such negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e810	Now the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is responsible for government employers' policies, and it is working on a strategy, a strategy of its own – it is the first time in 20 years, as far as I know. I do not know the details in it, but I believe that employer policy is a central and important area. I'm glad that the Minister for Modernization has taken this to heart – 20 years ago, it's not one day too early. Then we'll get back to how it's going to be treated later. As I said, this is in a department other than mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e815	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e822	As the rapporteur said, it is not common for so much debate to be held on these kinds of issues in the Chamber, and that is a good reason. It's a very important, very important element in the Norwegian model, and it's been ever since the main agreement in 1935, that the parties are in the middle to settle the payroll, and that we don't have any interference from the Storting in it. This does not mean, of course, that a person cannot have a discussion about the state’s employer role, but in relation to a government council other than the state council that is now here. We have e.g. views on the fact that the spring wage settlement in the state ended with two collective agreements in some of the same fields, or has views on, and that is relevant in relation to the state council that is here, the ILO's comments on how we follow up our commitments in relation to the ILO Convention. But what's the reason we're not involved in any of the comments here is that these comments, especially the joint comment between the Center Party and SV, go a long way towards changing the sun and wind between the parties' role in a concrete settlement, and that's very contrary to the idea behind the Norwegian model, which I see as the line change with the Council of State was a confirmation of. I am pleased that the Council of State responded as she did in relation to her role and responsibility for the possible use of forced pay, and that it is the relevant expert councils or the coordinator of the employer's responsibility that respond to other things. In the comment that is now being discussed, reference is made to the Norwegian model, and what is especially in that note is that it breaks with one of the cornerstones of the Norwegian model that has been there since 1935, namely that there are the parties that settle between themselves in wage settlement. The issue we now have to deal with is the use of compulsory payroll, and in relation to that we believe it is wrong to start changing the sun and wind between the parties in the concrete settlement, but we would like to take part in a debate on the state's employer role, because we have, I am aware, not had a thorough debate on since the beginning of the 1990s here in Norway. Then we agreed that it was an advantage that the state had one agreement. It's broken this year. We believe that this is a political mistake as an employer's position for the state, but it has nothing to do with this matter. That is why we do not agree with the comments that, in our opinion, support the whole idea behind the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e829	The centre party fully agrees with what Dag Terje Andersen says about free negotiations and that if you do not agree, you have the tools that are defined by law and regulation. What is special in this case is that Specter is in this case an employer's organisation for hospitals, and the hospitals are owned by the state, and the chief responsibility for hospitals is the Minister of Health and Care. Therefore, it is essential to make some comments as to why it was a strike, because that is the opportunity we have to discuss this in Stortinget if you would not travel a case of your own. That's why the Center Party has written notes on it. The state is an employer, and the state has a great responsibility here. It is important for us to ensure that the exemption provided for in the Working Environment Act is practised in such a way that it provides predictability and security for all those working in hospitals, because it is the whole system built on – that such extensive exceptions to the law should have the anchoring. That's a position the Center Party is on. We continue to insist that the state should take seriously the causes of this conflict, so that we do not get into the same situation next year, with similar conflicts, which may, in consequence, lead to different working hours for different hospitals – different state hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e840	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e856	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e865	I want to start by thanking the Labour and Social Committee for good work and good cooperation in the matter. Today we are dealing with one thing with several different parts. Political disagreement seems clearly concentrated on one part of the issue. For the other proposed amendments, it is a joint committee which promotes its suspension. Let me start with the areas where the committee agrees. What we are doing now is minor changes in the pension scheme for escorts in the EEAS. This is a consequence of a change in times. Many now choose cohabitation rather than marriage, and the pension schemes also have to follow. Some changes are also made as a result of previously unintended differences based on marital status. Finally, individual legislative changes are made to the State Pension Fund Act, pharmacies pension scheme, etc. and Nursing Scheme Act. Where the political disagreement arises, it is in the part of the case which deals with the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients. It would have been easy to make a big point out that the opposition here is trying to rematch in an already adopted case, because the obligation of activity was actually adopted a year and a half ago, and a majority of the Storting was behind. The issue today is a legal follow-up to it, and it is also linked to the State budget, which, in the interests of the Labour and Social Committee, we are going to deal with later this week. For individuals, it is important and right that we ensure that more people come to work, and that fewer people end up with disability or unemployment. In dealing with the changes in the Working Environment Act, we noticed that the government has clearly understood which groups are struggling to get a job. People who are in pre-employment, and who receive social assistance, are well placed to be required, in line with everyone else in society. To make demands is to care, to be asked is to be seen. Obligations of activity help individuals to avoid inaction; it helps individuals to move on; it helps individuals to fill the CV by doing something meaningful. When we agreed on the obligation of activity in this room a year and a half ago, some people pointed out that this was going to cost a lot, and a claim was made that the municipalities had to be compensated for the additional costs that the obligation of activity was supposed to impose on them. Now it turns out on the contrary that we save money; we see it in several of the municipalities that have already implemented the obligation to operate. We see that more people come out of social assistance faster and back to work. Nevertheless, in its draft budget, the government chooses to compensate municipalities for any expenses that come with it. There is therefore no reason to delay the introduction of an activity obligation, initially for them under 30 years. I hope a broad majority sees that this is in the interests of the individual recipient, and that is in the interests of society. We must not be afraid to make demands. We also have the research on our side, which shows that this actually works. That's why I think it's strange that the opposition here today chooses not to participate in an action that will help many young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e882	Today we have changes affecting important parts of the safety net in the Norwegian welfare country. Several laws are being amended, and although only one is being given attention here today, there are other important changes. It may not be so strange that the government parties do not use force on changes that those who are in one of the criminal institutions abroad should no longer be able to benefit from popular security. Only now, two years after the idea of exporting prisoners to atoning in the Netherlands came up, the rules change so that these prisoners will not be entitled to Norwegian social security benefits. For a government that has made implementing power its mantra, it must be difficult to get to Stortinget with one thing now. For more than one year, prisoners have been entitled to social security benefits because they are zones outside Norway. This is probably why the matter is listed without comments from the case rapporteur here today. Three years after they took up the government offices and one and a half years after a majority of the Storting took up the obligation of activity for all those who receive social assistance, we are now dealing with a matter that concerns about one third of those who are under 30 years of age and receive social assistance. From 130 000 persons, the economic calculations now show that the obligation shall apply to 15 000. The Labour Party believes it is good that a new Council of State is more sensitive to reality than the one that made the first proposal some time ago. The proposition describes significant derogations, precisely because it is obvious that many of those who are beneficiaries of social assistance do not need whips, but treatment and measures to get on with life. Others have work, but have come up in economic hardship. The working party is for the obligation of activity for those who benefit from it, whether they are over or under 30 years of age. We changed the law already in 2010 to allow the municipalities, which are responsible for social services, to impose activity. For some it will be work, for others it will be treatment, rehabilitation, training or social activity. But until it takes money, activities don't do themselves. The Proba report, which is the basis for the matter we have today, says: ‘A large proportion of those who are given conditions of activity are now transferred more or less immediately to State action.’ There are 50,000 young people under 30 who receive social assistance. Then it doesn't help much that you give 60 million. kr. It is one hundred times a month per recipient. Why are the state measures not increasing? Who is to be displaced from the measures currently in place? Or are the municipalities supposed to make the measures? The price for this is estimated in the same report at approximately 8 600 kroner per month per beneficiary. It is in stark contrast to the one hundredth patch that is granted. The Workers' Party is in favour of activity, but not a legal body that is not financed. Our meetings with Nav employees show that there is a need for close follow-up to succeed in raising those who have fallen out of either school or working life, but that does not happen when we hear today about supervisors who have over 100 users to take care of. We in the Labour Party believe that we need to pay more attention to measures. This is why we are strengthening measures in the field of school health, drug use and rehabilitation. We are increasing the number of action sites, and we are strengthening the municipal economy significantly. We want to give the social welfare recipients opportunities, not empty legal bases. We will vote in favour of the proposal by the SVs and the Central Party for an activity right, because we see that it can give us an opportunity to get an assessment, as it says in the case, among other things. the actual cost of the measures. In our opinion, such a scheme will be in addition to the possibility for municipalities to impose conditions on activity in what is today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e906	I was a little embarrassed by the post we just heard, because the Workers' Party has so many messages at once that it is actually not possible to relate to one of them. One is that the representative Aasrud says that the obligation of activity costs money, but in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, they cut all the money into the obligation of activity. So what they think costs money, they don't want to give money to. The second is the ridicule of the appropriations agreed by the four cooperation parties in this regard. What's the result of that? It is the result of the funding dialogue that the government has had with KS. So there's a lack of ability and willingness to listen to the municipalities. But there's also a lack of ability and willingness to listen to yourself and her own positions, as we heard from the representative Aasrud now, because she thinks the duty of activity is good, but she doesn't want to give the money to it. The working party has a very strange view on this matter. They are for an activity obligation, but they do not want it to be an activity obligation in all municipalities, or at least they do not want to lift a finger for it to be an activity obligation in all municipalities. I myself have been sitting in debates with representatives of the Workers' Party who have boasted that the imposed duty of activity – that is what the Workers' Party is saying at the moment. That's not what they said when we dealt with the obligation of activity last time – a rather different message than they had then, but okay. They now boast that they were the ones who introduced the activity obligation, but they are against the government's proposal on the obligation of activity in all municipalities. It is not possible to say yes and no at the same time. Yes and no is the ultimate contradiction in the Norwegian language, but that is what the Labour Party is trying to do in this debate. Let's take the arguments why this is important. Okay. When welfare researchers look at the challenges of the Norwegian welfare system, what are they saying? Well, one of the major problems is that we have a high proportion of Nordics on health-related benefits — higher than in countries we compare with — without it being explained in the health or work environment. If you talk to users of Nav or people who work in Nav – what do they think is a problem in the Norwegian welfare system? Well, they think lack of follow-up is a problem. And how have you ended up in this situation? One reason that researchers have pointed out for a long, long time, and that we finally have a government that does something about, is that we have had a medication of the Norwegian social security system. Too many people are placed on health-related benefits in the absence of good alternatives in the welfare system. As a result, the resource situation in relation to these benefits is demanding. Some of the points and some of the good things about the Nav reform are the cooperation between the municipality and the state. If you read SINTEF's evaluation of the redundancy money, you'll see that a number of Nav staff there say to the researchers that they think that young people, many young people who have the AAP, would feel better if they had the follow-up they should have in the municipalities. That's what we're doing. And then you see that it works. Activity duty works! It makes people get to work faster. It makes people avoid involuntary inaction in the social security system, but it only works in the municipalities where you have it. That's why this is now going to apply everywhere, and that's what the opposition is against. A measure they think is good, they say, should only apply in some places. It's a strange message -- a very strange message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e926	The centre party is strongly attached to the old slogan of the Workers' Party to do its duty and claim its right. We belong to those who demand people, while we are warm to those who labor, and the production that the representative gave before me is quite trendy. All municipalities today have the option of setting conditions for the payment of services under the Social Services Act, and a good number of municipalities do. It was through a decision that came under the red-green government in 2010, that one received such a change that one could set conditions regarding the obligation of activity. What has happened then is that a number of municipalities have followed it up. It has been a political will to follow it up. It has meant that one has to go into the dilemma that it is. One must then have an offer for the people involved, and at the same time constantly consider: if the people involved do not follow that obligation, what should one do as regards the basic income that a person needs for living? It is a dilemma that neither the representative Heggelund nor the representative Wiborg are going into, but the government is going into quite thoroughly, and that is one of the reasons why the government has come to the Stortinget with a changed understanding that one is going to set conditions, for now only those people who are under 30 years of age are to be subject to conditions. This means that the central feature of the Centre Party is that when implementing such a shell requirement, municipalities must be able to implement it, at a time when it is very difficult – and much more difficult than before – to get labour-oriented measures for people with weak links to the labour market. The centre party is one of the foremost people to want to do this, and we have a number of changes to make it possible for both the municipalities and the private business concerned to give these people an opportunity to get into the world of work, and thus get away from the support that is so completely basic when one has no other income to live on. That is why, as has been said here in the past, considerable resources are required to enable municipalities to do this, and the 60 million. kr in increased appropriations for the municipalities to cover administrative work, i.e. about 150 000 kroner per municipality, is very modest in relation to the big task we are talking about here. So what is at the heart of the matter is that the central party is fully committed to the fact that there should be a requirement for an activity obligation, while at the same time assessing in each case what is the right thing for the individual. Because if you don't have a trust relationship between it and the public authorities, everyone knows that the result is going to be much worse. In that case, it must be possible for the public to offer something that is positive for the person in question, thereby making it positive to overshadow what is negative in the situation. I will end by addressing the proposal on which the Central Party and SV agree, which reads: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of its own case with an assessment of how a right to activity can be designed for beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ This is essential for us to get over the discussion that only goes on top – that one has to make demands, demands, demands – and that one can make a positive contribution to those people, so that they get into another life cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e944	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e949	It is the possibility and the right to receive help that could change this, and not the annual discussions on whipping against those who are disadvantaged. I have been working on this topic for many years. I have to say that for many years now the municipalities have not done their job according to the law, namely to help people who are without work and income into a better situation of life, preferably at work – someone is going to get into a social security benefit, and someone needs help over a longer period of time. It's in the law. It's been there a long time. Many have not received the help they are entitled to. But instead of whipping those municipalities that haven't done the job, you're whipping those who haven't been helped. I can pave the way from here up to the castle with reports showing that poverty does not lead to anything good. That leads to unhealthy things. That doesn't lead to people getting a job. What helps is that people have an income they can live on, and that they get help with their underlying problems. That's what all Nav reports show. There's no tendency to go to social security that inherits, it's the underlying problems, that are not solved. Therefore it is necessary to enable Nav and the municipalities to do this. And yes, it is true that the municipalities that have done this in a sense have succeeded well within the law of the day. So it's completely possible. It's just that it hasn't been done. SV is willing to spend money both on the hub and on several actions both in the Nav system and in the municipalities to get this done, because we think it works. But then it has to be done individually, with reason and so that it actually helps it, and not just becomes a kind of power demonstration in which to show people who are disadvantaged, that it should not be so easy here in the world. Being abducted and governed by others, who even sometimes talk bad about one, very rarely leads to change. At least it does not lead to a sense of work and joy. Now that we have shown that there is actually a lack of follow-up – and it also says Nav sail, that they have too many to deal with, they don't have enough money to do, people are going waiting for action – it's a little encouraging to see that that government has now granted after the long rounds it has been about this, is a sum that is very, very small. 200 kroner per person, so that they can fill the CV, which the representative from the right-hand side was up here and said instead, is well to do a little. It will probably have to be more bet on this from the government as well. I also want to mention the Pub project today, which I have been following for quite many years. The mob project imposes great demands on those involved. It's not a dear mother. But at the same time, there's someone standing by your side, following you when you're going to find your dream -- for many of these kids haven't dared to think that it's possible to be any of them, because no one has told them. There must be some adults there, standing by their side, who don't stick and hide when it starts to blow and it starts to get a little difficult, but who say, I'll follow you forward, all the way to your dream. Then we have to be able to set up with someone who does. It could be the mob project, there could be others who do it. And then it has to be possible to build on what you start on to complete what you have to do. Then I come to another point, and that's today's working life. Today’s work life is highly competence-intensive – not only on formal skills but also on social skills. If you're struggling with social anxiety, it's a little difficult to get pressured into a job where you're going to be in the front line of a service profession, for example. It's hard. It's usually going wrong, and then you get another negative experience in your body, which makes it difficult to succeed. We actually have to follow many of those who are struggling with lack of competence today, longer. Allow them to complete their competence on a public benefit. Then many more will be able to do well in life sail.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e964	The current legislative proposal covers changes in welfare legislation, mainly changes in the Social Services Act and the Social Security Act. The proposals concern, on the one hand, the necessary legislative changes resulting from proposals made in the 2017 State Budget and, on the other, some minor changes and clarifications. The proposal also includes some minor adjustments and legislative updates in several laws. As the government's draft budget shows, it is particularly important to help young people out of a passive life. Recent research shows that conditions of activity in particular have a good effect on young beneficiaries of social assistance. The Government therefore proposes that the Social Services Act introduce an obligation for municipalities to lay down initial conditions of activity for beneficiaries under 30 years of age. The aim is to strengthen the individual’s ability to get into work and become self-sufficient. It is therefore open to exceptions when it is not possible to impose requirements on activity and where activity does not promote the objective of self-driving. I note that the members of the Committee of the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party in the vote claim that the government is now proposing significant derogations compared to what was adopted by the Stortinget on 7 April 2015. I stress that the government has not proposed a further derogation, but clarified how it should be understood. Further amendments are proposed to the Law extending the right to interpret and accompany deaf blind people. The strengthening of deaf blind people’s right to interpret and accompany them will help deaf blind people to increase their chances of an active everyday life. The change implies that the public interest assumes some of the responsibilities of the municipalities for this group and an extension of the right to interpret and accompany leisure activities. Therefore, the tightening up carried out in 2012 is now being resolved. The legislative proposal also extends the pension scheme for escorts to foreign service agents to cohabitants, so that cohabitants and marriages are now treated as equal. In addition to the follow-up to the draft budget, the Government proposes some other changes to the Law on Social Security and other social security laws. However, members who otherwise do not fulfil the conditions for prior membership before they become pregnant may be entitled to disability benefits if they have previously had long-standing membership or a high record of social security. In the transition from disability pension to disability benefit, a linguistic change was made that resulted in an unintended effect by imposing stricter requirements on earnings for lone persons than for married persons/cohabitants. This is now being changed to ensure equal treatment. The Government would like to ensure equal treatment of the people’s benefits to be granted to persons living in institutions or prisons in and outside Norway. The legislative proposal includes some minor corrections and updates in the Swedish Social Security Act and statutory public occupational pension schemes. I am pleased that the proposals contribute to the government's commitment to young people who fall outside and people with disabilities, so that these groups are given an increased opportunity to be included in work and daily life, and I note that the majority of the Committee supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e988	In the past, there has been little interest from the Right in securing those who need social assistance, the right to follow up. That's it now, it's only in cases where you can swing the whip over those who are disadvantaged, you can resort to sanctions. My question to the Council of State is: What do you want to do with municipalities that do not follow this up, which do not offer a quality in the follow-up that makes you have an opportunity to succeed in this? I hope the Council of State agrees with me that there should not be some kind of senseless forced labour for social assistance we are now going to spend time, forces and money on. There must be arrangements to ensure that they really have a greater chance of either getting into a course of education or getting a foothold in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e996	Firstly, I would like to disagree entirely with the premise on the question from the representative, Andersen. The representative used the term "unhealthy" instead, and if that's what leads to unhealthyness, it's passivity and alienation. Right-wing engagement in the matter is just to prevent and reduce both passivity and extravagance, because we see that people's health is impaired by it. Now the municipalities are going to impose an activity obligation, I assume that the municipalities are going to follow it up. Then the supervisory authorities follow up the municipalities in their work. We've been concerned that the threshold for what's going to be activity will be a little up to the municipalities in meeting with the individual social client. The needs of social clients and young people are different, but for some, getting out of the door and to the social office itself will be a big enough task at an initial stage. They will need help to maybe fill out a CV or write a job application. For others, there may be completely different measures required. Then it is up to the municipalities, together with the client, to assess what is the right response for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1003	I record that the Council of State does not understand that being in poverty and not having money to cope with everyday life in itself leads to ill health. No one disagrees that if you have good health, being passive can lead to unhealthyness. Many of those in this situation already have additional problems, and getting poor never leads to anything good. To the last point, what the Council of State is describing is what is in today's law, there's no change in it. According to the law of the day, what the municipalities have to follow up with is quite extensive. That the Council of State says that she has not intended to follow up on how the quality of this arrangement is developing in the future is serious, especially when you see it in relation to the budget that has been presented. There are no increased means of response.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1010	Of course, we must follow up on the quality. My point is that it is a little up to the municipality and the individual social welfare beneficiary to assess what is the appropriate measure for the individual social welfare beneficiary. Social clients vary widely. For many, labour market measures may be appropriate. There is also a lot of money in the budget. Nav has more than enough money for action as it is now, and we are, of course, also prepared to grant more when necessary. Many municipalities do not follow up on their responsibilities today, we know that. There is also a background to the introduction of an obligation; municipalities must follow up young people under 30 years of age with relevant measures that get them out of their passivity and into activity. I have met many of the young people who are now experiencing the obligation of activity. I have not heard any complaints that this is being introduced. On the contrary, I perceive – at least from those I spoke to, and from the feedback given to the municipalities who do – that the young people are positive that they are now finally being seen and are receiving this follow-up as they have long wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1017	I want to ask the Council of State a question that concerns, insofar as it concerns the parts of the proposition that no one here mentions anything in particular today. These are those who are being penalised abroad and who have so far been able to take away social security benefits abroad because they have not been able to implement changes in the law. I want to ask the Council of State how many this applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1022	I don't have a number here. There are definitely numbers on it, but I don't have them on my feet, so I have to get back to that. Otherwise, I'll come back during the debate – I don't have it clear right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1027	It is quite an essential part of this proposition, and it is stated in the Ministry's assessment: ‘However, the Ministry has been made aware that the wording of the provisions on the reduction or loss of entitlement to benefits while staying in ‘institution under State responsibility’ and ‘institution under criminal law’ has allowed room for interpretation when staying in similar institutions or prisons abroad.’ Does the government's executive power seem to indicate that it has been allowed to go so long after sending prisoners to the Netherlands before they are apprehended in that kind of social security exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1036	Very familiar is not the number that the representative asked for, high. There are not many people who have sent out, and it is not long before you have had the opportunity to do so. The aim of the amendment is to treat them as zones in Norway, as zones outside. The background for this change is that you have to clean up a difference that was there before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1041	The issue of compulsory activity concerns the weakest, those who receive temporary social assistance. I'm recording that the Council of State says there's a great commitment from the Right to assist these people. Helping here will mean that it will cost money. So you're going to do a better job, and that means you have to have a bigger activity, which costs money. Social assistance is paid over local government budgets, and my question is, who is going to pay for this increased cost? Logically, since it is paid over the municipal budget, are the municipalities supposed to pay for the increased activity? Or is it that the state in the future sees it's going to pay a larger part of this activity because the municipalities can't do this job because it's so huge?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1046	A prerequisite for introducing the obligation of activity imposed by the Stortinget when dealing with this in 2015 was to engage in dialogue with the local government sector on the costs of introducing it. The government has. After this consultation, we agreed that implementation for young people under 30 will cost 60 million. kr, and that is what the government has laid down in its budgets. I assume that KS, once they agree with this sum, also agrees with that. In addition, there are other appropriations that we're making that are directed towards the same group. For example, now we're proposing $30 million. For young people under 30 who, after eight weeks, do not have a job or activity. As a matter of fact, the government is following up decisions in budgets. The local economy is better than in many years, our portfolio of measures is large, and there is also money left in the budget. I feel confident that the municipalities will be able to do this in a good way. They'll also be able to save money on it and get more out of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1055	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1062	It is an important issue to discuss here today – which has taken some time – the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients. When one hears part of the speeches from the opposition today, one should almost think that this is a kind of prison where one uses whips, it's a demonstration of power to the weakest, etc. That's not how the people who have been about this experience, too many municipalities that are doing this today, do it in a very good way. I have visited several of them myself, among others. Mountain outside Bergen, which has a structure called Possibility. The municipality of Bergen even has people working at work who have a similar arrangement. This is a completely different version from the one being produced, for example: by SV - here. An article on 12 March 2014 in the Official Journal of Bergen interviewed one of these participants. He says, ‘This has been totally sovereign to me. I dare not think of how it would have happened if Nav Fjell did not give me this chance, which led to me now working with an entrepreneur." For him this was not a whip; for him this was not a power demonstration; for him this was not a sort of stamping of him as a social receiver. For him, this was the way out of passivity, that someone made demands, that someone said, "You have to meet here at 5 p.m. 9 in the morning, we'll assist you; we'll help you, and the goal is for you to get into education or work and thus become self-sufficient. That's what you did in this case. He is deeply grateful that he got this opportunity. Then he goes on to say something else interesting: "To me, it's the dream place on Earth. Everything got better when I got here. I have little good to say about my relationship with Nav when I stayed in the East, now my attitude is quite different." The starting point was that he was in a municipality in the East where you didn't have this, where he didn't get any help, where he could go passively on social assistance without anyone taking hold of his situation. He has now come to a municipality that took care of this, and it was the rescue. That's exactly what you're doing with this bill, that you're saying you're going to have this in every municipality. Then there's one last quote I want to refer to finally: “If I had ended up on the Stortinget” – he might do it one day – “I would have no doubt from day one struggled to introduce measures such as the possibility across the country.” This was not just to be in the municipality he was, he wanted all the young people in that situation to have the opportunity that he had been given. And then he says, in the end: ‘It is incomprehensible that no more Nav offices are betting on similar projects.’ With the bill that lies here today, it is ensured that this will not only be in some selected municipalities and for those young people who are lucky and get it there, but that it will be in all the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1097	The representative Heggelund wondered if the Workers' Party was a little confused in his views on this matter. Then I must say that if the representative Heggelund had read the report on the basis of this matter here today, he might have understood something more about what the Workers' Party believes. We are therefore in favour of the obligation of activity, we trust that our municipal politicians will be able to find good measures, as the representative of Åland has now spoken. But in a situation where unemployment increases and we get more social welfare recipients, it is the measures that need to be taken, as we heard the representative from Åland, and not new legislation. So the Proba report says: ‘The Questionnaire suggests that 15600 more beneficiaries of social assistance will be transferred to state action after the entry into force of the new law. If one assumes a duration of these measures of 6 months, which we believe is realistic, this will require 7,800 new places’. And what does the government propose? Almost none. It goes on to say: ‘If the municipalities themselves have to establish equivalent measures, this will cost around NOK 15000 per participant month’; It'll be a total cost of 1.4 billion. kr. Where's the money, Heggelund? The same report says that if you're going to leave the municipalities to do this, the total cost will be about 0.5 billion. kr, and that the measures will last for a period of less than four months. Yeah, we think there's a need for more money. This is why we are significantly increasing the municipal framework, so that more municipalities can set up the right measures, and we are increasing the number of action areas in our budget so that more people can take action. If there is something that someone really ought to take self-criticism on here today, it is not that there are once again vacant places of action that are not used up this year. I have to say that it is one of the things that really surprises me – that the Council of State is unable to control Nav in such a way that we use up the places of action, in a situation where we have so many unemployed people and so many outside the labour market. So I would recommend the representative Heggelund to go through the economy in this and explain how he believes that municipalities are going to get the economy to set up the jobs that are absolutely necessary here if more people are going to get out of passive social assistance. The 60 million allocated are money for bureaucracy, and that's okay, we need bureaucracy, and we know that the Right Party government is good at increasing the number of bureaucrats, but there's a need for money for action here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1121	Yes, there is a need for money for action, there is a complete agreement with the Workers' Party. The reason I took the floor is that I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party – and also the Council of State – talk misleadingly in this matter. Those who have been given activity today experience it as positive, says the Council of State. Well, no one disagrees. That's what I said in my main post, and I've been saying for 20 years: those who do this in a sense within the law of the day get it done, and they succeed. So today's law is good in this area. The problem has been that it has not been followed up. The obligation of activity is now with the beneficiaries of social assistance, and it is the responsibility of the municipalities to offer such activity – as we are proposing today, and as the majority vote down. It's the activity that can get people into work and out of their difficult situation. So when Åmland of the Advance Party is up here talking about this young man he's met, who says that Nav gave him this chance – yes, that's exactly what the SV and the Workers' Party are proposing today, and the Center Party too. We suggest that it be a right to activity, while what you propose is an obligation for the disadvantaged. That's a big difference. Thus, the current law makes it possible for the Nav municipality to offer measures – also in cooperation with Nav state and others – and to a large extent they do so. Then it becomes so serious that there is not enough money either in the municipal framework, which I have a fairly good overview of, or in the Nav action framework to follow up those who could benefit from such measures. Because there's a good part of them that have absolute assumptions to be able to go into it, if there's someone there who has time to follow them up and figure out this, and that there's money for action to the others too, who need another kind of follow-up, that can be very varied. But it's very misleading when you later like these possibilities aren't there today, because they do. I am very concerned that the municipalities should follow up on this, but then it should have been the proposal that the minority is making today, which was adopted, because then you ensure that those who need a measure get it. It doesn't help to have a duty if it's not a meaningful measure to start on, and I want to repeat: I want to warn against sending people out on measures that don't have quality and function, for these are people who have enough challenges and have experienced enough defeat from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1134	It is not meant to prolong the debate, but as he has evolved, I thought to take the floor and say something anyway. The reality of what we're discussing here, we had a debate about in Stortinget almost two years ago, so there's a great need to have a debate now, I'm sorry to see. Sometimes, things where one really isn't so far from each other or so terriblely different, however, evolve to become big debates in this room, with a very ideological pathos about whips and the one and the other – not to mention that one deliberately misunderstands each other's positions, perhaps because one is looking at creating a line of conflict that one would like to be there. What the Storting made when a decision was taken was, in fact, to choose between what was the current situation, that one has no activity obligation, but knows the possibilities to impose it, and that one should have an activity obligation, but know the possibilities to make exceptions to it. That's what the Stortinget took a stand for. The extent to which this difference becomes practical, where in the individual municipality, one can discuss it. What I don't understand is that there's some particular disunity about, is that it's good that you have an activity offer, and that social welfare recipients who can take advantage of it get that possibility. I actually feel that all the party wins are good. Must be good. So I think everyone is going to admit – and that's actually an expression of this law – that making sure everyone gets that opportunity is a demanding job, both because it costs money, and because it requires competence in the individual municipality. Then I would like to add that this is another example of a case where I believe that many places in the country could make a lot of use of doing more together and being a larger municipality that can build skills to deliver just that type of services. Then there is someone who is very opposed to the Storting saying something about it, but who in no way frees himself from the fact that the Storting should go in and control the details and demand that things be done within today's municipalities. That's the way it is – it wasn't meant to start the big municipal conference debate, but from my point of view, I think it's good that people have the ability to get activity, and it's quite okay that there's a duty in the law that the municipalities should offer it, but it's clear that the individual municipality needs to build up competence and have resources to make sense of it. There is a job that does not solve one-two-three through law decisions. There is a job to do out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1145	I just have a little comment on some of the posts that have come. First to Rigmor Aasrud. What I was talking about as this youth was not primarily a labour market measure, but he got into it through this scheme, that is, the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients, which Mountain Municipality practises, and that was what became the salvation and help for him further. That leads me to a little bit of the point that part of the opposition is running on here, and that's that you have to bet on all the other things because there are other needs among these youths, and that's that. This is why the government has, for example, and reform it, and it has presented a drug plan, so there is no contradiction between doing things in other areas and meeting other needs and having an activity obligation for social welfare recipients. Many of these do not necessarily need labour market measures. They need some help looking for a job or finding out what training they are going to try to get on with. Then there is no state labour market measure that is the solution for them. Then maybe it's just, like one said here earlier in the debate, an adult person who can be there and help them with what kind of job they can apply for, with how to apply for a job, and thus give them a little push and help to get started with that process of their lives. You can do that, and it's done in a very good way through these schemes that these municipalities have, and it's a good idea to make it an obligation for other municipalities that don't do it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1154	Rigmor Aasrud says that if I just read the Proba report, I will understand the Workers' Party's position. I disagree with the insinuation that I am not going to be prepared for the debates we have in the Chamber, but there is in any case not the report that can explain the Labour Party's position on this matter. An Labour Party representative believes more in this matter than ten wise people are able to explain. There's talk of community economics. The municipalities have never had a better economy than now under this government, but the allocation we have to the obligation of activity is the result of the funding dialogue we've had with the municipalities, and it's a little surprising that the Workers' Party does not want to listen to it. And what is the alternative to that allocation? Well, that's the Workers' Party's clean cut – all the money gone. Activity and social assistance recipients are important, says the Workers' Party – they cut in that appropriation, as they also stand on the platform saying is too low. That doesn't make any sense. They don't listen to themselves, and they don't listen to the municipalities. And how dare the Labour Party to talk about the effectiveness of social policy? What were the results in Nav – we were a little bit into it when we discussed the Nav message – after eight years with the red-green government? Well, that after the greatest administrative reform in Norwegian history was implemented by the red-green government, there was about as good a time to help people get back to work, to education or to disability, for those who wanted it. The action system was just messy. This government has cleared up the failure of the Workers' Party to organise the action system. The representative, Karin Andersen, has stood on the pulpit and revealed SV. In her first post, she almost spoke as if she were a Right-Representative, talking nicely about giving activity to social welfare recipients, quoting even the Pub project, which otherwise supports the government's proposal to lower the threshold of working life through temporary employment. Maybe that's why at last it was only rhetorical representative Karin Andersen had left. Then she refers to her own suggestion: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of its own case with an assessment of how a right to activity can be designed for beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ But what is the point of promoting that proposal? We already know how to design this, and that's what the government is doing now, and that's what we're adopting here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1166	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1171	It's true that the municipalities are doing something like that right now. 36 pst. the increase in property taxes during the period of government of the Right Party and the Advance Party is proof that they have been able to obtain funds in other ways. But I would like to remind the representative, Heggelund, that we in the state budget are going to be 60 million. to the obligation of activity. We're going to swap that into 2 billion. kr more to the municipalities, we exchange it into 2,000 more action places, and we increase the payroll subsidy scheme by 50 million. kr. At the same time, we redispatch 125 million. kr from the AAP scheme, precisely because the young beneficiaries of social assistance – some of which come under the AAP scheme – should also be able to have activities. Unlike the government and the party of which Heggelund is a member, we are actually making changes to the AAP system. I've just heard the Right Talk about it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1178	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1183	The representative Heggelund from the Right is trying to spread more confusion by pretending that the proposal adopted today gives those in need of social assistance a right to activity. So it doesn't. This is an obligation for the recipient of social assistance, to receive something, something or other, which we hope of course is good. The law today gives the municipalities the opportunity to impose conditions, and those who have done so, in a sense, have succeeded. So then it's hard to understand why the government and the Right and the Advance Party today don't see that it would have been a much wiser way to go – to help the municipalities to ensure that both they and Nav had the resources to do this in a good way. That is what is rhetoric and politics in this: the bourgeois want to show that they are using whips against the poor. On the other hand, we know about the tax reliefs of the richest, so we see where the sympathy lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1208	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies after the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1217	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good work and cooperation in the matter. All the parties in this hall have a burning commitment to the country's pensioners, and it's good that you have this commitment. There is also some new work on this matter, for this is the first time that the Storting is dealing with such a matter, and in this form. It has progressed in parallel with the state budget, which in itself says something about the importance. It has also been a wish of several pensioners' organisations to have progress in parallel with the budget. The Committee is divided mainly between the parties to the cooperation and the opposition. Not least, there is mildly said special accusations against the undersigned and my party in the matter, which I also come back to a little. The issue – and the debate – is essentially about two things: one is how the Storting should deal with pension policy, purely technical. The second is about what should really be the essence of the matter: how the income development of the country's pensioners has been. Let me start with the development of income. Pensions have been adjusted according to the model on which the pension reconciliation was based. However, it is also the case that the pension agreement took little account of the fact that, in years of low income development in society, there could otherwise be a low or negative purchasing power development for pensioners. It's not just I who think this is unfortunate. Regardless of the model chosen for the pension scheme, there is also a discussion about other income to be included and should be included in the description of the economic development of pensioners. Perhaps here we see a debate on what comes first: the pensioners have increased other income than the pension because the pension is not perceived as good enough, or they would in any case have chosen upper income and thus lower pension income. The cooperation parties are at least clear that when describing the economic development of pensioners, all income must be included, in line with what we do in all other areas of society. It's going to be very special to take away individual elements that are actually present, when we're going to look at how income development has been. So briefly about how the settlements are treated. The pension agreement, which the Progress Party – as is known – was the only batch that was opposed, has a clear model of how pensions should be regulated. The conversion of Storting’s treatment of settlement is therefore a logical consequence of this model. Of course, I should have seen that we had a completely different model, but the Progress Party – and the undersigned – has to deal with what the majority in this Chamber wants. Today's treatment of settlement as we do is, in the majority's view, a good way to highlight pension settlement and the development of pensioners. So a few words about several of the claims directed at the Progress Party. Some even claim that the Progress Party is behind the pension reform. It is that we have a government that governs on the basis of the pension reform, and it is simply because we have taken on board that, as of today, there is no majority for a pension reform other than the one that the majority unfortunately decided. The Progress Party has been involved in strengthening the economy of pensioners in many areas. One is that the Progress Party and the government, together with our cooperation parties, have reduced the strongly unsocial shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. We see here, and we're also going to see it later this week when we're going to deal with the budget, that more people want, and in the past have also wanted, to increase the curtailment, i.e. you're going to get less in retirement just because you choose a form of living as a married person or a cohabitant. I'm glad the government has delivered in that area. We have provided targeted tax relief for the country's pensioners. We have also, together with our cooperation parties, provided increased pensions for lone minimum pensioners, not only this year, but we're also adding up to it for next year. So the Progress Party is on the pensioners' side and will continue to fight their case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1243	The representative, Wiborg, said in his statement that the transformation of the way in which the social security settlement is dealt with in Stortinget, by the fact that it is no longer dealt with in Stortinget, is a consequence of the pension reform. It was introduced with effect from 2011, so I wonder if Wiborg can explain to me why there is first a change on the part of this government by choosing not to put the social security bill before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1248	As the pension agreement and the pension reform make clear, developments are expected to be almost a purely mathematical calculation based on wage and price growth, but less the highly unsocial underregulation of 0.75 pst. As you know, there is an underregulation in which the Progress Party disagrees. Unfortunately, Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party choose to continue – and want to have – this underregulation. The progress party thinks it is wrong that pensioners should not have the same income development as the rest of society, but unfortunately we do not have a majority to change in the current period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1253	A slightly different page on the same theme. If I did not hear errors, the representative of Wiborg began his speech by saying that it is now the first time that the social security settlement is dealt with in parallel with the budget, and it has been a wish of several organisations. And then I wonder which.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1258	As you probably remember, there was a lot of debate about the change in when the settlement was to be dealt with. It is true that the primary wish of several of the organisations was that it should be dealt with in the spring. But it was also a wish that the Storting should be presented to the whole of the income development and also have the opportunity to make adjustments, if the Storting wishes. That's the possibility that Storting now has. And as it becomes clear, and we also see it from the message we are now dealing with, the country's pensioners have come out well of several of the changes this government has chosen to make with its cooperation parties, among others. When we reduce the unsocial curtailment, which means that married and cohabiting pensioners now get 8 000–9 000 kroner more in pension per year – that is a change the Labour Party was and is against – and not least the increase we have made for lone minimum pensioners, now twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1263	The representative Wiborg correctly describes that the situation is changing. What was right principles some years ago need not be principles into the future, because conditions in the Norwegian economy have changed. The pensioners are an important group who want to participate in the discussion on their terms and conditions, and therefore the representative Wiborg also uses the concept of retirementstopping. My question is: how does the representative, Wiborg, want to involve pensioners in the retirement stoppage in a way that gives both the opportunity and the responsibility for what the Stortinget will deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1268	It is quite right, as the representative Lundtigen points out, that there is a technical calculation today, it is not real negotiations, nor was it the intention when the Stortinget adopted the pension settlement. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, as Mr Lundtägen, knows very well, disagreed with this. We originally wanted to have another model, and the Progress Party, like all other parties, is also in a program process, and it's no secret that the Progress Party wants to give the pensioners real negotiating rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1273	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1279	As the message states, it concerns the regulation of pensions from 1 May 2016. Today we write December 12. Only now has the Storting settlement for treatment, more than seven months after the settlement was completed. It can hardly be called a real treatment. The next settlement is five months ahead. Therefore, today's case is not about the forthcoming settlement either. Pensioners’ organisations have said clearly and clearly from what they think about the new practice introduced by the government parties that the social security system is no longer going to the Stortinget. It is particularly important when for the second consecutive year, pensioners experience a negative impact. Earlier this year the government said it expected that it would also happen in 2017 and 2018, but now it seems that these forecasts have been adjusted. Nevertheless, it remains to be said that the Workers' Party believes that it is a strange procedure by the government that it decides unilaterally that the Stortinget should no longer be involved in the annual social security statements. In particular, it becomes strange in the light of the opinions of the former Progress Party Council on the Stortingen in the context of social security for 2015, where pensioners experienced a decline in the value of pensions for the first time after the pension reform. He was then very proud to ‘belong to a government that so clearly says that they will review the regulatory principles in good time before the next social security settlement’, i.e. the social security settlement for this year – 2016. And he didn't mind being proud of it – he went on to say: ‘I would say it so strongly that with this government – with the Advance Party in government – it is the first time you sit down and start going through the regulatory principles.’ It stayed with it. The government proposed no change. Storting never got any explanation as to why. The government only stopped presenting the settlements to the Storing. I suppose it must be allowed to call this a real gastric plaque, taking into account the high cigaretteing of the Progress Party Council last year. Before the summer, SV released a lifebuoy to the government, as they, with the support of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, put forward a proposal for a representative to resume previous practice of presenting the social security schemes to the Stortinget. The right hand side and the progress side didn't choose to arrest it. The working party believes that the social security scheme, which determines the income of about one million inhabitants, is so important that it should be addressed by the Stortinget. This is necessary, even in order to ensure that the right of discussion of organisations is effective. Where there are particular circumstances which should be taken into account, they should be submitted to the Stortinget. The opposition believes that negative real wage developments over time are such a special issue. It also meant the Progress Party last year, but not this year. The government's income development tables for pensioners show that it is important that the settlements continue to come to the Storting, and even more so with the Government's response to the SV, where the tables are elaborated. They show large differences in the income of the older population. Differences in income between men and women are even greater, and differences are increasing when we also take account of tax cuts: the answer to SV and the Government's response to a similar question from the Workers' Party in relation to the revised budget show that the tax cuts primarily benefit pensioners with the highest income. It is a fact that the government failed to describe, both in the revised budget and in today's communication. We had to ask that question. It has been strange to witness the curvature of the Progress Party in this matter. I have already mentioned the distance between words and action in relation to former State Council Robert Eriksson. The same applies to the Group of Advancers, with a secret group note that had one purpose: to conceal that the Party of Advancers had changed its position. They would no longer have the settlements of the Storting, but through some strange manoeuvres put the responsibility for it on other parties, among other things. by denying the management of the social security scheme by its own State Council. Finally, I would like to mention that in the Question Time on 16 November this year, I asked the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, whether she would like to change her budgetary practice, so that the settlements would come back to Stortinget. She chose to stay away and sent the Minister of Labour instead. We make a final attempt and take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV to get social security settled back to Stortinget from 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1303	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1310	I think the Storting might say that regardless of what kind of model you choose for a social security settlement, either backwards or forward in time, there are advantages and disadvantages to the models. I record that the Workers' Party is making a kind of political game of today's social security settlement. That is why I want some clarifications from the Workers' Party. Does the Workers' Party still agree that the pension agreement is a solid starting point for social security settlement, as the government believes? Will the Workers' Party continue to support what was their principle, precisely under-regulation of the pension of 0.75 p.m.? I register in 2016, as in 2015 and perhaps also in the 2017 budget, that the Workers' Party has not committed any appropriations to compensate for a real wage reduction for pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1317	Thank you for the questions. It is not a political game on the part of the Workers' Party. We stand for what we propose, and in fact believe that the social security settlement is so important that it has to go to Stortinget. Do we still agree with the pension agreement? Yes, of course we are. Have we ever expressed that we are not? After the pension reform was implemented, the red-green government presented the social security settlement to the Stortinget in the usual way. It can also be done by the government. If we still support the idea of underregulation of 0.75 pst.? We are occupied with being believers. We said that current pensions were to be regulated by an average of the salary and the price. We chose a technical solution. If it turns out that the technical solution over time gives a different result from what we promised, the Storting must have the opportunity to look at it. We haven't committed any appropriations now, no, and we've been honest with pensioners' organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1332	It was a useful clarification. So that means that the Workers' Party agrees with the government that the pension agreement is firm. The Labour Party supports what Jens Stoltenberg introduced in practice, precisely underregulation of pensions, which this government has compensated in a number of cases for in other ways – in the case of general tax reliefs, by increasing the pension for minimum pensioners both for 2016 and in the draft State budget for 2017, and by reducing the reduction for married and cohabiting pensioners. It's good to know that the Workers' Party says they admit, if that's what the wording was, that you don't have the money to do anything in the social security system. So we're back to my first question. It seems that this is a political game from the Workers' Party, where you do not have political realities, you do not have money, but you choose a discussion on whether a budget line should be at the top of the line or at your own permanent post on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1339	There'll be a lot of questions. I'll do my best to get through. It was a useful clarification, said the representative Kambe. The working party has never said anything else, so I guess he wouldn't have needed that clarification. We follow the Stoltenberg Government's plan to regulate current pensions. Yes, of course. It is not the Workers' Party that is opposed to its own government in this Chamber. We have always supported our own government. The model and principles chosen for the regulation of current pensions are about the generation accounts. If we were to continue without adding any kind of savings to future pensions, we would eventually have a generation of young people who would be completely devastated by a tax burden that no generations had seen before. Of course we are. That we don't have the money now to increase the social security bill, that's what I said: I was in a meeting with the National Government of the Pensioners' Association and said the same thing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1348	That's when the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1353	There is no guarantee that there will be more with us, but we want it to be for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1358	I must ask the representatives to respect the speaking time, both to ask and to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1363	Sorry, but there were so many questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1369	This will not allow for increased speech time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1374	It's approaching Christmas, so I'm going to give the representative Christoffersen another minute to answer. It was a particularly interesting line change between the representatives of Kambe and Christoffersen – the fact that the Workers' Party now admits that the Workers' Party does not want to grant a single ear more to the country's pensioners. But what the representative Christoffersen forgot to say was that the Workers' Party, over the last few years, wants to cut more of the country's pensioners, among other things. By reducing married and cohabiting pensioners by 15 p.m., which will mean – if the Workers Party is able to implement its policy – that married and cohabiting pensioners will get about. 9 000 kroner less in retirement. My question to the Workers' Party is: are they going to reverse the reduced curtailment that the government has carried out along with our supporting parties, thus imposing a reduction on the country's pensioners, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1383	Now I'm going to be very careful to answer on behalf of the Workers' Party a question that the Workers' Party has not assessed, but I would be very surprised if the Workers' Party had agreed to a reversal of it. Since I have some time left: the representative Wiborg said it was interesting that the Workers' Party now admits that we should not add to this year's social security bill. As far as I remember, the representative was Wiborg at the same meeting with the National Government of the Federation of Pensioners as I was, and the representative Wiborg heard that I said exactly the same thing there – that it is not stated that the Labour Party has something more in crowns, but we want to have social security settled for the Stortinget in the usual way, as the importance of the matter suggests. Finally, there are some pensioners who pay the price, but have not received anything. It's the lone pensioners who have so far above the minimum level. Maybe the Advance Party could think a little bit about them in the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1392	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1398	To take the last thing that Christoffersen spoke about, that's exactly what the government is doing to make proposals together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the state budget for 2017 and for 2016, where the minimum pension is increased by NOK 4000. There are benefits and disadvantages of social security provision. I think the President-in-Office will explain this in a good way. In the replacement with the Workers' Party, I think we found that the difference is not really large. In money, it does not even exist between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. That's pretty interesting to see. Thus, there is a difficult discussion about the timing of the social security settlement, while today – or in the past – we have the mixed item on the state budget. But there are a number of other budget lines that are similar to social security, as we know in advance when the government presents the state budget. It's estimated price rise, and it's estimated salary settlement in the country, municipality and private business. These are the two estimates that we use on everyone else, which are also the key estimates in the social security system. So it's really reasonable to say that it's still going to be at the top of the line, when everyone else has it at their own allocation point. Therefore, this becomes a reasonable technical discussion, which I do not think we would have had at all had it not been for so low wage growth and price rise, which in practice has contributed to a real wage reduction in the last two years – not a reduction, but a decrease. As the government says – and as the Workers' Party says – this is a scheme that was introduced after the pension agreement, which all parties on the Stortinget have subsequently stood behind. We have no desire for pensioners to stay longer behind than others over time. That is why the government has both presented a thorough case here today and has said that, together with the parliamentary leaders, we should discuss the situation to see if there are any adjustments to be made. It was a discussion that came last year, which was not followed up by the parties, because you saw that the early years served the pensioners on this one, and the next two years you've lost on it. Well, in total, you're really going to get a fairly similar outcome. We're really interested in seeing that in context. The representative of Wiborg is absolutely right. The pension reform has also contributed to the profitability of working alongside the pension. You can't exclude it as a fact when you're doing statistics for pensioners. In fact, very many people have received a relatively large tax advantage, and they do not receive pension benefits whether you are ill-satisfied or not. It's a huge growth that follows the line of work. In 2016, we decided to increase the minimum pension by $4,000 per minimum pensioner. We have also proposed a further increase in 2017 in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In addition, we have reduced the abbreviation for married/inhabitant pensioners in the 2016 budget. The sum of these, together with the other tax reliefs and reduced taxes on wealth, helps pensioners to make a fair deal in total. I think it is a straightforward clarification from the Workers' Party that all parties in this room today say that the pension agreement is firm. The Labour Party said that the underregulation was 0.75 pst. It's stuck. The Labour Party said that they have no budgetary resources – not in the year’s budget, and probably not in the next year’s budget – that differ from the way the government has provided social security funds. Then you are in a skin discussion that goes on when the Storting will insert the final allocation. The dry cleaning comes in May, as usual. The G is distributed by the Stortinget in May following previous negotiations between the government and the pensioners’ organisations. The matter's coming to Stortinget. The point is that as early as December – this week – the government and the Storting will decide what you think the G will be, and what you think the pay will be, and how the social security will be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1420	I noticed that the representative Kambe called today's discussion about social security and the processes around it a'skin discussion'. Then I have the following questions: Does the representative Kambe think that the organisations' demands for social security schemes to be made to the Storting is a completely unreasonable claim or a claim that in a way is not rooted in the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1425	They're coming to the Stortinget. The insurance settlement comes to Stortinget every year, and in connection with the presentation of the state budget, estimates are presented in the next year, i.e. now for 2017, and a look back, in 2016, on how it has gone. So Stortinget gets the social security bill for treatment. The amount may, in the context of the revised budget, be used to make proposals for changes to the social security scheme. It chose not to do so for 2016. There are no signs from the Workers' Party that they want to do so for 2017 either. And then you're back to a skin debate, because the Storting gets the matter processed, the Storing can change that, and there's no change either. Pensioners’ organisations normally negotiate with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs before submitting the proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1430	It is small curative when the representative Kambe from the Right speaks about political games and not in one word mentions the Government Party, which is in favour of and against and in all roles in this matter, and even today says that they are against – and then the representative Kambe goes to the pulpit and says that everyone is in favour of the principles of the pension agreement. I think he needs to be a little real-time orientated. The second is that he claims that all parties agree on the budget. No, SV has added 1.6 billion. NOK to the pensioners, where everyone – if we put it in the bottom, and we've been thinking about that – gets NOK 6400 each. In addition, our tax profile is so that the low-pension pensioners get more. So that's not true. But what I need to ask is the regulatory principle. How many years does the representative, Mr Kambe, think this should come to an end before the representative considers it reasonable to look at the regulatory principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1439	I think that the beginning of SV was good, because SV started the red-green government period by claiming that they were opposed to the intentions of the pension agreement and the pension reform, while for eight years, with the finance minister and others, they did everything they could to introduce the pension agreement and cut the minimum pensioners, and they helped to cut the pension for married and cohabitants, despite other things. The party to the progress has not voted in favour of other than the pension settlement during this major period. So one thing is what representatives say in different media, etc., but when you get into this room, you've been on the Sundvolden statement and contribute, for example. today also to round off the social security scheme in a fine manner. When it comes to how long to wait, I believe that the government is running, along with the parties at Stortinget, to figure out what it's like to increase the price, and it's decided every year in the social security scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1446	The representative, Mr Kambe, used the term ‘preliminary negotiations’. That is, negotiations between the parties, which are the state and the pensioners’ organisations. The representative of Wiborg said ‘real right to negotiate’. That's interesting. So, in the view of both government parties, it has to be negotiations. Those negotiations must then take place on the basis of the mandates given to the government by the Storting in the previous year, and the outcome of the negotiations must then be presented to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has the exclusive right to grant. It is natural for the Storting, when one gets it back, to come up with opinions on how it has been implemented, opinions that are important for next year's negotiations. Does the representative Kambe agree with what I said now, as a dynamic process in which the organisations are held responsible and come forward with their opinion, but that it is the Stortinge that decides, and it is the Stortinge that says what are the premises next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1452	It's quite obvious, it's the Storting that ultimately, as the granting authority, does this. That's what the Stortinget has always done – or, let me make it more precise, even never done, because the Stortinget has never adopted a social security settlement other than that the government has promoted for the Storinget, even if there were protocol notes under the Red-Green or this government, organizations that would vote against a social security settlement, or other things. As of today, the Storting has neither a bourgeois government nor a red-green opposition nor a red-green government and a bourgeois opposition voted against. This means that the right to negotiate is still present – it is very real. The majority will receive the treatment afterwards, and I believe the case of the state budget 2016 has never been more thorough for Stortinget to base a decision than the way we do it now, by putting it through the budget and further follow-up in the revised state budget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1462	Mr Wiborg said that there are two things we are now going to consider, and that is how income development has been for pensioners, and how the Storting is going to deal with the settlement in the future. I agree with that bilingual. Pensioners' income trends have been such that, as a result of increasingly different income in society, which is the basis of the pension, pension payments are also becoming increasingly different, and when one has in addition percentage supplements and these larger income differences, the starting point is that income differences are also increasing between pensioners. So it's improved a little bit by increasing the minimum pensions, which is very much appreciated by the Centrette, but the main features are that pensioners also get increased income differences. How the matter has been dealt with in Stortinget is part of the discussion. When it is said from the right hand side that the right to negotiate is very real, there is an opinion I hope Right can also present at the pensioners' meetings, so that you can get an assessment from them of the extent to which it is true or not. I think the pensioners' organizations today don't perceive the conversations that are, that go over very short periods of time, like real negotiations, that's at least very unknown to me, as I know negotiating institutes from parts of the working and business world. What is at the heart of the matter is that the pensioners' pensions are a fundamental question of distribution policy, and that this is the responsibility of the big society and the Biggest. In line with a well-organised social life, the view of the Centre Party must be that one should be more involved and responsible to the pensioners’ organisations by conducting real discussions between the State and the pensioners’ organisations. We do not see, as mentioned above, what is the conversation today, as real discussions, and discussions must be based on the Storting's will in the previous year's treatment of the retirement stoppage, and the retirement stoppage must be one year ahead – simple, predictable and good principles. The outcome of these discussions must be presented and treated as a matter of its own in the spring session. It makes sense that one treats it in the same way as the settlement that is otherwise, where the Storting and the State are not parties, so that we get a comprehensive treatment of what is the economic situation of different groups of society. We believe that the number material to be taken into account must correspond to what is used in the payroll. That is to the extent that there is no disagreement. Technical estimations provide the best estimates of the previous year's accounting figures and budgeted income and expense figures for different groups in the current year, i.e. it is essential to have a technical basis for calculation. The central party believes that the outcome of these discussions should be treated as a matter of its own in the spring session and financed by the external item of the government budget. It's a central thing that someone here has it all the time as a political assessment. That is why it is very natural for the Central Party to be part of the proposal that we have, namely that the Storting asks ‘the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security schemes as its own case for the Storting as from the social security settlement for 2017.’ So it's going to realize here that one has real negotiations, based on the previous year's treatment in the Storting, and then the Stortinget takes a position on that result, whether it's consensus or disagreement, and deals with it, and comes up with it with its clarification. What's central to the Center Party is that we're behind the pension agreement that's in place, we're behind the underregulation that is, but we also stand for a much stronger redistribution of pensions, because it's absolutely necessary to think forward in order for us to be able to maintain more equality between different people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1484	I agree with Mr Lundtegen that there should be real negotiations in the area of social security, and that is the case. So there might be different perceptions of whether a negotiation is real. It can depend on whether you get your will or not. Lundtigen said he had relatively good experience with and good knowledge of the negotiating institute in different segments of the working life. So do I. If you're going to look a little bit backwards, in the eight years of the red-green run-down Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which of the eight years changed the red-green government's social security plan after input from the pensioners' organizations? Did it happen? Which of those years followed the wishes of the red-green pensioners' organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1491	There was no one – it was no year that it was changed. What's important is that the Storting and the Biggest parties say from the year before what's the premise that next year's negotiations are going to take place, and that you're very clear about it. We have now been made clear here that both the Right Party and the Government Party want real negotiations. It's something quite different than what's going on today. Today, these conversations are over in a few hours – maybe one hour. It is not called negotiations in the field of business or employment. So now there must be real negotiations. That's pretty interesting. The result that one then comes to, is going to be presented to the Stortinget, and we get a real discussion here. It is essential to ensure that the different income ratios of pensioners arise and that those with the lowest income of the Centre's assessment receive the best pension settlement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1498	First, I fully agree with the last representative, Lundtigen, who said that it is they with the weakest economy that it is absolutely most important to help and strengthen. That's also why the government, together with our cooperation parties, has now made sure to give an extraordinary two-year in a row to lonely minimum pensioners, which I know was not happening under Lundtegen – with one exception. My question is about the abbreviation for married and cohabitant – a abbreviation supported by the Center Party, and a abbreviation that the Center Party has fought with beaks and claws to keep it there. In its time, the Central Party wanted the abbreviation to be 25 pst. The progress party has been negotiating it down for several years, and now it's down to 10 pst. My question is the same as I asked the Workers' Party: Is the Centre Party going to – and wants the Centre Party – to reverse this, thereby reducing the pension for married and cohabiting persons by 8 000–9 000 kroner?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1507	In the time I've been to the Storting, there's been a real boost for the minimum pensioners, and that was in 1996. In 1996, when the Central Party was in opposition, a force was put in place to improve the situation of the minimum pensioners, and we are proud of that. Councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, when she was Minister for Social Affairs, followed up the same policy – so redistribution is the core policy of the Centre Party. What is now the big question is: What can Norway afford to do in the future? There are so many increases in pension expenditure that one has to look more closely at the development of the total costs of pensioners. Then the need for redistribution is greater, when we are in a situation where we want to limit growth overall and ensure the lowest best. So the question of curtailment for cohabitants and lonely people. The centre party has no plans to change that, but we have voted clearly against doing what the Progress Party has done, because we have a more limited amount of money at our disposal than the Progress Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1516	Now the representative Lundtegen has gone heavily into what he thinks should have been the result of the social security decision. In the previous case, he went heavily into what he thought should have been the result of a paycheck. And before this year he also went quite heavily into what he thought ought to have been the result of the agricultural settlement, and voted well, as far as I think, against the entire declaration. My question is whether Lundtägen, on behalf of the Center Party, wants to do something about how the party looks at the division of labour between accumulation and government in the Norwegian model, which they talk so much about, and whether that view has changed a little after they came into opposition and no longer in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1523	We have a series of wage settlements and income settlements in society, and a lot of them are between two parties that are completely independent of the government. They go that way that it's between the private parties, to put it that way. Then we have settlements that are between private parties and the public, whether it's retirement, agricultural settlement or in the sense of what was the conflict with Specter and the Academics, where it was the state that owned the hospitals, which was the sponsor of Specter. In the cases where there is the State on the one hand and organisations on the other, the Storting must have an opinion on the content of the negotiations, both in terms of framework and distribution. This is something that is said the year before the negotiations are carried out. Then the Storting will decide on the result when it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1535	The main issue today must be whether the regulatory principles underlying pension settlement are as they should be. It's about future, but there's been a lot of strange story written here today, and I just have to go through it quickly. When the pension agreement first came into effect, there were two parties who did not vote for it, and it was SV and the Progress Party. When SV went into government, we accepted the pension agreement as it was, just as the Progress Party did – or we thought they did – but here there are an incredible number of strange crunches and a lot of political games. I also record that the memory is a little short when the committee leader doesn't even remember the retirement stop last year, where the Progress Party made proposals in the Stortinget that were not in line with what the government proposed. So accusing the opposition for political games now is pretty daring. I don't know what's stuck here, but there's maybe one thing in government, and there's at least something completely different in the Storting. So the back door of what we're discussing right now is the regulation of pensions, but that's also what happens to other things in society, like, for example. the tax policy, where the government's tax tables show that the richest, whether income, wealth, inheritance or pension, have been greatly relieved, while those with small incomes have hardly received anything. It's with that rug you also have to look at how the pensions are when there has been a decrease in real income for the pensioners for two years now – and the tables we've asked the government show us, show that it's assumed that this can also happen next year. I have been in this treatment for many years, and I can say with my heart that it was not intended to experience real pay cuts over many years for the pensioners. It was considered a small exception that was hardly thought possible. When that happens over and over again, SV wants us to discuss it. We believe it is completely unreasonable that the pensioners should experience it, especially when you see that this is about a mark-up that is calculated as a percentage. As I said, a percentage premium on a small income or pension is something quite different than a percentage premium on a high income or a high pension. That's the heads that we're living with, that's not these percentages. It is not the case — except for some honeymoon discounts — that pensioners get cheaper goods because they have received a lower tax burden than the other in society, which has a higher income base to calculate their income increase. That is the main question that the Storting should address in the future. We want the matter to come to Stortinget as it has done before, and at a more appropriate time than it is doing now. But the main problem today is that you have not been able to go through the regulatory principles as the State Council of the Progress Party promised Stortinget that you would. I don't know who stopped this in government. It is possible that the Right has stopped it, and the Advance Party has not added the knitting side to get this done. Then I also have to correct another error that has been said here, namely that nothing happened in this area while the red-green ones were sitting. Yes, there was a decision of principle when it came to escalating the minimum pension from approx. 1.8 G to 2 G, and it was done over multiple income statements, so you ended up with a minimum pension that is significantly higher than the one you originally had. So it's not easy to discuss retirement, it's one of the hardest things we do, because it's very complicated and big systems. But on the SV side, we want to say that the intention of being part of the changes that were made while we were in government was quite clear: when the regulatory principle turns out as it does today, we believe that we have to go through it. Then you have to compare what the pensioners with the lowest pension are left with in sum after both the social security scheme and the tax scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1553	There is no point in going into a big debate about who was in favour of and against the pension reform, but when much of the majority was adopted in 2011, SV and the representative Karin Andersen voted for. The party of progress voted against as it is known. I have had lines earlier today to the partners of SV – both the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Central Party in particular was clear that they have less money to spend on the country's pensions than the Advance Party and the government have. This is due, inter alia, to: the famed curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners that the government has reduced, resulting in an increase of nearly NOK 9 000 for a married or cohabiting pensioner couple. My question is: is SV going to be among those who want to reverse this, or are they now going to accept that the government and the Progress Party were right in that it is right to reduce unsocial abbreviations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1562	It won't happen. What's important for SV is that we can raise them with the lowest pension. It's not always those who are married and cohabiting. We also want a tax system in contrast to what the Progress Party has now done to implement, where we give huge tax relief to those who have incomes below NOK 700,000, and not large tax relief to those with high pensions and very high incomes and wealth, where the tax relief is in several $100,000 classes to people who should absolutely have enough to get the ends to meet from before. I record that this is what has been the lead priority of the Progress Party in the years in which they have been in government. It's giving tax relief to the richest – whether they're pensioners or others. It has gone ahead of most things that have been done. Now we see that in the tables we get over the distribution of income in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1569	First of all, the premise in the answer is completely wrong. Most of the efforts made by this government are to strengthen the country's infrastructure through the efforts of time on the road and rail. It is about strengthening hospitals and the health sector, which has resulted in a significant reduction in health cows. It's about us providing more than 1,000 new policemen, and that's how I could keep on and on. Yes, we are proud that we have reduced taxes and taxes for most people, and we are proud that we have reduced the tax on the country's pensioners. We think it's good. However, since SV is obviously mainly satisfied and believes it is right to shorten married and cohabiting pensioners with the reason that it is more reasonable to live together, my follow-up question is: are there other groups you want to introduce abbreviation for if they choose to be married or cohabited, for example. within the daily allowance, sickness allowance, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1578	I sometimes wonder if the wholesaler listens to what is being said. We have said that we are concerned because this regulatory principle for the second year – and it now looks like the third year – ends with a wage reduction. This way of counting when there are other aspects of wage and price developments in society will give pensioners a fairly good wage development, but not as it is now. Then we said that we have to look at that and change it. I also record that former Labour Minister from the Progress Party believed this, but that the current Minister of Labour does not think so. It has not been followed up. It has not been followed up by the Progress Party, and I have not heard the representative speak for it. So I think the representative should sort things out with his own government first and make sure they follow what the representative says.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1585	It's right as SV says, that they're the only party from the red-greens have money to do something about social security. It deserves to be commended. But that illustrates some of the points of the strange criticism that comes up against the model. It just shows that the Storting can. If the Storting wants to change the social security scheme, you have to show that it costs money, as SV has done. The SV's proposal voted against the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party in 2015, and also in 2016. It is interesting to hear what the representative Lundteg informed us, that eight red-green years resulted in that the real right to negotiate, which was claimed by the pensioners' organisations, brought zero changes to the government's offer, nor any changes to the Stortinget. In addition, the government has introduced tax reliefs of SEK 2.7 billion. kr to the pensioners, almost twice as much as SV now suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1594	I think hardly the representative Kambe has seen our tax bill, because if he had seen it, he would see that there are huge tax reliefs for everyone with incomes below NOK 700,000, unlike the government and his party are in favour. It is a little strange that the representative of the Right is able to avoid the fact that the Progress Party, who is in government and is a partner, is playing on all horses in this case and in this room – even now. It may not be so strange that opposition parties have different input into the budget, but it's worse that parties who sit in government play with different policies in government and in the State, as they do now. It's absolutely right that SV wants to increase for the pensioners. Our arrangement would be given approx. 6400 kroner for those with a minimum pension. We think that's a proper social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1603	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1608	In today's report, the government provides information on the year's regulation of pensions and the income ratio of pensioners. Part of the information corresponds to that of the previous budgetary proposals made in connection with social security settlements, including the minutes of the discussions with the organisations and statistical information. But the message also contains more information than what emerged from the previous propositions. The development of the total income ratio of pensioners in recent years and factors affecting them is now also explained in more detail. Furthermore, the current rules for the regulation of pensions and their background are mentioned. The increase has established clear rules on how pensions are regulated through broad pension agreements, and I would like to stress that the year’s social security settlement is fully implemented in line with these rules. The current rules on regulation also make it possible to take into account expenditure on pensions in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs already in the draft government budget. Therefore, when examining the 2016 government budget for last autumn, a budgetary change was adopted in which the estimated effect of the current year’s regulation of the basic amount and pensions was budgeted for relevant items in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In the past, these funds were budgeted for capped. 2309, Random expenditure, under the Ministry of Finance, to be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs budget through a separate proposal on supplementary appropriations in connection with social security provision. As a result of this conversion, where the estimated budgetary impact of the pension regulation had already been included in the State budget, there was no need for a separate budget proposal with proposals for additional appropriations for the social security settlement of the year. This budgetary conversion has no real impact on the implementation of the social security system itself. The size has the potential to deal with the development of the pensioners’ economy in the ordinary budgetary procedure and in the treatment of the revised national budget. It is in the budgets that the parties actually commit themselves by prioritising, and it was in this context that last autumn the government proposed to increase the basic pension for married and cohabiting persons, and where the Storting also decided to strengthen the economy of single minimum pensioners. With changed budgetary practices, the government did not wish to limit the involvement of the Storting in the social security settlement. Rather, the intention of the changeover was to have a more clear debate on pensioners’ income development by linking the discussion more directly to the treatment of the state budget, where priorities can also be followed by money through binding decisions in the Stortinget. It is through such a discussion about the state budget that the Christian People's Party, Left, the Advance Party and the Right also this year contribute an increase in the pension of the lone minimum pensioners of NOK 4000 from 1 September 2017. This underlines that it is precisely in the budgetary procedure that there can be agreement, if necessary, on measures that strengthen the economy of pensioners, in addition to those resulting from the ordinary regulation. I record that the question has nevertheless created commitment both in Stortinget and among the pensioners' organisations. I also see that it has been given the impression that the government should have agreed that the Storting should not be presented with the result of the social security settlement. That doesn't lead to correctness. There is no disagreement that information about such an important matter comes to Stortinget. That is also why the government has submitted the notification under consideration today. With this communication, the size is given detailed information on the pension regulation of the year. When we discuss the economy of pensioners, I think we should look not only at regulation in isolation, but at the whole of the economic situation of our pensioners. For this reason, the Communication also sets out developments in the overall income ratio of pensioners in recent years and factors affecting these developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1635	The Council of State stated that we now have a message about the social security scheme that contains a lot of useful information, and I will agree with that. My question concerns the following: What is it that prevents the government from providing such a message in the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1642	As I just said in my post, our starting point has been that we want to involve the Storting in the social security settlement, but we have thought that it is more appropriate to provide this information in the autumn, where the Storing can also deal with this with the state budget, where we also, after all, contribute money to what we are proposing. I think it's a little strange that this is going to be a discussion about when in the year we're going to discuss these questions. The most important thing must be that the Storting should be given the opportunity to discuss this and that this should also be done in relation to the budgets for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1649	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State had so much to say in its answer that the State budget is about a future settlement, and there is no invitation to the Stortinget to have any prior opinion on the social security settlement for 2017. But there's another thing I've noticed in the debate here today. The representative, Mr Kambe, has stressed on several occasions that there should be real negotiations in connection with the establishment of social security funds. Does this mean that the government has now changed its position regarding the right to negotiate with organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1656	The only difference before and now is that the money for the social security settlement is set in the Ministry of Labour's budget rather than in the external line of the Ministry of Finance. The social security proposals that Stortinget has dealt with each of us have done one thing in all, and that is to move money from one post to another, but all the time the Stortinget has decided by law how to regulate, it is easier to make that allocation immediately rather than waiting. The discussion institute is like it's always been. We're talking about calling meetings in the same way as before, and we're discussing just like before, so the only difference between before and now is that you no longer have to move money from one post to another, because the Stortinget has already decided in 2011 how to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1661	That was a clarifying answer. I then assume that there should be a real right of discussion, and that the government has not changed its position and decided to go in for the full right to negotiate, because that would have been contrary to the pension agreement. Then I have one last question. The government went high during the social security settlement in 2015 that it was finally with this government to look closely at the regulatory principles for current pensions for the first time. But what we have never received a response to is why the government, after its review, still chose not to make any changes. It could be interesting to know now. That is why, through this question, I give the Council of State the opportunity to inform the Storting about the content of the relatively important decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1668	It is right that the government reviewed the regulatory principles. We also invited the parliamentary leaders to a meeting at the Prime Minister's office on 18 March this year, where we reviewed how we had gone through this regulatory mechanism. We briefed pensioners' organisations in April about the same thing. We presented this – how we had gone through it – also in the revised national budget. The background for not wanting to make any changes now is that we are concerned that the pension system should be robust and predictable. It shall be sustainable. And at a time when there are major challenges in Norwegian working life, where our main industry is struggling, it is important that pensions are proportionate to that. We have informed the Storting about this, both through meetings that I have now explained, and also in the revised national budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1675	In the setting we are currently examining, see page 2: ‘After discussion of the numerical basis with the organisations, the King shall determine, on the basis of the Law on Social Security, the regulatory factors and rates for minimum pension levels.’ Further: «Participating in the deliberations, chaired by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs» means the pensioners’ organisations, etc. We have now been told that the representative, Mr Wiborg, is talking about real negotiating rights and that the representative, Mr Kambe, is talking about previous negotiations. As I said, which language you use is important. My question is therefore: Will the Council of State use the words ‘preliminary negotiations’ instead of ‘debate meetings’ about what will happen between the State and the organisations in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1690	Yes, I agree that words are important. As I said in my reply to the previous replicator, there is no change in reality in how the discussions are conducted now compared to before. Discussions are being held in exactly the same way now. Then there are many issues that pensioners are concerned about in the social security discussions. This year, it was naturally the underregulation that was the main theme – not so unnatural because it's the first time you've had a negative outcome. But it was e.g. the economic situation of lone minimum pensioners, which has been taken into account by the majority of the parties in the budget conciliation this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1697	That is not entirely correct, as this also happened in 2014. Then it was not this Council of State that was the Council of State. But this is two consecutive years, and the tables show that it's three consecutive years. Then I hear that when she is challenged by this, the Council of States starts using floss words like 'robust' and 'foreseeable' etc. But it is more about how many years the Council of State believes it is reasonable to end up with such a result for pensioners. Because it's the way for other people who work pay – and these are mostly older people who are not in paid employment – to be able to work overtime, or I don't know what, to improve their income. Then this is going to be a downward income for many pensioners, and we can end up where we were, that there is a large proportion of pensioners who are poor. We were able to do that when we were in government. If we don't reach the brakes, we can end up there again. How many years does the Council of State think this can take?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1704	What we see, and which is also evident from the message we now have to deal with, is that in today's regulation, the pensioners get better off than if you had based the average price and salary. Now we're in a situation where that's not the case, and as the representative said in his lineword exchange, maybe you didn't expect that. I also believe that no one had foreseen the oil report we are now facing, where more than 40,000 employees have lost their jobs in the oil and gas industry. We are now in an extraordinary situation, and that's what the regulation is also an expression of. Then there are the second, also political, decisions that can be taken to improve the economy of pensioners, which the majority parties, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have also shown, both the improvement of the economy of married and cohabiting pensioners, the economy of minimum pensioners and now also the economy of single minimum pensioners, as well as the tax relief – which shows that the pensioners get better out of it because of it than the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1717	This is the first time we have such a case for treatment that we now have for treatment. And I hope that's the last one. There is nothing in the pension agreement that we are still behind, which provides the basis for the new practice that there should not be a separate proposition, but at all say a separate case, to the Stortingen in connection with the social security settlement. The pretext for not having a proposition is that the government has chosen to budget the money in the department's budget rather than in the general budget, which was practice in the past. There is nothing in the pension agreement that warrants it. I also do not know that the government has contacted the parties to the agreement to clarify it. At least there is no reason, even if one makes the budgetary change, that one cannot present a separate case to the Stortinget. I hope the Council of State appreciates the fact that some parties are behind the pension reform. Now it looks like all the parties are doing it when they're in government, except for the government representatives in the Storing for the time being. But in reality, you can become quite insecure when you listen to the representative Kambe and his interpretations about the pension system and the right to negotiate. First, he claims that there were never any changes in the eight years of the previous government. After talking to the pensioners, who are called discussions, it did so in 2007 and 2008, as Karin Andersen specifically said in his main post. However, the representative will come back and ask the same question afterwards. So, in agreement with the pensioners, within the framework, there has been an adjustment of the minimum pensions. That's what we think should happen in real discussions. We are behind the pension agreement. But as part of the pension agreement, there should be real discussions when the framework is given, with all social security organisations, including pensioners. They have to be real. There's nothing in the agreement that warrants anything else. And so I can't see why the Council of State can't just give up and realize that the possibility of having a proper debate in the Grand Duchy on the living conditions of more than 1 million Northmen at the time when the matter is actually up, i.e. in connection with the social security settlement, and that the government can decide it unilaterally without even consulting the supporters they have in Stortinget to maintain the pension agreement as it was, means that the government has broken the pension agreement at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1726	I appreciated the introduction to Lise Christoffersen, because it gives me an opportunity to also clarify the difference between the right to negotiate and the right to discuss, where I fully agree that what has been the premise of any government has been the right to discuss. What has been my main point – and that of the government – has been that the real content of the changes we have made is only of budgetary nature and not reality – in other words that the system is the same. And it seems that the Storting today is reasonably unanimous about. In the hearing of the Labour and Social Committee on this matter, the pensioners' organisations, represented by the Pensioners' Association and Jan Davidsen, wanted real negotiations, not discussions. But the minority comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in the matter today is quite clear that you do not want real negotiations from the red-green side, which Jan Davidsen has mentioned. I understand that the Workers' Party is a little engaged today, because they have been undressed fairly easily, and perhaps most of them by SV. Because with all the rhetoric that the Workers' Party has had in this matter, including here in the Chamber, one would actually think that they had done something about it, but as the representative Lundteg made it clear: For eight red-green years, social security was not used for negotiations or for real discussions, in the sense that discussions lead to changing what the pensioners' organizations want. That's what Lundtegen said from Stortinget's pulpit. The fact that the Workers' Party once or twice increased the minimum pensions does not have to do with social security arrangements, because not all pensioners are the minimum pensioners. But the fact that the Workers' Party has voted against the reduction in shortening for married and cohabitants could have greater negative consequences. And now there is uncertainty about whether the Workers' Party is going to choose to increase the curtailment or keep today's legislation. I am glad that the council reminds me that the pension agreement is fixed, and then I fully agree with the representative Dag Terje Andersen that it looks as if two of the parties have different views on the pension agreement depending on whether you are inside or outside the government. The most important thing is what happens in the hall when you vote. There is no doubt that we now have a social security settlement that for the second consecutive year has a real wage decrease. Then we also have a system in place where, as the Council of State says, parliamentary leaders are consulted to look at the need for changes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1735	It's been a long time since I've been in a debate where it's been said so much that's not right. Point one: There is one party that plays differently in government and in the Stortinget, and it is the Advance Party, and it should be Right-wing address. They obviously don't dare, but they're still talking about the opposition on the Stortinget acting like seagoing parties. The jam was just supposed to be missing that they didn't do it. So it's that part of the social security settlement for two years was an escalation of the minimum pension, it was part of the negotiations, and it was all the pensioners on it. And we got it because we thought it was right to raise the minimum pensions up to 2 G. Some of us might want it to be higher too, but it was part of the discussion in front of the social security scheme. We decided to do that, and we did it over several years together with the pensioners' organizations. So it's directly wrong what the representative Kambe says up here. In addition, only the representative Kambe and the representative of the Progress Party have today used the term ‘negotiations’. No one else has. So it's also wrong – and a mistake that they're trying to push over to the opposition, as if there's someone in the opposition who said this. Finally, the Council of State refers to the fact that, in the interests of the oil industry and the oil price, the pensioners are the ones to accept a wage reduction. So that's a representative of the government that's spent 20 billion dollars. kr i taxlet – mostly for those who already have the most. You could afford that. It is probably the case that the one with the strongest back should carry the heaviest weight, even when it goes into counterheavy. This happens even when there is no economical basis – or economists – that supports this becoming the jobs that could have contributed to the economy, so that we could afford pensions. This I thought was a bad thing to hear – that's what's the reason. The question we now have to ask ourselves is: do we have a regulation system on pensions that leads to many pensioners gradually becoming poor, if development continues as it does? I record that the Progress Party and the Right clearly believe that it is okay that the richest should receive tax relief, that those who have millions, not to say billions, should get money without doing any of the world's things for it, while the pensioners should be the ones who bear the burden if there are difficult times in the country. I hope the pensioners remember this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1748	As far as I remember, what happened in 2007 and 2008 was that the negotiations between the state and the pensioners' organisations agreed on a solution. And what I said was that the solution that was then agreed, it was not changed in Stortinget. That was the core of what I was responding to. This is a position taken by the Stortinge, based on the results you're facing, based on what was discussed in the Stortinget year before. What happened to this position that we now have, and the year's treatment of it, was that there was a hearing where the pensioners' organisations wanted real negotiations. They were very clear about it. We have now come to the conclusion that the spokesman of the Progress Party is for real negotiations, and the spokesperson of the Right is in favour of what is called the previous negotiations. Both have used the term 'negotiations'. And negotiations are discussions, conversations about what's going to be a result that you'll agree on or not agree on. If you agree, the result is presented to the Storting as a consensus. If you don't agree, the state will present its vision, which the Storting will decide. It's the core of what's going on in what's in the note that the Central Party is in here at the end, that's what it has to be. And the Storting has a maritime responsibility to decide at any time on what is being presented, whether it is a unilateral proposal by the state, or it is a unified result of negotiations between the parties. That's the core of it, and I'm interested in hearing if any of the representatives of the government parties disagree that this is how the system works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1755	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1771	Since we're not in the presidency, we're going to explain that we're going to vote with the minority of the presidency, namely the Grand President Olemic Thommess and Vice President Ingerd Schou, to go against the second sentence of Section 16, first paragraph. But we also have a proposal – on a loose sheet – that we want to promote. I have received some requests that it may be possible to create a majority for it if it changes so that it becomes as follows: ‘The decision asks the Presidency to determine how capital income can be included in the system of curtailment, following Section 18 on ‘absence and curtailment of retirement benefits and post-employment benefits’, in line with other income.’ Thus, two words – ‘and propose’ – are deleted in the proposal, because what is needed is to be thoroughly investigated. It's possible to live on capital income, many do. For some of us, it may seem unreasonable not to include it in the income you may need to document, which should form the basis for obtaining such a remuneration or not. We believe that it is reasonable to do so. That is why we are promoting this proposal. But if it is possible to unite the majority to get an investigation, we would like to change the wording of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1785	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to – then with a modified wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1791	I would like to begin by commending the presidency for taking the initiative to simplify rules, laws and regulations that make the working conditions of the big business representatives more transparent to themselves – and also to the public. But the right is going to vote against the presidency's proposal on one of the points. In 2015, 2016 and beyond, we are experiencing an increasing unemployment rate in Norway. Some are lucky – working in solid companies and receiving termination benefits, or they can get final packages. Many — fortunately most — are back in normal working life three–six months, on average, after they became unemployed. So you're back in work. However, if you are unlucky and go beyond the six months, you have a good offer in the welfare state of Norway in two years with daily allowance. This applies to all residents in Norway, including withdrawals of wholesalers. The main challenge in today’s labour market has been unskilled young people and migrants with poor Norwegian skills on the one hand – similar to those in the late 1950s and mid-60s who are now unemployed. I see that the presidency has a concern for the depositors who are in that category. I have a great deal of understanding for that. However, we need to be careful: the size of the population adopts changes in day-to-day and post-paid legislation on behalf of the nation of Norway. Then the same big thing must not say that just for us there must be so many other arrangements. With respect to reporting: It is not easy for a 59- or 60-year-old who loses his job in Haugesund, Stavanger or Kristiansand today, with two years of daily pay, while at the end of the down payment period, the condition for a deposit agent – first – is that three months can be paid. So – if you still have not got a job – you can go on a special scheme that gives you a year’s pay after work, for another year. And then – if you still have not come to work – you can get a daily allowance. So for a big-time representative, it's not two years of day money – it's only three months of full pay, then it's twelve months of 66 pst. remuneration. Now the majority of the Biggest – minus Right and SV – want these two thirds to be valid for two years, while the back carpet in Rogaland, where I come from now, is that I am being called down by people who are starting to approach 104 weeks without a job. The rule that a unanimous decision has been made is that if you don't have a job after 104 weeks, you fall out of the day-to-day pay system. I see that there may be some reasons why a wholesaler can have a better order, simply because we have a position corresponding to an annual target position. You don't know if you're being re-elected or elected until late in the period. Someone will experience it on election day. Others who have the kind of position are likely to have compensation for their salaries, have compensation for their leave, pay after-sales allowances or guaranteed post-employment. It doesn't have a staging representative. That is why I can help keep today's legislation, with a one-year follow-up payment scheme and two-thirds of the compensation, without any supplement. But that the presidency should have the opportunity to increase it, in exceptional cases, to a further year, with the backbone we have in Norwegian society today, with increasing unemployment, that – what we should believe – a 59-year-old depositor has it worse than a 59-year-old just unemployed in the West. No, it's the opposite. Yes, it's human aspects of this, but it's also for the others who don't get the ordinary Nav performances. By maintaining the current system, a Trustee representative will have it for one year and three months longer than any other employee. It's a more than good enough system, and it's a system that we big-time representatives know about when we apply for the Stortinget and are elected to the Stortinget. There's a risk you're willing to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1807	I believe that we should have a regulation for big business representatives that is fair and that is good – but not so good that it is contrary to people's legal perception of how we should actually feel. It won't be good for the Storting as a whole. That is why it is the argument that today the Right is voting against the majority’s proposal for a decision – together with the SV – and that we want to maintain today’s regime. Otherwise, we give commendation to the presidency for the cleanup that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1810	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Kambe's rose in the area where the presidency was praised. Today, the Presidency is tabling a new law on wholesale compensation. With the exception of the proposal for amendments to the rules on remuneration in Section 16 promoted by the majority of the Presidency, the nomination of the Presidency is unanimous. The majority of the presidency sees a need to provide a somewhat greater degree of discretion in the post-paid assessments and, in exceptional cases, to be able to obtain a post-paid salary for a period of up to 24 months. It is clarified that the clear general rule for the granting of arrears is to continue to be given for up to 12 months. The adjustment of the post-paid scheme is intended to be a narrow rule of exception, and in any case the scheme will not give the beneficiaries a legal requirement for the benefit, since a detailed, concrete assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis. The majority of the Presidency underlines that what is to be considered as a specific case where the post-paid period can be extended must be assessed on the basis of the representative’s real ability to return to the labour market at the end of the Grand Duchy’s period. The exemption rule is intended to address representatives who face major challenges in returning to work, for example: because they no longer have the up-to-date competence to return to work similar to that they had before being elected to the Stortinget. This group will need a slightly longer period of pay because the transition period to return to work may be longer. In assessing whether the situation of the representative is considered to be a specific case, points such as the length of time the applicant has been elected to the Stortinget, whether the applicant is no longer professionally up-to-date and in need of conversion in the previous profession, and whether the applicant intends to leave or to ‘fall’ out of the Stortinget will be of importance. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1823	Let me first point out that we are prepared to support – at least from the Labour Party, and there is reason to believe that there are several – the submitted proposal from SV, which has now changed somewhat. Let me also from the Chair here suggest that there may be a basis for this proposal, when it is sent to the Presidency, to be included as part of the work now being done in the Regulatory Committee set up by the Presidency. They're going to give the spring party the setting, which is going up in Stortinget. We are therefore considering this proposal for an investigation into that subcommittee of the Presidency. When it comes to the question of remuneration, let me, like the representative Kenneth Svendsen, stress as strongly as I can that the general rule is still that you can get a refund for up to one year. As this has been practised in recent years, there is an unusual stringency in following the ex-representatives who receive remuneration, almost from month to month. There have been people here to give them guidance on career selection and education, and I would like to stress that it's strict, and that's tight. What is now being presented is that you can expand exceptionally – I had almost said from month to month, not that you get two years as a general rule, but that you can expand it by following a person quite strictly and thoroughly. These will be individual cases. You can, for example: be between 60 and 62 years of age and have serious difficulties in obtaining income and work. If we go back a few years, it was also the case that large-scale representatives did not have access to unemployment benefits, and then we simply had to make a special law, because we could not automatically be covered by popular rights, because we, as large-scale representatives, have compensation and not pay. What we're proposing here will concern a few unusually few people, but in some cases there may be a need for us to take care of someone who goes out of here after a long and faithful service, and who has great problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1832	I'm very happy if our proposal can be accepted and we get it figured out, because that's fair. But when it comes to the arrangement for those who either fall out of the Storting and are not re-elected, or who stop and do not come into work, I do not think that this house, which decides what kind of rules others who lose their jobs should be subject to, should create rules that should be different for us than for them. I think we have to adopt rules we can live by sea. If we can't live by the rules that are for the others, we have to change those rules. It's conversion in other companies, it's enterprises that are being closed down, and the jam also has employees over 60 years, over 62 years and over 65 years. It is not much easier for them to acquire neither income nor new skills to get into a new job. I believe that it is quite simply not to have arrangements for us that are better than for others. I know that there are some people who may have problems, but it also applies to others in the workplace, other parts of the world of work, and that it should be different for big business representatives than for someone who loses his job, whether it's in industry, or whether it's yes, anywhere, it's completely impossible to understand. It is absolutely impossible for me to understand that the Progress Party can at least go in for it. I think it's completely strange. So I had hoped that the Storting could rely on the principle that the arrangements we adopt for others, must also be able to live with the magnification representatives who come in a similar situation, and therefore we will vote against the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9, 10 and 11, which are the second time legal proceedings concerning Acts 24, 25 and 26, are dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1879	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 9-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1898	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Law 13 June 1969 No. 25 on trust societies and the second paragraph of Section 19, first paragraph, third and fourth and fifth sentences shall be replaced by the following: The privileges that come as a result of the loss of the services and obligations of the priests shall not be taken into account in the supplemental basis. Permissions to equity in the creation of the Norwegian Church shall also not be included in the add-on basis. The interest advantage on the return on equity shall be included in the calculation basis. II Law of 12 June 1981 No. 64 on the addition of Section 2 of the second paragraph of Section 2 to life-vision society shall be replaced by the following: The privileges that come as a result of the loss of the services and obligations of the priests shall not be taken into account in the supplemental basis. Permissions to equity in the creation of the Norwegian Church shall also not be included in the add-on basis. The interest advantage on the return on equity shall be included in the calculation basis. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1960	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1965	Would you have voted for the vote? Then why didn't you? [[Laughter]] In that case, the number of votes shall be 79 for the nomination of the Committee and 13 for the proposal of the Central Party. Thus, the setting is biased. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1979	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e1988	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the introduction of a right and obligation to continue training for teachers and return to the Storting in the spring of 2017 with what this will entail, including the economic and administrative consequences that need to be considered’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2027	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2039	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2053	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2058	Would you have voted for the vote? And then we're going to correct it, and the number of votes is going to be 85 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. The title of the law and the law as a whole are thus accepted. The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2100	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2110	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2119	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Mazyar Keshvari, on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to revise the introduction system to ensure adequate personal and level adaptation of the training and to allow all basic qualification to be included in the introduction programme’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2147	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Advance Party, says: ‘Law on amendments to the Introductory Act I [[introduction of test helmet]] In Law No 4 July 2003 80 on the introduction system and Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants are amended as follows: [[Introduction Act]] Paragraph 27 of Chapter 5 is added as follows: § 27 Experimental activities At the request of the municipality, the Ministry may approve exemptions from the law and regulations under the law in connection with time-limited pedagogical, organisational or financial trials. Current § 27 and § 28 become § 28 and new § 29. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment."
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2173	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2206	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2218	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2223	I did not vote! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2228	I remember that there is a voting obligation in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2233	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2239	Are there any others who have followed the conscience instead of the partisan here? Then I think we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2251	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2261	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2301	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2311	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2320	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of its own case with an assessment of how a right to activity can be designed for beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2559	It is votered over VI New Section 20a. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2573	It is vottered over other parts of VI and all other Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2583	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2593	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2602	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security schemes as a matter of its own to the Stortinget as from the social security settlement for 2017.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2637	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been adjusted by deleting the words ‘and proposing’ in the first line. Proposal No. 1, with the correction made, reads: ‘The decision asks the Presidency to determine how capital income can be included in the system of curtailment, following Section 18 on ‘absence and curtailment of retirement benefits and post-employment benefits’, in line with other income.’ Mr Schou has asked for the floor to be put to the vote and will receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2649	Once the proposal has been amended, I recommend that the Right vote in favour of the proposal. There is also reason to believe that the committee set up by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy to review the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure can include this in its work, and that if the proposal is approved here, we are done with the task of spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2654	Marit Nybakk – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2659	I would also recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party vote in favour of the SV's proposal, and refer to what Mr Schou just said. We have a Rules Committee set up by the Presidency, which goes through the Rules of Procedure, and which also includes, among other things, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification It would be natural, if this proposal were sent to the presidency for investigation, to let that committee look at it together with the other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2664	Kenneth Svendsen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2669	I would refer to the two previous speakers and recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2674	Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2679	It is similar to the Christian People's Party – we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2684	Marit Arnstad – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2689	The same applies to the Group of the Centre Party – that they are recommended to vote in favour of that proposal, as it has now been designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2695	Ola Elvestuen – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2700	With those amendments, I would also recommend the Left to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e2705	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 – with the correction made – from SV. It's a wish for everyone to press the for-button. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3011	The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 16 shall be deleted. The Right, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3025	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3030	Then we'll correct it. The number of votes shall be 64 votes in favour of the suspension of the presidency to the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 16 and 32 votes against. Thus, the setting is biased. It is votered over other parts of Section 16 and all other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3043	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3053	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3062	In the case of cases No. 9–11, are the second legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-12.ana.ud336e3120	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
