ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e28	There are two requests for leave: from the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold on leave from 4 November to 10 November and from the representative of Mr Torstein Tvedt Solberg on leave from 8 November to 10 November, both to take part as observers of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the presidential elections in the United States. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e59	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e64	On behalf of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen, Harald T. Nesvik, Ingjerd Schou, Michael Tetzschner, Frank J. Jensen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to allow the deletion of candidates in county and municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e69	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e85	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet on oral question time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e94	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. The Minister for Transport meets many critical voices a day for his performance project, the so-called railway reform. But at least some people are satisfied, and it's the consulting and consulting industry, which is now moaning millions of dollars into what's going on. We'll get a new directorate, the Railway Directorate. We get a new entity – in all simplicity the Railway Infrastructure Undertaking, which is to be shortened the Path NOR SF, and in order to avoid misunderstandings, I see that the Department is now using the term ‘Railway Infrastructure Undertaking Bane NOR SF’. The NSB split up, we get a new material company, we get a new maintenance company, we get a new ticketing company – with new directors, with new directors and associated board fees. This costs money – a lot of money – and it is also evident from the State budget. If we add up what is in the state budget and what is now happening in the NSB, it will probably only be spent in 2017 in the order of 500 million. kr – I repeat: 500 million. kr – only in direct costs of railway reform, and before the reform has entered into force. So my question is simply: can the Minister for Transport explain what the railway reform costs to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e103	I'm very happy to talk about the railway reform. We need a better railway in this country, a railway that's on the way, that people trust, and that gets more goods out of the way. That's what's our main approach. For many years the maturity of the railway increased year by year, yes, under the Government of Sverre Myrlis the party increased by 1 billion. kr annually – that means that the railway was in a worse condition when the year ended than when it started. Our main priority was to get the infrastructure in order. That's why we've almost doubled the maintenance and renewal of the railway. Now we're improving the railway. We invest more than ever before, and we plan new rail tracks for larger areas and with more money than ever before. It becomes a better physical railway – we buy new material, we replace switches, etc. The second part of the railway operation and the railway reform is better organisation, and that's what Myrli here dislikes. However, after having seen problems that have existed for many years, for many decades, previous governments have chosen not to do anything about this – no, not since 1996 has one done anything significant about the railway. We don't create a lot of new things that never existed before, but what we do is we get a clearer division of responsibilities. Where one today has some responsibility in the NSB, a little bit in the Railway Agency, a little bit in the department and a little bit around, we make sure that we take the organisation that is in the NSB today, and create a separate company that has its own, slender organization, with a short distance from management to employees, so that they can work more effectively. So it seems that something has never appeared before, and I hear the representative Myrli say that. However, all these bodies exist today, but in a big mastodon called the NSB, where we will get slim, small organisations with clearer responsibilities, but where the state sits at the top and says how the railway will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e112	Now it is probably the intention of Stortinget's Question Time that the Stortinget should ask questions, and the members of the government should answer, preferably on what the Stortinget asks questions about. I asked a specific question. The Minister of Transport spoke about everything else. I understand that, because I've seen the organisational chart he's now presenting about how the railway looks -- it's not easy to hold your tongue straight in your mouth. But since he had trouble seeing the question, then, simply, once again, what does it cost to implement the railway reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e119	In the short term, it costs a little bit of money to reorganize, because you have to go through and look at what's not working, and how to solve the problems. That money I think it's worth spending, to sit and see that things don't work, but don't do anything about it, is the most expensive solution of all. Getting more efficiency, getting a slimmer organization means that it costs a little bit when a reorganizer, and we've put in the budget that it'll cost a few hundred million dollars, what we do, all in all. But just look what we already got from the NSB! NSB has said that because one also reorganizes the rail sector overall, the NSB can take away about 300 middle managers. That means, are there any authorities in any of the things that we're responsible for? Absolutely. But can people be removed from other parts of the railway sector? Yes, absolutely and in double. This means that one must not only look at the expenditure incurred in the State budget, but one must also look at the savings made by the railway sector actors, and then one comes out with a very good profit over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e126	It opens for follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e131	I will follow up on the question of railway costs, but I think it is in place first to point out that when the Council of State boasts about how to work on the rail track, it continues to lag from 2016 onwards in 2017, according to his own budget. On Monday, Bergen’s magazine wrote about the cost of creating a new tunnel in Ulriken, Bergen. They describe an estimate of exceedances of 1.5 billion. kr. For me, it is far beyond the cost framework that Stortinget has been informed about in the past. I have three questions for the Council of State in that context. How long has the Council of State been aware that the excess cost actually exists, and to what extent has it been? [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e140	I had three...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e145	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e150	I have informed the Storting as soon as that knowledge has come to my mind. This means that it is mentioned in the State budget as the Stortinget is now dealing with, that the cost framework is likely to be exceeded. Then we have also informed that we have started a normal process of quality assurance for external people to see us in the cards, so the Storting will be informed as soon as those numbers exist. However, the representative Sivertsen can also check in the 2016 budget. There was also information that suggested this. So the Storting hasn't been tricked in any way, even though the Workers' Party currently has a hobby of giving the impression that they don't know anything, but that information is in the collapse proposition. Then I will also mention, as the Sivertsen took it up in its introduction, that in both 2015, 2016 and 2017 the appropriations for the railway have nevertheless been so large that the maturity does not increase. 2015 was the year the Railway Agency itself said this is the first big maintenance year. After many years of increased decay under the red-greens, the decline was now reduced for the first time. I just remember that the 2017 budget, although slightly lower than in 2016, is still higher than in 2015, which was the big maintenance year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e158	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e163	The railway reform provides for rail to become a key element of the solution in the context of population growth and for the growth of freight transport to be achieved in a climate-friendly way. It is a pity that the Workers' Party has not realised this, but let us also be constructive and look forward to it. The Railway Communication stated that the route charge to be imposed had to be designed in a way that took into account the demanding situation of the freight industry. It even states in the notification that this charge will only ‘burden only to a limited extent on freight traffic’. Now the industry and all the environments involved in getting more goods from road to rail and sea are seriously concerned that the road tax will become a new charge that will reduce the volume of goods on the road. Can the Council confirm that goods by road are not subject to a road charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e172	It is important both for the government and for – as I have understood – those from whom we have the support of in Stortinget, that we do not impose new net costs on the railway. The road fare is a system in which we will give incentives that those who own the rails have a cost if they do not deliver capacity on the rails. I was at the Norwegian Railway Association's annual meeting two days ago. They themselves pointed out that when the trains are standing because the infrastructure is not working, it costs almost nothing for the railway station, which owns the rails, but it costs a lot for the NSB, which has the passengers, and for the CargoNet, which has the goods. By having a road tax where the NSB receives compensation from the Railway Agency, we have the financial incentive that we have lacked for the railway works to prioritise their maintenance a little differently, and not least the ups and downs. But I fully agree with the underlying in the question, that we are making sure that this is not a burden on freight traffic. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e179	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e184	The railway strike, which is now ongoing for the fourth week, is closely related to the government’s railway reform. The NSB confirmed in Dagsrevyen on Friday evening that they could not meet training requirements for drivers because it would weaken them in competition with other players when the railway becomes exposed to competition. And it's like you have to compete – either about the service of the travellers or about the working conditions of those who work on the railways. On the other hand, the locomotive has said that the strike is solved if a national regulation on education is adopted. There is reason to conclude that the strike is a result of the government’s railway reform and of the uncertainty it creates. The government also has the key to resolve the conflict. What will the country's Minister of Transport say to the thousands of people in the East who now have difficulties getting to work because of a long strike on the railways?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e191	I feel with the many thousands that are now being hit by the railway strike. I hope that the parties get back to the negotiating table – and that this time they will solve it. But that's not how security is something we're going to negotiate. It is rather that security should be something that you can negotiate in the wage settlement, where a driver says he likes to take on greater risks if he gets a higher salary. Safety is something that the authorities must ensure, there are rules that the authorities must lay down, and where we must have independent supervision to ensure that the actors deal with them. That's just the way the system is today. I expected that a party that had previously been in the Ministry of Transport knew, because in 2009 a regulation was introduced for drivers, the so-called driving regulations. That's where we have the legislation, which the supervision is going to follow. We have also said that we should give a guide to this driving code, just to be able to clarify the details if there is some uncertainty about today. Therefore, I hope that the parties can sit down and participate in that work, rather than stand and strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e200	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e205	The railway reform is good and good, and the Left believes, like the Council of State, that it can give us more paths for the money and a better offer for the travellers. And of course, you can imagine that Bane NOR spends half a million dollars on designing a new logo. At least I think there is reason to respect taxpayers' money in this reorganisation process. That the Labour Party is against is not surprising, all the time they have been against all the reorganisations of public transport in Oslo and Akershus, which have produced very good results. But no matter how much money you organize, it's like the seventh and the last thing that matters is how much money you're willing to put into the sector. Governments boast in their first responses of all that we've done when it comes to reducing maintenance, planning, etc. What is then a pity is that this trend is apparently not being followed up in the budget for next year, where there is no commitment to reducing maintenance and where there is little money for planning new projects. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e214	It is important that we organise the railway well. This is what we do in the railway reform – bringing together responsibilities, increased efficiency, clearer division of tasks. Then it's important that security is taken care of. There we have a clear regulatory framework today – I hope to be more clear in the media debate further – and we have a supervision that follows it closely. They're going to keep doing that. It is also important that the infrastructure operates, and that is priority No. 1 after safety work. There, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have made sure that there has been a strong growth. We are far ahead of the plans in the national transport plan. If we were to follow the Labour Party's schedule, we would have to cut the railway appropriations by many, many billion dollars in the year's budget. We're not going to do that. But we also have to look at how we spend the money. This applies not only to the sum of the money, but to how it is taken care of. I believe that the budget we have presented shows that there has been an additional growth, usually following negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party. But the budget we have submitted for 2017 is higher than what we agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party for 2016, and especially in terms of planning. There's a quarter of a billion dollars growing in relation to what we agreed on with the Left and Christian People's Party. [[The President cut off]] This government is delivering a lot of...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e219	That's it. Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e226	For most of us it is obvious that driving a train is not anything anyone can do. Errors and insanity can lead to insane damage to people and infrastructure. When people go on the train, they should be absolutely sure that he or she who runs it knows what they're doing, and they know what they're doing. Although the government is now implementing a harmful fragmentation of Norwegian infrastructure and rail, the competence of drivers must never be sacrificed. The government recently received a risk analysis of the commercialisation of the railway, and the report is clear. Without clearer requirements of competence, commercials will be able to create their own educations that are within today's unclear requirements, yet far worse than the standard we have today. How will the Council of State ensure that Norwegian rail is not insecure and will the Council of State as soon as possible ensure national competence requirements for drivers who are sufficiently clear and who at least maintain a level and requirements equivalent to those of the present system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e234	When you look at Norwegian railway today and at what the state has done in the last three years, there has never been any more financial effort to build and maintain the railway. There is clear evidence that today's majority prioritise the railway in a completely different way than before. It is wrong that we have a fragmentation and privatisation of the railway. In the future, the state will continue to own the rails, platforms, station buildings and train sets. We're going to control who's on the railway, we're going to control what offers you have on the railway, and we're going to subsidize the railway so that more people will have an offer that they want to use. It means a better railway than what we have today. It is a little strange that the red-greens saw that there were railway collapses, but did not increase the appropriations for maintenance. I have already mentioned that we already have a driving code that demands what drivers should be able to do, what kind of competence they should have. We have requirements for the training institutions on what to teach the drivers, and we have a supervision that follows. There is even a requirement that anyone working on the railway should be able to speak Norwegian, good Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e241	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e246	The Greens are far from convinced that breaking up the railway organisation is what we need today. What we need today is to concentrate the forces to develop the railway network. But the government's general commitment to rail is one of the things that the Greens are really satisfied with when compared to previous governments. There's been an escalation, that's good, it deserves the government's praise. So the question is, what is the purpose? This is not least justified as a climate action, and in a current state budget debate, where the question is which cut to come, and by what, where and when, it is very interesting that the Council of State can now clarify: what are the concrete climate effects that the government believes will come out of the railway reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e251	What is to come out of the rail reform is a better rail – better organised, lower costs, better provision for travellers. That's the last thing that's really important. We can have as many people employed on the railway as we want, but if we don't get people to use it, we haven't achieved anything. The railway is a transport tool, but it is also a way of building society, because when we build the routes, especially around Oslo, but also repair the railway, the track around Bergen and the Trønderbahn – in the four largest urban areas – it means that people get a better travel option than they have today. If we want fewer people sitting in a queue, it's not just a good idea to set up toll prices, because then you haven't got a better alternative, just a more expensive everyday life. If, on the other hand, we manage to make sure that cities get more money to develop public transport – and we have granted 4.8 billion. kr to the collective action reward scheme where the previous government granted SEK 1,8 billion. kr; so we have almost tripled it – if we get better buses and better trains, then people will voluntarily choose away the car, because then they can get a better everyday life instead of a more expensive and worse everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e256	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e261	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. By 2030 it will live approx. Three million inhabitants in the eight Eastern countries — an increase of almost 22 p.m., about half a million more people than today. In Eastfold, Akershus and Oslo there will be about two million inhabitants in 2040, towards less than half a million today. We're going to be half a million more inhabitants only in 25 years. Population growth is the main challenge for the whole of the central eastern region. In this region, a significant collective growth has been achieved in recent years, but according to the State Road Service, road traffic will also increase significantly if it is not seized. It shows that a change of course is necessary, not just for the region, but for achieving national targets on climate, transport, cultivated land and natural diversity. First of all, it's about prosperity. It's about people's everyday trips. It's about everyone going to and from work every day. If we don't dimension the transport system in line with the forecasts, it just gets too tight about the place. General economic growth, increased car maintenance and increased commuting will increase the pressure on the transport system. Then we have to bet on both road, collective and not least planning new projects – and the key is the train. The intercity bet will provide passengers with a better train offer with shorter travel times and several departures. The intercity deployment and deployment of double rail tracks in the densely populated areas shall contribute to meeting the transport needs of the future in a climate-friendly and customer-friendly way. The intercity sections between Oslo and Hamar and Tønsberg and Fredrikstad shall be completed by 2024. The extension shall be continued to Lillehammer, Skien and Halden in 2030. Can the Council of State guarantee that the timetable for intercity development is maintained as determined by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e274	When it comes to timetables, I can make it probable, but I can never give guarantees, because suddenly there is a mercury or a bad reason, which makes things that so neatly take longer. But the goal is always to be able to make good progress. There is also some reason why, in the budget submitted by the government for 2017, we have increased the appropriations for planning by around 250 million. kr. That means that a new railway should be planned for about 1,500 million. kr. Now, the amount in itself should not be what we're looking at, because it could mean that there are a lot of people sitting there doing unnecessary work, but rather we should simplify the systems under which they work. It's also an important part of the job I'm doing: simplifying the planning processes and not just hiring more consultants. In the budget we have presented, we have said that the most important thing and where we have the least swirling moon is where we are going to put the shovel in the ground in 2018. There we can't take any kind of rest or pause thinking. That's where we have to work purposefully to achieve it. Then there are new objectives in 2024, 2027 and 2030. There will always be a little more room for action, where one can give more gas later, if we work a little bit more on how one organizes it today. At other times, you can reduce that uncertainty by spending a lot more money today, but you'd like to find out that some of the investigations you did, didn't become entirely relevant yet when you put the shovel in the ground, and then one has to do things over again. So the longer before one puts the spade in the ground before one starts planning, the more possibilities it is that one actually has to do some of those things twice. Now, when one has seen that there's a cost increase in the estimates of the outer parcels of intercity, I'm a little bit more concerned that we have to see if there's anything to do with the costs and the way we organize the work, instead of just throwing more money at this. We'll do that work. I have seen that there are debates in some places where a fear that now everything stops. Then I just remind you that there is more money available now than ever before. We want, once the Storting has made its budgetary decisions, to sit down and work with the Railway Agency – we will also do that before the budgetary decisions are made – and to look at how the money is ultimately distributed, in order to ensure optimal progress on all sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e285	I thank you for your answer. In the government's draft budget for 2017, it has been revealed that, despite the increase in the planned funds, as the Council of State points out, to approx. SEK one and a half billion, there is no significant amount of planning for the continuation of internal and external intercity in order to maintain the pace for completion in 2024 and 2030. This means that planning work that has begun must be completed, according to the Railway Agency, and several hundred million dollars invested in planning can be wasted. The lack of planning resources in 2017 for Norway’s largest railway project has created so much uncertainty if the government will actually implement intercity in line with the current NTP, that there is reason to ask questions as to whether large parts of the project are being scrapped by the government. Can the State Council state that this is the case, and what will the State Council do to ensure that the project is carried out in line with adopted plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e294	As I just said, when we see that costs are increasing, I think it is important that we also look at what we can do on the organisation page to ensure that costs are kept under control. Today, Sandfjords Blade writes that more than 200 hired consultants may have to wait with their work if there is no more money. If there are already more than 200 external consultants contracted to the Railway Agency to plan a stretch where the spade is going to the ground in seven years' time, I think we might be spending our money a little wrong. So even though the Railway Agency says they would want them to get another hundred million dollars to do everything they've been thinking, the same way they did before, I think that exactly what comes out of information now indicates that we also have to go in and see if we're planning properly, or if this has become more a consultancy than a railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e299	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e304	As a daily intercityper with the Eastfold Railway, I can tell you that the train was precise, and the train was full. But in a hectic commuter everyday life, it is important that the train comes and goes when it needs to. Therefore, planning means are important, because it is important that we have planned intercity between Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and Halden and beyond in Europe. But planning means are not only important for intercity; it is also important for the interaction between road and rail. That's why it's important for the new Sarpebrua, and it's important for rv. 110, for Fv. 109 and also for urban development in Halden. So no one is against a better use of money, a more efficient use of money, as the council says. My question to the Council of State is nevertheless: Can the Council of State promise that it will roll a train into Halden station in 2030 on a new intercity train?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e312	As I mentioned, I can't give any guarantees, because we never know what comes up when you start digging, or when you plan, but we're working to put in place intercity in line with the decisions that Stortinget has made. At the same time, as I have also mentioned, I am concerned – when it may seem to me that we have some more consultants than I am comfortable with – that we deliver not only more money, but that we look at how we have organized ourselves. What is important in what I see as representative Hemdal is that we cannot spend time on it and thus delay it, for example. the road projects carried out by Vegvesen – the opportunities that Halden and many other cities have, and need, to drive urban development. Therefore, this is not a work I am going to spend a long time on. We have already called the Railway Agency to discuss this – even before a budget decision in Stortinget – because we need to make good progress. So all my intentions are good. I see that it has created uncertainty. I just want to remind you that, for example, So on the west fold path, where some locals give the impression that nothing is going to happen now, we're going to spend almost 1 billion dollars. kr on construction and have now completed a number of projects. There will be express trains on the Westfold Railway, and we will have freight trains on the Westfold Railway. These sections are by no means forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e323	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e328	There are budget hours at Stortinget, and the counties of the East are unisone in the feedback to Stortinget. The railway company’s local representatives say that there is not enough money in the budget for 2017 to continue the intercity planning with a view to completing double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien in 2030. On the basis of what the Minister for Transport is now saying, it seems that it is wrong. There is nothing better than that – if all the counties have misunderstood. The Minister of Transport says there's enough money, a lot of money, there's never been more money. My question is simply: is there enough money in the budget for 2017 to continue the planning that has taken place in 2015 and 2016, which is planned to continue in 2017 and 2018 and beyond on the external intercity sections until Lillehammer, Halden and Skien? Is there enough money in the budget, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e333	The budget proposes 250 million. kr more for 2017 than that granted in 2016. It will always be that different project managers would want them to have even more money to have even more pace. The final distribution of the different projects and the different parts of the projects we have to look at when we have first got a round of consulting and such things, and when we see what Storting has granted. Then we're going to have optimal progress. What's important to me is that we have guarantees that we'll get the spade in the ground in 2018, because there we have the least slingshot. The seven years ahead is a little bit more possible to deal with. I just want to remind you that regardless of whether you have people who think there could be more money needed, it's going to be almost 1,500 million. kr to plan Norwegian railway – only in 2017. In 2012, when the representative Myrlis party had government power, 46 million were granted. kr. So we have 30 times as much money to plan a new railway for than you had the year Sverre Myrlis parti presented the National Transport Plan. It testifies to who really bets... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e340	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e345	The government suggests using 1 billion. kr less on rail than the red-green government proposed in its last budget. We have still not electrified the Trønderbahn, and the budget that has been submitted is under-funding its start-up, and we have a number of projects on Bergensbanen and parts of intercity that should have been started, which are not. Railways are an important part of the collective service also outside the central eastern region. How will the Council of State ensure that the projects in the national transport plan, which have not been launched, are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e352	First, I did not fully understand the calculation – the claim from the Center Party that they granted 1 billion. kr more in the 2013 budget than what we propose granted to the railway in 2017. The quick summation I took shows that, on the contrary, it's 7 billion. kr more in the 2017 budget than in the 2013 budget. You could say it's a statement against a statement, but here it's really just looking for the budget papers, and we're going to get some clarity about it. So we've allocated around 4 billion. kr more to the railway in our four years than the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV thought was an offensive bet before they left. We have doubled the appropriations for maintenance and renewal – and so on. When the Senterpartiet crashed the country, the railway expired year after year. That was why former government councils had to stand on Oslo S and regret that things had collapsed. Now we're maintaining. We haven't fixed everything yet, because the maturity after many decades is very large, but the maturity now goes down where it went up before. I think that's evidence of a change of direction that you should be a little happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e359	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e364	Until this year, the government has followed up the agreement on the 2014 budget on an external intercity and double track investment for Lillehammer, Halden and Ski in an exemplary way, through both the construction of prepared routes and the allocation of funds for the planning of new routes. A lot goes so much in the interior, but for the part of the train the brakes are now on. In fact, there are doubts about the construction of Hamar, i.e. the internal intercity development, and for the journey from Hamar to Lillehammer – in fact, it is about the entire Dovrebahn up to Trondheim – there is now considerable uncertainty, as the council itself says, about whether we get there, and especially by 2030. Governments raise questions about how we plan. That's all right, but now the question is whether we actually want to, whether we want to weigh more than the railway. Can the Council of State guarantee that we'll be going to Lillehammer with double tracks by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e371	Until the Storting makes new decisions, we follow up the decisions that have been taken. Then there's going to be a national transport plan in Stortinget next summer. It will give new leads, which may confirm old leaders, reinforce them or change them. Therefore, I cannot guarantee what is going on in 2030, but I can say that we are working today in line with the decisions made by the Stortinget. Our goal is to get a railway that is more attractive than the one we have today, that more people voluntarily choose to travel by rail and thus take away the load on the roads, that we get more goods on the railway, so that those car trains that currently run miles by mile can rather use the railway in the future. But then we have to get a railway where one really doesn't just need new, but one needs to maintain what one has. What has been the main appeal point of the freight industry has not been the lack of double tracks, but it has been that trains are standing, that the signalling installations etc. not working, and there I believe that we have made a strong uplift far beyond what the others had planned in terms of maintenance, because the Left and Christian People's Party and the Right and the Advance Party have found together in the budgets three consecutive years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e378	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e384	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. The government's industrial policy is primarily not to have an industrial policy. Arrangements aimed at individual industries will be systematically cut, business policy will be neutralised. Norway has a significant industry and research devoted to space and space. These are forward-looking high-tech jobs. The Rome industry, translated for 7 bn. kr per year. Norway has a good starting point for developing this further. In order to trigger growth, there are two important things: Norway contributed to the voluntary programmes of the European Space Agency (ESA). This gives Norwegian companies, Norwegian industry, contracts and commissions. The Minister of Industry's answer to the industry is to propose a cut of 70 pst. participation in the programme by Norway. The second measure is national follow-up agents. They decide that the Norwegian space industry can participate in international competition. The Minister of Industry's answer is to propose to cut 40 pst. in these funds for next year. So for every penny the state puts in, the industry gets 5 kroner in return. Such a policy to build Norwegian industry and skills is similar to the Centre Party. Obviously, it does not do the Right and the Progress Party. Because there is no doubt: with an open eye, the government is laying down profitable high-tech jobs in Norway. It can be in Nammo, in the Kongsberg Group or in a number of businesses around the country. My question to the Minister of Industry is: Can the Minister of Industry explain why it is so important for her to reduce the Norwegian space industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e401	I am primarily concerned with industrial policy that works. Therefore, we dare to carry out quite thorough reviews of the means at our disposal, which is why it has now been seen that, following the analysis by the SSB, we have reduced thematic programmes and scaled up nationwide programmes. It's good business policy because it hits all industries across the country. Then I fully agree with the representative Pollestad that investing in space programmes and space research is important. We have a location and a topography that makes us particularly useful, and we have an important space industry. But it's like when we're going to make budgets, we're going to have to give priority. It's hard, it's demanding, but we have to do it. On the part of the government, priority is given to priority No. 1 has been meeting the situation we have in the South and Western countries in terms of measures over the last year, over the year and for the next year. The other is to help businesses make the necessary changes, and we do that by continuing the strong efforts we have on nationwide programmes that we know work and that hit all industries, including space industries. That's why we're using 1 billion. kr per year on space programmes. We are part of EGNOS, Galileo, Copernicus – major, important programmes for Norway. We also have accompanying agents, which have been proposed downgraded, simply because they have less benefits than other programmes do. And then the space industry can pick up funds from the nationwide programmes, similar to everyone else, and you can – not least – bring home much bigger contributions from Horizon. We have an industry that is too small to be able to bring home contributions from our European bet. It now uses a lot of resources to help the industry. We fully agree that this is important, but something else has been more important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e414	I would like to thank you for your answer. It's a little special to hear the Minister of Industry argue so strongly for this, and she makes as dramatic conclusions as a 70 pst. cut out the voluntary programmes in ESA and a 40 pst. Cut-off in the sequence media. So this is happening while the Storting is waiting for a space strategy, and the decision that's being drawn in the fall will have an effect for years to come. When it comes to the South and the West, it is precisely so that many companies that see that there are opportunities in space – these possibilities are displacing the government with this proposal. My question is again: does the Minister of Industry think this is a good proposal, or is it the Minister of Finance who has won this round?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e423	I take full responsibility for the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. I have been very clear that we have had to give priority, and the most important thing now is that people who have lost their jobs in the South and West are coming to work. It is also important that the industry throughout the country manages to make the necessary changes. So we see that these are programmes that work, that hit all industries across the country. We didn't spend adventurous years preparing for tougher times, we now see that we're vulnerable, and we have to go through a transformation. Then I believe that space travel is important. Let's use 1 billion. This year, and we also see that industry can draw funds from programmes other than those which are thematically linked to this industry. But these are tough priorities that we have to do, and then something is more important than anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e432	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e437	I must say, in truth, that there's a lot of weird about this cut. Now the Council of State says that we have to give priority, and then I recognize that we are giving priority to some of the things that are the most high-tech and sensible we are doing, among other things. the space industry. But at the same time, the budget says that a price is that part of the industry up and down. Then one chooses to cut, and one also warns that there may be future cuts in the industry. It's the one that's weird. The other thing that's weird is that a cutter in front of the broad strategy that you're going to get in the space industry, that could provide a basis for how the road is to be further designed. The State Secretary to the Council also acknowledges that the lower participation will give fewer contracts to Norwegian industry, and that the government with open eyes cuts in action, but they do not know what consequences it will actually have. The only thing they're trying to hide behind is that one puts it up against funds to the South and West. But these are also the means by which the supplier industry is very concerned, and the question is, What are the consequences? Has the government made any calculations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e446	In fact, we're going to attend as much next year as we do this year. There's no cut for next year. What we have announced is that participation in the ESA voluntary programme will be reduced from 2018. We've been clear and honest about that, and as I say, these are tough priorities. We now have to do something to counteract the emergency situation of unemployment, and then we do something to meet the need for industrial change across the country. We have also used quite a lot of power to have the SSB review our tool use in Innovation Norway and in the Research Council. It is the large, nationwide programmes that also hit the space industry, that best meet the objectives we have, and that is what we have been committed to. Then we're going to participate in ESA, we're still going to have a voice there, we're going to affect the programs, and we're going to have to return to those programs. And we can get back using other instruments, both in Norway and in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e453	Odd Omland - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e458	As we read the State budget, it is set to reduce Norway’s contribution to ESA’s voluntary programmes from a whole, so-called NNI share to a quarter, and in the hearing it was pointed out by several teams how much impact this would have on Norwegian space activities. NIFRO expressed that 70 pst. cut in the participation would also mean 70 pst. cut off from the industrial missions and that it could in the long term lead to the closure of Norwegian space activities. As early as 1 December, it is an important meeting of the ESA Council of Ministers. What will the government announce at this meeting regarding Norway's participation in the ESA voluntary programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e465	We want to announce what will be the decision of the Storting in the budget, and that is what we have invited the Stortinget to think about in the budget that has been presented. If you think that the space industry is shut down as a result of this, I think it's completely wrong. So we're going to bet over 1 billion. kr in the year, we are participating in all major, important programmes, and we are also going to participate in ESA, but for 2018 and the further four-year period, a lower participation is proposed than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e472	Pål Farstad - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e478	It is gratifying to be able to take up the thread from the previous Question Time on space research and space deployment, that we can also get the Minister of Industry's view on industrial and industrial development based on the programmes of the European Space Agency ESA. I have heard the answers from the Minister today and am not more reassured than I have been. I think there is good reason to point out that it is not good that uncertainty about Norwegian space betting is created year after year. A reduction in ESA investments and accruals will damage the opportunities for Norwegian industrial development and value creation – I stress industrial development and value creation – and will put us back, without any doubt. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e485	I've been clear that I think space betting is important, but I've also been clear and honest that right now there's something else that's even more important. When we spend 1 billion. kr this year, when we're on big, important programs for us, yes, of course, I believe that this is also an industry that is going to be important to us in the future. This industry can draw funds from the nationwide programmes we have and can even more fully bring back programmes from the EU. We also have difficulties in establishing, or at least Menon has difficulties in establishing, that the accompanying funds provide sufficient social benefits. But participation in ESA does. That's why we're also going to continue our participation, but at a lower level than what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e492	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e497	We're a lot of people who are wondering what the idea is here. These cuts on 70 pst. for voluntary programmes in ESA, the industry itself expects to reduce the number of jobs in the industry by around 300 people. 300 highly technological additions will lose their jobs, according to the industry itself. What's special about this industry is not only that it's high-tech and has a high value creation for Norway, it's also perfectly adapted to technology and competence transfer from just the offshore industry to this industry. So instead of a cutter, one should be betting on this industry, through programs for ESA. But instead, the government knows how to cut into something that can be an absolute industry for the future, and that can certainly be an industry that can transfer technology and competence from the offshore industry. So my question is, what is the logic of the government to do this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e506	Yes, I can repeat that once again: when you have one pot of money, you have to spend it in the areas you think you have to give the highest priority. The most important thing now is to meet the situation in the south and west. We do that through a series of measures. The second important thing is to have programmes that hit industries across the country, that contribute to conversion, and that make us get through a technological development, a green script. There are a lot of demands on the industry now, and we know that these programs work. Then we're also going to bet on space policy. So let's do that using 1 billion. kr per year. You might want a bigger bet, but the pot of money is what it is, and then you have to take away something else that you think is more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e515	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e520	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. According to the Paris agreement, our commitments are to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. We want agreement with the EU on how to achieve this, and there is no doubt that a large part of the emissions cuts must come in the transport sector. New organisation is important. The left has been a driver for better organisation of public transport in Oslo and Akershus over the last 15 years, and it has been a great success. It is essential that rail reform is now given the necessary quality, but it is also about resources. The Council of State has previously stated in a Question Time that the agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties has given great increases to the railway sector and public transport in the previous years. It has been right and important and is also an important breakthrough for the Left. When we look at this year's budget, the government in its proposal cuts the public transport by approx. 300 million. kr and the 62.5 million walk and cycle path subsidy. kr. The task of resuming the maintenance seat run on the railway is stopped because the government cuts the railway maintenance by nearly 400 million. kr. At the same time, there are tax reductions for the traditional fossil cars of 900 million. kr. How does the Council of State feel that this draft budget is taking a major step towards achieving the 2030 climate objectives – the first year after the signing of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e529	I believe that in ten years' time we will see a car park that has much less emissions than today, not because we have made petrol cars insanely expensive and destroyed the private economy of the people most, but because the car factories have changed their strategies both for heavy cars, like buses and trucks, and also for passenger cars. We're seeing a technology development that makes battery costs go down dramatically. The batteries now cost approx. 70 pst. less than they did just a few years ago. We see a technology development where 4G technology allows things to communicate. We see a technology development that reduces the price of renewable energy, not only in Norway, which has a lot of resources, but also in those countries that have normally been fossil-based. And we see a technology development that makes sensors, radars, sonars and cameras go down in price. That makes us get a paradigm shift. We're really in the middle of it. Sitting around discussing the green shift as if you just have to do a little more to get rid of the horses and get rid of the mud — as in 1900 — is a kind of debate that some in Norway are doing. I think we need to see that there is now a paradigm shift in which industry and business, together with politicians, will give us the car where we used to have horses, and where we will get emission-free cars in the next round where we have emissions cars today. I have visited five of the largest car manufacturers in the world – GM, Chrysler, Ford, Daimler and BMW. Everyone confirms that they now have zero-emission vehicles as their main strategy. We were visiting MAN, who says that in just a few years they will have electric articulated buses ready for the market. They've already gotten rid of the hybrid bus from their portfolio, because they say it's not the future. It's fully electric. The railway is now being built more than ever before, and when you look at the municipal funds, it's true that we've gone down a little bit on the reward schemes, but in the underlying appropriations, for example. to Oslo, it's 400 million. kr more mainly because of collective effort in the framework transfers in the municipal area. So in sum, the bet is much stronger even though you could say there are variations in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e542	I have great respect for the belief of the Council of State, and I have been given the description of what the Council of State thinks will happen in the years to come. It's clear that if we're going to make the big change by 2030, that's 13 years plus a few more months, it's going to have to be a strong force for action to achieve the goals. The size has already – in the context of the Energy Communication – decided that almost all new cars will have zero emissions by 2020, all heavy transport will be fossil-free by 2030. It is then clear that the national transport plan, together with the budgets, can be crucial to achieve this. Does the Council of State see how he wants a concrete plan to achieve these goals in the future, so that we drive forward progress, have a leading role to achieve climate goals, and not just sit and wait, believe and hope that others take the big step?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e551	I believe Norway can be a leading country in the application of technology and in some areas the development of technology. We've shown that in the case of electric cars. There was a FrP agency in Oslo that was early out, but there has been a unanimous growth that has wanted to facilitate electric cars for a long time. Our majority have ensured that the benefits that one had actually decided to stop either in 2017 or when 50,000 cars were sold still persist. I think it is important to make sure that it is still attractive to buy an electric car in Norway. At the same time, I was glad when Elon Musk visited our conference in Oslo in April, that his vision is that during 2020 his electric cars from factory will be better and cheaper than the fossil cars from other factories. He says that because in the long term he cannot rely on subsidising his product. His product will compete and win because they are the best and the cheapest. That's why I think we're getting a huge drive from business. It's not an argument to end the tools we have, but it's an argument to see that it's going to be even stronger driving forces than the ones we're used to solving the challenges we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e558	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e564	When I hear the answer from the Minister for Transport, I seriously doubt whether he has taken on board his government's obligations to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. It's equivalent to cutting 800,000 tons a year, and 13 years is short in this context. Just to illustrate: there are as many emissions as traffic in Oslo as there are in Oslo, and it is going to decrease every single year. When you do not do a next year, it will be the next year. There may be a super-cheap, fantastic electric car model that competes out everyone else in 2022, but it won't be enough anyway. Is the message from this government to Romania, to China, to Germany, to ourselves, that now it's just to sit down and wait and let technology evolve, so it's going to be fine here, while the same government is going to turn up the annual cost of electric cars and reduce it on fossil cars? What is the government's plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e571	Now I didn't say we should sit still and do nothing, I said it was important that we still make it attractive to buy electric cars, that we stimulate it, and that Norway has shown through what we have done, that we have succeeded, and we shouldn't stop it now. At the same time, I claim that there is going to be much stronger drag help from the industry than what the Left has taken over, which means that we are going to get beyond what we thought. In fact, in the national transport plan, we already have to discuss what kind of infrastructure we are going to build, and how we are going to facilitate that more cars will be self-driving. In a few days I am going out to Fornebu to try a self-driving bus. Several have heard of it, and it has already been tried out there once. Now they're going to try it out to have it as a food delivery station. The fact that you now get a transport business that sees how you can use electricity means that one does more than what we thought before. Before we thought we had to have a ban on doing this, now we see that they're standing on the door and just knocking and saying, "We need a law." We are already in the process of facilitating that law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e578	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e583	The core here is, when are the emitters supposed to come? The latest SSB figures show that emissions are increasing. The question to the Council of State is: When will road traffic emissions begin to decline in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e588	I think one will see them even more clearly as the results of today's government policy come, because it's a little bit about that it's not all that makes one more electric car sold once again, so the emissions go down. If people drive more with the diesel cars they bought in the last government, that means that the emissions will go up from them, even though the electricity car share in the car park has increased. But precisely because today's majority – Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party – have ensured that we do not end the electric car benefits in 2017 or when 50,000 cars are sold, as the previous government had agreed, but on the contrary, they continue, and so we will increase the chances of emissions falling. The fact that we are now actually changing the legislation to make it easier to bring in the new types of cars, which are electric driven by the whole crowd – as Acando is doing with a small, self-driving bus – is going to revolutionize the collective effort. Along with the increased appropriations we have given, it means that it will be even more attractive to travel collectively, not because one does like the Oslo City Council and increases the tolls, but because one instead increases the offer. Give people a better offer, they'll choose the better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e595	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e600	Like the state council, I'm a technology optimist, and I think it's great to see that there's going to be self-driving cars, that new electric cars are going to be both cheaper and not least much better – where the range is 50 miles, and where it seems to be able to go in a direction where they'll be cheaper than fossil cars. At the same time, it is very important that we manage to pursue a policy that helps to speed up the switch to renewable cars, or at least as quickly as possible. The obligations we have are pretty tough, and the Council of State knows well that his sector, the transport sector, is the major sector that is going to get the most imposed, or is the sector where it has to happen most. That's why I'm impatient after the Council of State is even more offensive, that he's not just optimistic and looks at the evolution that's taking place, but he's making it happen as soon as possible. What are the instruments that the Council of State believes are needed? When we get to 2025, almost all of the cars that are sold are zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e607	What tools we need in 2025, I think we'll discuss as we get closer, because already at the car show in Paris GM showed up its new Opel/Chevrolet, which has a range far beyond today's electric cars. Today you have to buy a Tesla at 700000 – 800000 kroner to get the reach you will now be able to get from GM for about 300000 kroner. It says a little bit about the paradigm shift. Some of the electric cars that were on the market in 2012 cost NOK 250 000. Today you can buy the exact same Mitsubishi for 150,000 kroner. We have to take that into account in the overall use of the instrument. We're going to make sure that it's totally more attractive to buy an electric car than a petrol car, but we can't punish today's petrol owners who can't afford to switch to an electric car yet. Rather, we need to look at the means we can use to ensure that those who carry out urban freight transport use electric cars more quickly. Because now that technology is in place, I mean. What can we do to look at hydrogen trains on the routes you have today's diesel train? How are we going to make sure that the Wegvesen, which now initiates a hydrogen fermenting operation under our government, gets it escalated, and that we also get to order more elves than one has done before? It is a broad instrument perspective... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e616	Time's up, and we're moving on. Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e623	If we are to achieve the climate objectives, the transport sector must reduce its emissions. I'm sure that's why the government has submitted a green tax change where the Right and the Advance Party have proposed to increase the fuel tax by 31 cents and the diesel tax by 53 cents. In total, this is a huge cost to people and businesses, but it is a condition that climate action must have climate impact, and it is difficult to find them who think that this so-called green tax change presented by the government will give something special toe-capture. Then my question to the Council of State is whether he agrees that when a directive of the car list increases charges, it must be a premise that it actually gives reduced emissions as a monar. Or is he satisfied with just charging the fees without letting it go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e630	I think everyone who knows the history of the Progress Party knows that we want to reduce the total burden on the population. We have often criticised increased fees under both the red-green and other governments because the drivers have been used as dairy cows. Under today's government, we'll turn it around. The drivers now pay a total of less in fees than they did when Geir Pollestad sat as State Secretary in the government and the red-green crashed. However, we have changed the device so that it costs a little more to use the car – and the environmental impact comes in. But it costs a little less to own the car. This means that those living in the districts will not receive the punishment they would receive if a red-green policy were to be pursued with a massive increase in fuel taxes without a reduction in other areas. For those who live in the cities, it would be a little cheaper to have the car as the flexible thing you can need on weekends, or to drive with it, but when it comes to using a car in everyday life, public transport will actually appear to be a little more economically interesting because the use of the car has become a bit more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e636	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e641	Real technology optimists are using the technology. There are policies that make manufacturers produce more electric buses than before. There are policies that make us in Norway have the largest share of new electric cars sold anywhere in the world. Governments always use the picture with horses and cars, but government policy is to make the horses cheaper and the cars more expensive. Take the programme of the Progress Party. It says that the tax on new cars must be significantly reduced. So it is fossil car charges that have to significantly reduce – in other words, the horses in the Council of State – and that is exactly what they have done with the annual tax on cars this year as well. So the question is, does the Council really think that cheaper cars using fossil fuels are the way to go to make sure that we reach the goal of all new cars in 2025 being zero-emission cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e648	I think we're going to be there – not because the politicians decide neither one thing nor the other, but because we've now come to the technology shift where the battery technology has become so cheap that it's profitable for the factories. It sells 60–70–80 million cars worldwide. Norway has a market of between 100 000 and 150 000. There is not the car factory that manufactures products just because there is a market in Norway where they could get 10 pst. market share, but there is a world where car manufacturers have seen this with interest for a long time. After a cost-reduction of 60–70 p.t., it can be seen that there is a market not only in Norway but in many parts of the world. It is of course interesting to take those products to Norway, where they are sold first. But when you say they're leaving hybrid buses, it's because they say that now the cost of battery technology is so low that it's not cost equivalent to having both parts on board. Now the battery is working. And that's what we need to reinforce through instruments. It has already done today's majority, far beyond what Heikki Holmås did when the red-green fell.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e653	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e658	We're a seaman. It was the resources in the sea that pulled people here 20,000 years ago. It was the marine resources that built the country, which created opportunities and well-being for everyone. No matter how future Norway becomes, the sea will be centered. Two principles have been central to the management of the sea. The first is the general public, that no one owns the sea, it's to be owned together. The second is the right to fall, that closeness to the resources in the sea gives you the right to take care of it. This means that no private person can own the right to fall off the sea, and that no one far away can deny people on the outside of Senja to fall off the sea that is right outside the living window of theirira. These principles have been decisive for Norwegian growth and prosperity over thousands of years. This has been important when external actors have tried to gain control of our resources. It has been important when Norway has asserted sovereignty over our vast seas, and it has guaranteed fair distribution of resources, where no individual or company has made itself rich at the expense of others, it has benefited the marine people and the community. Today, these principles are enshrined in the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act, but we can draw a long tradition from Magnus Lagbøte's legislation to today. Nevertheless, the principle is challenged, both by all-man ownership and by the right of the home. So my question goes to Minister of Fisheries Sandberg: what does the Council of State do to ensure that these principles are followed and passed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e667	The representative refers to the Sea Resource Act, and it is firm. The resources of the sea are those of the community. That is also the government's policy. Much of this is now going to give us major reviews. We have major issues to deal with, both the quota committee – the Eidesen Committee – we have the Commission's report and a number of issues now, and there has never been such a big debate about Norwegian fisheries and the future to extract resources from the sea. The Participation Act is firm, but it's being challenged, it's quite right, especially in view of what's in the Commission's report. This is now under consideration, this is out of the question, and the representative and the Stortinget will have that debate later. We can go back to the 1940s and 1950s, which resulted in the construction of many industrial institutions, large fishing, along our coast. It was done after the war, in line with building up societies, few settlements – and security policy was inside the picture. It was then that one subsidized very much in this industry. These subsidies have now been removed and the result is that Norwegian fishing is reasonably good; Norwegian aquaculture is going well. This is how coastal fishing and the share of cod e.g. have been fairly stable since the 1970s and 1980s. I'm just as concerned that the resources will be left along our coast. It also turns out this year that there has never been more fish in North Norway than it is now. And I see that we are in a situation where we are going from ‘outsourcing’ to ‘homesourcing’, that the Norwegian seafood industry is now becoming competitive, and that we are also moving a lot of the processes home.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e676	My starting point was what has been the proud Norwegian traditions of the administration of the sea. And there are two key principles that have helped us to have a unique coastal culture in this country, a unique value creation along the whole coast, as opposed to very many other countries, which have followed a completely different line, which has led to coastal culture being degraded, and that the value creation has also gone down. The fact that these principles are being challenged today is easy to see: Fishing rights are being collected on fewer and fewer hands, and people are also effectively refused to participate in the closed fishing. Only in the course of the year that has passed, while the Minister for Fisheries has our Council, has a fishing quota that once cost an adventurous 1.4 million. SEK in Finnmark, increased to SEK 2.4 million. kr, one year later. It shuts out the coastal communities from participating in the fishing, and there are only a few actors left. Does this concern the Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e681	Fishing quotas have increased over a longer period of time, and you could say you're worried about it. But it's clear that it's a result of politics, and it's also producing results. No one has had higher income growth than Norwegian fishermen. Comparing Norwegian fishermen with land-based industries, for example, has resulted in a significantly higher income growth. Then it's like the industry's worn out. This is what has been the starting point for Meldning. St. 10 for 2015–2016, Marine Food Industry Communication. That's what the government focused on there, because if we're going to succeed in the future, we also need to strengthen industry's profitability. That is what needs to be done to create industry and growth in the districts. Unprofitable jobs do not create coastal security. However, profitable jobs will generate growth. I must say that as a fisheries minister as lucky as I am, I am allowed to travel around. Yesterday I was in Steigen and opened a tuna factory. I'm constantly being invited away to open different facilities along our coast now. So there's a significant optimism and positivity out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e688	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e693	The industry needs supplies. The Commission has recently made its recommendation on what the system should look like, and we know the intention behind the legislation. It has always been that trawls have to fish against delivering fish on land and contributing to activity in coastal communities. Now we see a hollowed-out code where coastal communities lose and the trawls make good money. The committee agrees with this analysis, but nevertheless it is on a proposal to give the trawlers 90 pst. of the value and coastal communities remain with a small tenth. Thus, a system is set up in which long-term Community resources and non-compliance with obligations are to be paid off. Then I wonder if the councils understand the coastal communities, who are now afraid that the shipowners will get 90 pst, while they themselves will be left with a score of 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e698	The conclusion of the report is that we must take off the trawls and give to the coastal communities. That's the conclusion. The report also concludes that different governments are the cause of the situation we face, including in the United Kingdom. the red-green government – and former governments. In fact, the report simply says that politicians have been incapacitated and have created a hollowed-out system. Then my starting point as Minister of Fisheries in 2016 is to provide something that we all agree on, to get something that works, and something that is predictable. All the politicians and all the political parties I'm talking to say the obligations don't work. That's my starting point. Now this is out at the hearing, so it's going to be totally wrong for me to put some kind of lead on it, but the intentions here are to move some of the resources back to the coastal communities, and there are different methods. I have also been in debate with SV. SV has been ashamed of what you have done before, and now I am going to try to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e706	Time's up! Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e713	To strengthen the industry we are all a few about, but then the industry must get fish. I would also like to remind you that when the Stoltenberg government took over in 2005, there were actually eternal quotas in place. We got that reversed and stopped. The supply obligation was converted into the duty of the Minister for Fisheries of the Right. The punctured universal service – it is also established by the Commission. On Monday, in the New York Times, the Council of State showed that local communities have difficulties during conversion, and he also pointed to the parallel between the situation in the West and what has to happen on the north coast due to the obligations. The West's problems come mainly from low oil prices. Why must Melbu and Stamsund prepare for a change when it has never before been so much fish in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e718	I did not point to exact local communities, but these communities that the representative points to have had challenges and challenges today because different governments have eroded a system that had the intention of creating growth and predictability along our coast. You haven't been able to do that. That's why, I think, the Storting asked me to put down a duty commission, which would look at all these duties coordinatedly. Now this duty commission has delivered its report. Then, of course, I register that someone has concluded before the report came. I just have to respect that, but my intention is still that both Melbu and other communities along our coast should have predictability and opportunities to get supplies of raw materials and grow. I'm optimistic enough to believe that if you come up with a solution in terms of both the obligations and the quota committee that will deliver their report, and a number of other things. In this context, I could also talk about infrastructure to boost profitability and growth along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e723	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e728	The main principles of Norwegian fisheries policy are that fishing resources should belong to the people, that the fisherman should be paid and that fishing resources should benefit coastal communities. I expect the Council of State to agree with these fundamental principles. But then we also know that increased processing creates increased value creation. Then is my question to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to facilitate the increased value creation of our beautiful fishing resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e733	I think we'll find that in common. Now we have a lot of big problems in front of us, and I think the government, together with the Storting, is going to find the solutions for that. So now it's going very well. It's record turnover in coastal fishing in the north, recruitment is going very well, the coastal fishing team and the Fiskerlag report that now it's going pretty well, we're setting new records all the time. There's never been any more fish in the north. The rights are a slightly different debate, to move the rights, but it was also in the 1940s and 1950s. Then there were some capitalists here in Oslo who made sure to build up and have ownership along our coast. But when it comes to processing, we're in a situation where we depend on our markets. I do not believe that we politicians should almost decide what products should look like, and the processing obligation imposed by the Workers' Party in its time has not at least led to the best, or to increase the profitability and competitiveness of the Norwegian seafood industry. I think that if we look at all of these three duties together now, we're going to find solutions, because the possibilities exist in a large way along our coast to create both housing, more jobs and increased employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e738	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e743	There has been a broad consensus on Norwegian fisheries policy at Stortinget, that the fishing resources belong to the community, and that the values created belong to our communities, to fishing communities and not least to the Norwegian economy. That's how I want it in the future as well. Norway is blessed with particularly skilled fishermen, who harvest resources sustainably, and we have good fisheries management. In the case of fishermen, it is the fishing fleet, the coastal fleet and the sea fishing fleet. It's important to underline. For the Left, it is also important to maintain the current allocation of quota rights between the coastal fleet and the sea fishing fleet, based on a widespread and widespread ownership of the boat and its use. This will also be important for the rural industry. So the question is: is the Minister for Fisheries committed to ensuring that a future wide ownership of fishing vessels and that fishing rights are not collected in a few hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e750	Yes, we fully agree. I have also not signaled that there is any political party or any politician who wants to change the distribution we have today. That's what I tried to point out a little earlier, too, that the distribution and the share of the resources that lie within our coastal communities have been reasonably calm. There has been no big difference here. I think we should agree on that, because I have also said in many respects that the core wall of Norwegian fishing in the future will continue to be our coastal fishing, our proximity. The big challenge is on the industrial side. I have ambitions – and I hope I share them with the Left – that we should also ‘homesource’ something, so that we get more processed at home, because it will be with and strengthen our export value, but also create employment and housing along the coast. So one of the big goals we need to achieve is to create profitability for the industry as well. It will provide security for everyone who is fishing, whether it is coast or sea, and that must be our purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e755	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e760	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Labour Party believes we should build the country, not sell it. The state companies contribute large revenues that contribute to financing our well-being. The Minister of Economic Affairs is himself budgeting with revenue of 12.5 billion. SEK in dividends to state corporations for the next year. We believe that strategic state ownership plays an important role in creating new jobs, strengthening innovation and competitiveness across the country, and that they have an important role to play in the transition we are now in. Telenor and the Kongsberg Group are among others the centre of the initiative on a top-level industrial centre. Telenor has also contributed to a lab for artificial intelligence on NTNU, and long-term government capital provides security for business conversion and positive ring-effects. The two mentioned companies want us to be sold to the government. In the future, we will need more new businesses that grow large and create a significant number of new jobs. At the worst possible time, the government proposes dramatic changes in Investinor, which will lead to a dry venture market for Norwegian innovation. At the hearing of the Business Committee, the parties agreed that Investinor was essential to ensure growth opportunities for new Norwegian companies. We have not heard such agreement from the parties since they asked for extended permitting rules. Then it also took its time, but the government finally turned around. Will the government now put aside its ideological skylights and realize how important state capital is to facilitate conversion and new growth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e774	We are among the countries in the world with the highest state ownership — there may be only a few more having more than what Norway has. We're still going to have that. The disagreement we have is actually quite so marginal. When it is mentioned that the Kongsberg Group was to be put out for sale, it is such that the Storting decided that it would not happen. What we have presented to the Stortinget, to which the Stortinget has joined, is that the state should still be a large owner both in the Kongsberg Group, in Telenor and in a number of other companies. We own, among other things, 34 pst. in DNB, we own over 50 pst. in Telenor, we own over 50 pst. in Kongsberg Gruppe. In the case of Investinor, I understand that it is difficult to admit that you have been wrong. But it's like we have to make changes when we see that the tools we create and decorate, actually don't work like we hoped. Investinor is now eight years old, and the Stortinget has been notified through several budgets that we have a review of the Investinor. When Investinor does not meet the objectives we have set for them, it is not Investinor's responsibility, it is not the responsibility of the employees – it is my responsibility, it is the responsibility of the government, and now it is the responsibility of the Storting. We have had a thorough review of Investinor, just as we have had it of instruments in both Innovation Norway and the Research Council, and the feedback is very clear: they do not achieve innovation, innovation and transformation to the extent we wish. When we compare it to other similar companies, neither is it achieved, and we've been waiting eight years for this to work out. The forest industry in Norway does not benefit from the fact that Investinor has nearly 0.5 billion. kr unused funds on book. Founders and early-stagers do not benefit from Investinor not being able to invest in those companies that have sufficient growth ambitions. We are now proposing a change. Of course, it's painful, but we're doing it to meet the situation we're in, where we need to build up many more private owner environments together with the public, in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e785	When the Minister of Industry sold us into SAS, the reason was to reduce state ownership, not to strengthen the company by securing industrial solutions. The government sells to sell. Today's high unemployment situation and a high need for migration require active enterprise policies. It's hard to get an eye on the government's plan for this. Many believe that it must be invested in bioeconomy, which is referred to as the new oil, but in the 2017 state budget there is only half-hearted investment there. The N.O. underlines that it takes too much time. The government was to bet on the mineral industry, but they cut the budgets. They were to bet on space, but cut in budgets. They were to bet on travel, but cut in the budgets. Founder plans that came last year are already being dismantled in the budget now, for example: in the case of the Investinor cut made by the government. The South and West action package is also being cut. Can the Minister of Industry defend his own business neutrality at a time when change and job creation are very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e794	This government has no business-neutral industrial policy. The last time that word was used was actually in a staging proposition from a labor party government. The last time it was really sold shares of state ownership, was in the Stoltenberg I government, and they privatized both Telenor and Statoil, and they sold themselves into DNB. So the really big sale from the state happened under the red-green ones. We have sold under 2 pst. of the shares in SAS. It was a mandate obtained by the Workers' Party. I fully understand that we are responsible for setting up the tools we have, in a way that makes them create innovation, that they create new jobs, and that they provide value creation. So I think the Workers' Party just has to admit that they've been wrong, and that changes need to be made if we're going to get to what we want. That is why we are proposing changes to Investinor. I think it's absolutely necessary if we're going to build up more private ownership environments in many different industries across the country, but we're going to keep Investinor as an instrument for the early-stage companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e803	Then it's 11:30, and the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e817	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 8, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Knowledge, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Knowledge has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e833	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘250,000 users could have an internet offer with a much higher capacity than is the case today if they could use the already built base stations, according to TV 2. Hidra outside Flekkefjord and Ashkoy are two examples where the population will have to wait up to three years because of the regulatory regime that requires three years of alerting. What will the Council of State do to help the deployment of expanded broadband capacity as quickly as possible for the benefit of the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e848	I thank you for the question, and I share the commitment of the representative Gruvan. Making sure that people can connect to a digital network as quickly and as quickly as possible is important to us. It is about developing good communities with good soil for labour and business. The background to the TV 2 look-up is that the National Communications Authority has imposed a three-year alert period on Telenor for certain cases of changes in the copper access network. This alert time is set to create predictability for the operators that have invested in equipment located on the Telenor central network. The idea is that predictability is important to provide a basis for good investment for many actors and to have competition in the market. If we hadn't had that warning period, you're afraid that one would have had worse competition in the broadband market today and worse broadband offers in many places. It was invested in 2015 over 4 billion. on fixed networks in Norway, and the competitors of Telenor accounted for more than half of the investments. It is therefore important that one has competition and several actors. At the same time, we know that the warning time now set aside can mean that a person has finished infrastructure that can be upgraded using new technology, but using the old copper network will seem to take too much time before a person puts it into service. It really doesn't make sense to have to sit and wait for three years if one could almost just press a button. So we have to get to the balance so that one can do it in a way that's faster than today, without one taking away the billions that are invested, and that makes one not getting a better net elsewhere. From the feature shown on TV 2, one can get the impression that 250,000 households can get faster on the Internet during the day. That's after what I'm told, not exactly right. The figure of 250000 refers to the planned upgrades until 2020. So the number is lower than the TV 2 gave the impression, but that's still a number I think is good. In the current year, less than 70,000 households, according to Telenor, will be offered a higher broadband rate if the company has not imposed a three-year alert period. In January of this year, on the initiative of us, the National Communications Authority set up the Broadband Forum, in which we aim to ensure that market actors are able to find solutions to that type of issue. We want them to work together to find solutions that will ensure that everyone is satisfied and that they can make rapid progress, rather than that governments are going to engage in long mediation processes or take decisions that will cause discontent and investment to disappear. We are not entirely satisfied with the results of the Broadband Forum. We're going to follow the discussions that are internal, and we're going to put a little bit more pressure on them. And then we'll see if we finally have to use power if good cooperation doesn't deliver results, for the goal of what the representative Gruvan takes up, I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e863	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for the Council's commitment to finding solutions, for this is about how existing infrastructure can benefit more fully. Good network and mobile access has gradually become an infrastructure as common as water and sewerage. More public and private services are made available online, and then there will be a significant difference between those with good access and those who do not. Networking and mobile access are an important tool to reduce not least distance disadvantages and are therefore relatively more important where other infrastructures, such as roads and collective services, are weak. From the customer's point of view, either one is on Hidra in Flekkefjord, in the Garden of Ørland or on Askøy outside Bergen, the legislation that can give up to three years of waiting is very unreasonable when the infrastructure is already in place. That's why I'm busy asking Question No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: Are there instruments – in addition to broadband forums – that allow waiting time to be reduced, for the benefit of broadband customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e872	After all, it's our regulation that determines what things are. There is a good actor on behalf of the national communications authority. They are competent people who follow this carefully. However, we have considered that as a starting point, cooperation and solutions with which everyone lives well should be what we are trying to achieve. But after both the newscast on TV 2 and a discussion we had in Arendal, where Telenor was present, we have been told to the National Communications Authority to set a binding deadline for reaching a common solution, and that it will happen in a relatively short time. If they don't find a solution, we'll go in and see if we can change the rules. That's what we have, but that's not necessarily what we want to use. But it will depend on the actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e877	Thanks for the answer. I believe that the Council of State here is concerned about using the tools available to achieve good solutions. Whether it's called 'compulsory broadband topic' or how one should do it, I'm very happy that this is a government council that is concerned about going further in the matter. And then my question is: When can we expect the State Council to take further initiatives if not the NCOM, the National Communications Authority, through this broadband forum finds a solution to how this should be handled in view of those users who are now waiting for a broadband solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e884	I wish I had noted down in the back of my head when the deadline we have given them is. I could then give the representative Gruvan a very clear answer. Can I get back to that? But my objective is of course that we have to do this fairly quickly, because if we can provide good coverage to 70,000 more users faster than they have to wait for three years, I think the gain for society is very big.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e892	«The Oslo region, the Bergens region, the Trondheim region, the North Jären, the Kristiansand region, the Buskerud village, Grenland, the Lower Glomma region and Tromsø shall have urban environmental agreements based on the zero growth objective of the Climate Agreement and National Transport Plan 2014-2023: «The growth of passenger transport in the metropolitan areas shall be taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors». Is this delineated as an indispensable and overall direction when the State Road Service negotiates comprehensive urban environmental agreements with the regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e899	The short answer is yes. It is part of the requirements that the Road Administration will develop in those negotiations. It is a goal that we should get better urban accessibility, better urban air, lower emissions. The purpose of the urban environment agreements is that the state should be involved and contribute financially to the realisation of this, while the cities must be involved and develop, i.e. have a land use that supports under that infrastructure. People should have a shorter road to the collective nodes, shorter road from where they live and from where they work. Everybody's got to be there. We can't invest billions of dollars in good bus systems if people live spread and piggy and don't want to go to the bus stop. There's a lot of different goals we're going to try to achieve in cities. It should be nice to live there. People need a job. People will spend less time traveling, no more time. The objective of the climate agreement is also one of the main prerequisites of the Road Administration and the other negotiators.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e904	In order to follow this up a little bit more in detail: to achieve this zero growth target, the number of car journeys must be constant, while the population of these regions is going to grow as much as up to 25 pst. towards 2030. This means that there has to be significant growth in public transport, corridors and bicycles, and the car share has to drop sharply, from maybe around 70 pst. today until at least 50 pst., the multiplication rate must rise sharply, the bicycle percentage must rise sharply, etc. Is this redistribution in transport mode used as an overall guide for the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e909	What I understand is that the representative really asks is that we now need to invest less in order to meet the goal that one referred to in the first question. It would have been a natural conclusion, if we had roads that were in optimal condition already. But very much of the road network in this country is not in and out of the big cities, but between districts, between towns and towns. After driving on most European roads, many national roads and even more county roads over my three years as a councillor, my clear impression is that we need to spend more money repairing our road network, not less. But right in and around the big cities there will be a strong growth in the economic framework underpinning the expansion of public transport, because there is a need to ensure that people have an alternative to the means of transport they choose today. If you make people's travel days longer and worse, people don't get a better everyday life. We have to make sure that those who are in a queue today feel that their day is getting better with what politicians are doing. That's why we're building up rail more than ever before. That's why we've almost tripled the allocations to cities in terms of rewards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e914	I note that the Council of State leaves no answer to the obvious question, namely whether it is a guide for the State Road Administration to help redistribute the use of transport in cities. It is not very reassuring that he will not answer that clearly. There's another problem that I would like to have answered, and that's the fact that business traffic is exempt from the zero growth target for traffic in the big cities. It's also the transit traffic, as the government has set it up. The question that arises from this is: What is the instructions of the Council of State to the State Road Administration when negotiating urban environmental agreements in metropolitan areas that have more ambitious targets than zero growth in passenger car traffic? Will the objectives of metropolitan areas be taken into account, or will the State Road Service try to reduce ambitions to state level?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e921	In our local democracy it is that if the municipalities want to have more stringent goals, it is their freedom to have it. But they have to take the financial responsibility for it. What we do in the urban environment agreements is to add up to meeting the targets set by the Storting. A municipality will always be able to do more than that, I won't deny them that. The local economy has improved with today's government. The profits are bigger. The real growth is larger than it's ever been. It gives municipalities more room for action to be offensive. I'm sorry if the representative Hansson thinks I didn't respond well enough to question 2. I did not understand the word ‘city’, I understood only a general road transfer. But my answer to that is that also in some cities there are some road sections that need to be repaired, for example. to accommodate your own bus fields. The E18 project west of Oslo is one example, where much of the investment is going to be about better progress for public transport, better walking and cycling, and not least protecting the local population living along the road, for the noise and pollution that the road represents today. Also in cities roads are needed, but the main bet is on the bus and rail, the bike path and the walkway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e931	‘The Government has set itself the objective of 90 pst. by 2020, households shall offer at least 100 Mbit/s based on commercial expansion of the market and easy construction. Furthermore, the government says that good eco-nets should be a competitive advantage for business throughout the country. The 2017 State budget proposes the allocation of SEK 93.7 million to the NKOM to contribute to the development of non-commercial areas. Applications were submitted for SEK 465 million in 2016. How has the Council of State intended to achieve the objectives of the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e938	Getting good digital coverage around the country is a goal for this government. It allows us to use the whole country, city and district in a good way, by expanding living and working areas and making it more attractive to invest in the districts because one is connected on the same digital network and gets communicated and shared information. An impression is given in the question from the representative that there are government appropriations that are the main driving force. That's not right. The development of fibre networks and telecommunications and mobile networks has been largely done by private operators, with Telenor and Telia as the most well-known, both during today's government and under the previous government. It's given good results. This has meant that only from 2015 to 2016, i.e. in one year, has the coverage for high-speed broadband, where one has speeds above 100 Mbit/s, increased from 73 pst. Coverage to 78 pst. coverage – 5 percentage points up. If we have one further development, we're in the goal, but we're going to do even more if we see that we're reaching this goal. Only from 2015 to 2016, 100 000 households who had not had it before were offered fibre access. It was invested $2.7 billion. SEK in fibre networks in 2015, which is an increase of 200 000 million. kr from the previous year, i.e. an even good and high level of this. For me, it is about making sure that it is attractive for telecom operators to invest in Norway rather than making this a debate on what is the State aid scheme. Then it is true that more applications have been made for support for the development of networks in the districts than there is money for. But that's not new in 2015, either in 2016. It's been like that in all the years this arrangement has been, even when the Center Party crashed. But what's important here is to see what's the total offer, because nothing is better for me than if the state doesn't need to use a penny, just because you've gotten the legislation to simplify so that the costs go down, and in several places it's profitable for companies to invest without thinking about whether the state contributes money to this. It's one of the things we've spent the most time on -- make sure we try to get simplified digging rules and harmonise them, which makes the industry look cheaper. An example that the industry itself uses is that if one had used the strictest digging code to dig down fiber, it would have cost almost 1 billion when one had built out the fiber net outside of Alta, which is quite a mile long. kr. With the cheapest rules, it costs less than 100,000 million. kr. This is why the legislation is far more important than the aid scheme, but the aid scheme is because it provides an additional push in the areas where the market would most recently be able to solve it itself, and it is important for us to participate and stimulate all parts of the country. Therefore, we have the scheme, but not under any government has a clear funding to fund all applications every year when they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e951	It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that there's always going to be a big need out there, which we probably can never cover, but I want to add that the red-green government used about. 1 billion. kr on broadband expansion in the years in which they were in government. Then I would also like to add that we have to remember that the iPhone came in 2009, iPad in 2010, so the need has had a huge increase. But Uppland is the most miserable place to live in in terms of broadband speed. In 2012, we had 4.3 Mbits per second -- it's up to 90 Mbits per second. In 2016, the second quarter we had 15.3 Mbit/s. We live in an area where expansion is not profitable, and it's a huge frustration in the districts. In the past we had both electricity and telephone transmission to the entire population through a separate system of state ownership and regional and local ownership. I wonder, is the Council of State interested in looking at such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e956	I don't even think the Center Party was thinking about such a solution when they actually crashed. But let me still look at Uppland concretely when one gives the impression that things are bad because of today's government. In 2016, the State will contribute 7.2 million. kr in support of broadband expansion in Uppland. In 2015, we supported with 15.3 million. kr. For comparison, the Centre Party supported the state of 6.9 million. SEK 6,6 million. SEK and 5.1 million. kr – i.e. lower support in the last three years with red-green control than in the years we have run. Therefore, I have nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the means we use for Uppland. The other thing that's important, as I said, is to make sure that the market does that job as much as possible, and they do it on the go. There's one, for example. in Uppland had a 4G coverage of 9 pst. In 2013, we now have 91 pst. in 2016. So even though one is in no way in the goal, we've seen a fantastic development in the years that we've been responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e963	I understand that the Council of State thinks it is painful that I am trying to blame him, but it was not my intention. The purpose, as I also said at the outset, is that there has been a massive need increase out there, and we believe that Uppland and Hedmark, and the other lowest states, should have an equal opportunity to participate in the digital world as the rest, otherwise we will have a digital class division. We are committed to solving that, and then we have to do it both through competition and through state subsidies. What is the challenge today is for providers to build parallel networks. That's what we want to avoid, so that Telenor comes and digs a ditch, and then Telia comes and climbs a ditch next to it in the commercially profitable areas. We are interested in seeing how we can manage to develop in those areas that are today considered less profitable. Now I know that the Council of State has sent to the hearing a new law, a broadband extension law, which calls for some changes. I'm probably going to get closer to it, and so will the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e970	It is absolutely right that we have already sent out to the hearing a law that will try to sort out some of the things that are being pointed out here, to make it easier to access the various infrastructures. But in what I have read from the representative Tingelstad Wøien in the newspapers, there has been massive criticism of today's government where one gives the impression that Uppland is forgotten. But the figures I have show that Oppland receives more support under our government for the construction of fiber than they did under the representative Tingelstad Wøien's own reign, with the Central Party in government. So that criticism becomes fairly artificial when the numbers actually show the opposite. I fully agree that Uppland is not the main one when you look at the statistics. They're still slightly off-balanced with many others, but we see a growth rate that's larger here, where one had a 4G coverage of 9 pst. for citizens in 2013, and 91 pst. This appropriation is intended to cover the This indicates that much is happening here, even with the government's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e986	This question lapses because the Minister of Foreign Affairs has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e994	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU: ‘The United Kingdom notifies that they are leaving EU cooperation. This means that they also leave the EEA part of the internal market. Article 127 of the EEA Agreement provides that a Contracting Party is to give at least 12 months’ notice. The British Prime Minister has announced that they will implement Section 50 of the EU Treaty in March 2017. The removal of rights and obligations within the EU and the EEA should be as identical as possible. Negotiations should then take place in parallel or in cooperation between the EFTA countries and the EU countries. Has the government dealt with this with the Commission and the United Kingdom?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1003	The United Kingdom will also exit the EEA after withdrawal of the EU after notifying it under Article 127 of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement does not provide for the negotiation of an outsourcing agreement, such as Article 50 of the EU Treaty. Article 127 also states that the remaining parties to the Agreement shall convene ‘a diplomatic conference to assess any changes which may be necessary to the Agreement’. This provision will be updated for the first time when the United Kingdom leaves the EU and will, after all, leave the EEA. Norway is not a party to the forthcoming EU-UK callout negotiations. But we are directly affected because the EEA Agreement currently regulates much of our economic relations with the United Kingdom. British withdrawal from the EU will also have an impact on the further development of the EU and therefore also on Norway. For the government, it is essential to ensure proper functioning of the EEA post-British exit cooperation. At the same time, our ambition is at least as good and broad a relationship with the United Kingdom as what we have today. That is why we are now monitoring and assessing Norwegian interests in the light of Brexit. The government also has a close dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU to communicate Norwegian views. Both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Industry and the undersigned have met with our British colleagues, other central Member States and representatives of the European institutions which have been the central theme for the last few weeks. The central message from Norway has just been to make the EEA dimension visible by brexit, that it is important to engage in ongoing dialogue, and that we are consulted so that transitional arrangements and future frameworks for the United Kingdom and EU relationship also fit into a wider EEA context. It is important to remember that the internal market consists of 31 members, not 28. Norway, as an EEA member, is not an ordinary third country. We have seen a great deal of understanding of this view, not least because it is also in the interests of the EU and the United Kingdom that the solutions negotiated do not create new challenges for relations with countries outside the EU that are part of the internal market. Norway, together with its EFTA and EEA partners, will therefore take the initiative to convene such a diplomatic conference. I will take the initiative for a first dialogue and discussion on this when I meet my colleagues from Iceland and Liechtenstein in Brussels on 14 November at the half-yearly EEA Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1018	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the government has started to contact both Member States, the United Kingdom and the European Commission and has the intention of maintaining close contact. But I think that's not enough. I believe that, on the part of the EFTA countries – the three EFTA countries together – we need to raise the question, the requirement and the possibility of having a seat at that table, if not as an observer. It is true what the formalities say, and the Council of State said that an initiative should be taken to convene a diplomatic conference when the notice of withdrawal from the EEA Agreement comes. That's good. But she stressed that it does not say that there should be negotiations. I guess at that conference you don't just have to eat dinner. I think you should have conversations about what you are facing, and you should not be bound by the fact that the word ‘negotiations’ is not included in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1025	Article 50 is about the announcement of the EU, and it is very clear that this is about negotiations between the country that is leaving the EU and the remaining Member States. At that negotiating table there is no room for non-members. But we are not a normal third country, and we have this provision in Article 127 of the EEA Agreement, which means that a forum should be set up, and an initiative should be taken in order to have this important dialogue in order to ensure those countries that are members of the EEA but are not members of the EU. I'm assuming that we're going to convene such a conference as soon as there's any basis for that. For the moment, we're in a situation where we're waiting for clarifications from both the British and Brussels, considering what are the scenarios ahead, and what kind of agreements you're looking at, but we're going to follow as closely as we can from the Norwegian side. I can promise that to the representative Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1032	The fact that we have some time gives you the opportunity to use the policy of maneuvering into a position. I think the Council of State is taking too much formalist view into account when she says that Article 50 is clear on who is to negotiate. The history of EU cooperation is full of examples of policy overcoming juxtaposition and formalities. I recommend to the Council of State to read the book «The Passage to Europe» by Luuk Van Mittelaar on the history of the European Union from the beginning to the present day. Then she will find great inspiration in using the policy against the formalities and see if we can't succeed in maneuvering into a situation where the formalities say we really don't belong at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1037	I can assure the representative Svein Roald Hansen that we are also using the policy. We use every opportunity we have now in both formal and informal forums to be clear that we are not a regular third country. It is to the greatest extent in the interests of Norway and the EEA countries to be consulted and to have a dialogue on what this future framework will look like, because it will also concern us when it comes to the issue. So here it works, and I think soon – I was saying – the whole government is involved in this work. Not least, the Prime Minister has been in contact with central people in Brussels, but she has also close contact with the new British Prime Minister. It is my more sunny impression and our more sunny impression that there is both understanding and recognition that EEA countries have a role to play in relation to the fact that the future agreement also concerns us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1045	I have the following questions: ‘In Krokkjänn in Krødsherad municipality, there is now a larger peak in a nationally protected area. The site consists of several core areas and natural values of national importance have been identified. Half of our endangered plants and animals live in the forest. That's why Stortinget decided in spring that 10 pst. forests shall be protected. When will the Council of State intervene and ensure the protection of this nationally valuable forest area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1054	In the question from the representative Eidsvoll Holmås it is referred to that it takes place at the highest in a ‘nationally protected’ area, at Krokkjänn in Krødsherad. I am informed that the forest in question at Kroktjänn has been considered to be regionally protected, not nationally protected, and according to the information I have received, no havoc has been carried out in forests that have been assessed as nationally protected. Let me say that the effort on forest protection has never been higher than now, with a budget of 392 million. kr in 2016, a level that we propose to maintain in the 2017 budget. The size of the population was addressed before the summer of the year on a nature diversity action plan. That Communication states that forest protection work will continue and that it will mainly take place through the protection of public-owned forests and through the voluntary protection of private-sector forests. Voluntary forest protection has been a major success. So far, 300 forest areas have been protected by this scheme and the scheme has resulted in a sharp reduction in conflicts in forest protection, while at the same time increasing the pace of forest protection work. Increased protection of forests has now been widely accepted, both politically and in forest owners’ organisations. In the Krødsherad case, the department received a letter from NORSKOG, which owns the timber company that runs the logging plant. The letter from NORSKOG shows that forest owners have assessed voluntary protection, but he has not wanted this. I'm placing a decisive emphasis on that. Based on the information I have today, I do not want to use regulatory protection in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1065	I then heard that the council said he was not going to do anything to stop or protect the area at Krokjänn in Krødsherad. Of course, I think that's sad, but I just have to deal with that. I want to talk about the national importance, both here and in other areas. The big message Nature of Life says on page 128: ‘There is a lack of forest protection in the large low-lying forest areas of the East. It will be important here to establish new nature reserves, including larger protected areas, and it will be necessary to protect forests which – and here is a key element – ‘can develop important natural qualities in the long term’. The area in Krødsherad would be a perfect candidate for something like that. But let me ask the following question: this is not the only example of cutting it in protected forest areas. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment intend to do something to ensure that it is not mowed in nationally valuable areas in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1077	The goal of protection, to which reference was made in the representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ quote from the nature diversity announcement, is a goal that we share and that there is no disagreement about. It's about how we do it the best we can. So there's a system of voluntary protection in terms of private forest, which has worked very well, and which works very well, and I'm busy keeping that system. If we're going to achieve our goal of 10 pst. protection, we need forest owners to come with areas for voluntary protection, and then we depend on that there is respect for and an understanding that it is the support bar in the protection of private forests. That's why I want to stick to this as the clear rule, that we go for the voluntary protection of private forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1082	I am too voluntary protection, and I think it has proved to be a success. But it's like, at the pace the government is now putting up with in terms of protection, with the appropriations for voluntary protection, it takes 42 years, according to the hearing bodies that we've been in this budget round before we reach the target of 10 pst. protection. The red-green government presented a stepping-up plan for the voluntary protection, and before the 2013 election, the Right promised to protect more forest than the red-green, more ambitious than the escalation plan that we had presented. But if we had followed the escalation plan presented by SV's Environment Minister, we would have 630 million. SEK to forest protection next year, while the current government proposes 392 million. kr. Why does the government not grant more money to forest protection, as they promised, if the target is 10 pst. protect?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1089	One thing is to make plans, another thing is to put the money on the table. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has a record effort on forest protection. We'll continue the next year. When we took over three to four years ago, there was a lack of money, then there was a queue of forest areas and private owners who wanted to offer areas for protection. Now the queues are gone, so we're delivering on the ambition of increasing forest protection. Time will show you exactly how long it will take. We depend on the forest owners coming up with areas they offer for private protection, plus that of course we will also protect the public owned forest. But there are professional criteria on the basis of whether we choose the protection of public forests or the protection of private forest through voluntary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1097	‘28. This year, WHO Member States adopted a target for the eradication of hepatitis C by 2030. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has presented a national strategy for hepatitis infection. Both hospital and drug user organisations have criticised the fact that the national strategy operates both with the wrong numbers of new infections, and that Norway does not comply with WHO commitments to eradicate hepatitis C in Norway by 2030. Does the Council believe that the national strategy for hepatitis infection will eradicate hepatitis in Norway by 2030?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1104	The national strategy provides guidance for further work on hepatitis in Norway. The strategy aims to keep infection at the current low level, to reduce the spread of infection in vulnerable groups, and to provide safe and effective treatment to all those who become seriously ill with chronic hepatitis infection. In terms of reported infection rates, the Annex to the strategy states that 1 200-1500 new cases of hepatitis C are recorded annually in Norway, which is unexplained. These figures are derived from the MSIS infection register, but relate to individuals who have been infected a long time ago and who are randomly re-tested and newly infected. Accurate numbers of new infections are not easily documented, but are probably lower than the figures given. This should be clarified in the national strategy, so it would be more appropriate to indicate the figures as the number of cases reported and not the number of new cases. Although major medical advances are taking place in this field, we cannot avoid contamination in Norway as long as hepatitis has a high global prevalence. A total eradication of hepatitis in Norway is therefore dependent on the success of the World Health Organisation’s work. Part of this will be that we in Norway are following our national strategy, and that other countries are doing the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1113	We want everyone to have an equivalent health service, regardless of background and life situation. Hepatitis C frames, as we know, primarily groups that are often those that have the least protection from before. Very many people are injecting drug users. We know that this group is down-prioritised, despite promises of a strengthening of the health system and other sectors. The escalating plan for the drug field is one of the answers to that, and I am very happy that we have got it. However, lowthreshold services such as LASSO here in Oslo, injection rooms, outreach services and LAR services are important for the very most vulnerable and sickest, and good services across the country will make it easier to find and help the high-risk groups for disease and ensure good diagnostics and follow-up for those who need it the most. Does the Council of State consider that the lowthreshold measures we have in the escalation plan for the drug field are sufficient to monitor, seek and ensure good management of hepatitis C, including for the most vulnerable in the infectious risk group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1120	Yes, I believe that the measures we have in the escalation plan will have a significant impact in this area. We are well in the process of the escalating plan, among other things. by setting up a street hospital in Bergen, by now providing resources for the development of LASSO services also in several other cities, and by stepping up in the 2017 budget to the municipalities in this area. Then we'll have to follow the results of the escalation plan as it comes forward, and it's only when we've completed the escalation plan that we can say how the total effect was.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1125	It is important to keep pace, because the overall offer is important. A report by Oslo Economics from 2014 refers to some interesting estimates related to the cost of life of treatment. New drugs are now being developed, and, fortunately, prices are falling. That report shows that we are facing life-cycle costs up to 12 billion. kr with the current treatment regime. The more people who are treated with new drugs, the cheaper it is, and in addition, early treatment will increase the quality of life for those who have the disease. This is a possible Children’s Egg – if we are both able to provide medicines and cheaper treatment, improve the quality of life and strengthen the protection of infectious diseases. So it's important to keep pace up. But then the question of a separate action plan, not just a strategy, is on the steps to achieve this goal by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1132	The assessment of whether an action plan is a proper implementation tool, or whether there are other ways of implementing more concrete measures in the follow-up to the strategy, is a work that we are now considering. Some of the recommendations made by the Institute for Public Health related to the work on the strategy have a level of detail that is not natural to include in a national strategy. But the national strategy must be followed up with action. If an action plan is then the right tool, or if one is going to go more on concrete measures, then something the ministry is now working on. It is also a proposal for a representative to be discussed in the Committee on this subject, and on this issue I will also come back with a more detailed reply to the committee on that proposal for a representative. However, I fully agree with the representative that the strategy must be successful, and that requires concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1146	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1160	The aim of Nav supervisors in school is to help young people stay at school, to complete and survive. The purpose of action grants is partly to contribute to the cost of living and partly to be an incentive for participation in labour market measures. In order to receive action grants, a person must participate in labour market measures and not receive other living benefits. In the past, measures were available from 16 years of age. From 1 January 2016, action grants at a low rate – DKK 257 per day of action – to action participants under 19 years of age, and a high rate – DKK 355 per day of action – to other participants. Child allowances and supplementary benefits may also be provided to cover actual expenditure on, for example: transport and child care. The reason why policy-makers under the age of 19 receive low rates of benefit is that this group mainly lives at home with its parents. The representative, Mr Bøhler, argues that action money can motivate young people outside education and employment, who would otherwise be passive, to participate in labour market measures. On the other hand, the benefit may also help young people to opt out of regular secondary education courses in order to participate in labour market measures with Nav action grants. The last thing we need is schemes that draw young people out of school. At the same time, the Children's Act says that people under the age of 18 should be cared for by their parents. Against this background, the lower age limit of 18 years for getting action grants was introduced with effect for new cases from 1 January 2016. I cannot see that there is now any basis for reversal of this legislative change. Youth is a priority target group in labour market policy. The government is now proposing its own efforts towards job seekers and people with disabilities under 30 years of age who are unsolicited to work, school places or other appropriate activity eight weeks after being registered with the need for labour-oriented assistance from the employment and welfare centre. The aim of youth action is to prevent young people from becoming passive, motivated by job search, to increase jobseeker competence and to quickly transfer unemployed young people to work, education or other appropriate activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1171	I thank you for your answer. I was contacted about this by those who work with measures for young people who fall out of high school in urban areas in Oslo. One city mentioned that they have 30 to 40 young people who have gone on such action money until this change came. Of course, they have been in active action, which Nav has organised with the city district. The result now is that, for example: these 30 to 40 do not receive that type of action and there is a high risk of their being passive instead. So, they've fallen out of high school, they're dropouts. Some are, and it's unrealistic at first to get them back to school. The problem is that Nav can now only help them apply for regular jobs – for example. 450 applicants for a part-time job in their area and no chance for these young people. If the change leads to more passive and more potential ‘naves’, as they are called in the debate, will the Council of State consider it again? I'm a little disappointed in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1180	In the case of measures paid to young people aged 16 and over, they are to be counted as children. We are concerned that young people should go to school, that they should complete and pass, and we are concerned that all the measures and initiatives we take should support under exactly that, precisely because the drop-off is a major problem. It is a major social problem, and it is not least a major problem for individual young people who fall outside. This is also why we now have a number of measures to support under it – Nav guides were the representative in their main questions – and in addition more action in the school sector. We have the 0–24 cooperation to strengthen the efforts of municipalities and county municipalities towards vulnerable children, we have reduced the age limit of educational measures from 26 to 22 years, we close the gap between youth and adult rights – to mention something. All of this aims to ensure that young people stay at school, complete higher education and, in this way, stand stronger rusted when they are finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1187	I also thank you for that answer. I fully agree with the objective of maximising school attendance – of course – and that the schemes must stimulate it. But we have a share that actually drops out, actually falls off and doesn't go to school. They're in danger of becoming completely passive and getting into different problems, whether it's with drugs, crime or other things. Some of them also manage to get into jobs, even though it is very difficult without education. Those who work with this are not aware of the fact that 4000 kroner a month – which amounted to 250 kroner a day – should motivate them to quit school. Everyone knows that you'll be able to get a much better job by taking education, so there are completely different reasons why they end. The scheme, the pilot project, with Nav contacts in the secondary school that the Council of State tells us about, is now being phased out from the New Year. So I'm going to ask, what really will the Council of State contribute to the 16-18-year-olds so that those who fall completely out of line will not continue to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1198	Whether DKK 4000 is attractive for young people – it is clear that for 16-17-year-olds, $4,000 is not a completely insignificant sum, and this is also a group of people who live at home and are to be cared for by their parents. I mentioned some measures in my previous answers. In addition, we have also established a two-year training scheme in Nav that targets jobseekers who lack the necessary professional skills and who are currently experiencing difficulties in finding training courses that are sufficiently individualised. The most important thing we can do is to ensure that those young people who fall out of school, preferably return to the ordinary course of education – or else we manage to tailor training courses to those young people in alternative ways that enable them to complete a training course and provide them with skills so that they can get a job. We don't need schemes that draw young people out of school, we need measures that keep them in school or in training courses that give them basic qualifications and competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1205	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-26.ana.ud58e1219	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
