ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e185	The representatives Åse Michaelsen and Sverre Myrli, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e196	On behalf of the representatives of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Kirsti Bergstø, Trine Skei Grande, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I will present a draft Constitutional Law amending the Constitutional Act § 93, the fundamental law of the right to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e201	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e206	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the establishment of an artistic assistant system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e211	The representative of Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e214	It is with very strong feelings that I have the honour on behalf of the representatives Ruth Grung, Marianne Aasen, Jorodd Asphjell and myself to promote a proposal for a representative on measures to acquire more knowledge and prevent long-term outbreaks of mononucleosis/kissosis among young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e219	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e235	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and up to six rows with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted,
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e246	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good and intensive work on this important message at the end of a hectic period here in the house. The Storing Communication is an important part of the follow-up to the December integration agreement last year. At the same time as the notification, a representative proposal from the Storing representatives Lysbakken and Andersen is being considered to ensure integration. It is vital for society to succeed in receiving newly arrived immigrants with a refugee background in such a way that as much as possible can be well integrated, learn the language, get to work quickly and take responsibility for themselves and theirs. Integration work must be long-term, and it requires efforts from all parties: authorities, local communities, volunteering, the labour market and each of those who are going to start their lives in Norway. The faster an asylum seeker gets to live in a municipality, the faster he can participate and contribute his/her resources in working life and society. Therefore, priority must be given to the settlement work in the municipalities. The municipalities now show great ability and willingness to contribute to this work: In 2015 they settled more than 11,300 refugees, an increase of 46 p.m. from the previous year. It is pointed out in the Communication that the Government and the KS will provide an overview of local government expenditure as a host municipality for asylum recipients. It is important that municipalities are compensated for their additional costs in this work. The situation today is that there are almost 4000 refugees in reception waiting for housing, while KS reports vacant dwellings and unused housing decisions in the municipalities. This is not a good resource use, and the Committee therefore asks the government to look at the capacity to conduct the housing interview in reception in order to have a faster settlement. It is also important to give priority to the UDI process so that applications from groups with a high probability of staying can be dealt with quickly. The qualification of the labour market must start as early as possible and be targeted. The Storing Communication suggests that qualification is to a greater extent out-of-work and in cooperation with local business. That's good. It is also important to better facilitate the use of the skills and training provided. It is also a good step in the right direction that the government will grant more asylum seekers temporary work permits by removing the condition of an asylum interview. The Christian People's Party would like the government to go further and do something about the rigid rules of ID clearance. It is difficult to understand that the rules for obtaining work and contributing must be so much more stringent than for the asylum application to be granted. Furthermore, mastering language is essential. It is a key to contacting others, to friendship, cultural understanding and to working in the workplace. Language training must therefore be given priority. The proposal to introduce 50 hours of training in social and cultural knowledge makes sense and can make an important contribution to integration work. However, the majority of the Committee does not want this effort to lead to cutbacks in Norwegian training. Voluntary organisations have a unique role in integration work, and it is important to ensure that receptions involve voluntary actors to a greater extent. Here the proposed scheme of volunteer coordinators receives a good contribution. Children in reception are a vulnerable group who need good care and follow-up. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a Joint Committee is asking the Government to ‘strengthen the child-discipline competence throughout the reception chain’. It has also been agreed, through the examination of the Communication on Integration in the EEA, that an independent system of supervision for beneficiaries of asylum should be established. The capacity of the service must be ensured and the research on integration strengthened. There is also agreement to strengthen the work against radicalisation and violent extremism. There is a formidable integration job around many municipalities. Associations, churches and organizations are making a great effort to establish fatherhood arrangements, create friendships, organise language courses and find foster homes for children on the run. We have to build this under. We must take people's concern, help and sense of responsibility seriously. We have to play these cancers well. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party will vote against proposal No. 9 in the vote, and we propose the following alternative proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the possibility of withdrawing financial support for religious communities which: 1. encourages the violation of Norwegian criminal law; 2. receives foreign funding from countries that violate fundamental human rights. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e287	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e292	SV is very pleased with the broad consensus that it has been in the treatment of the integration message, and that it has been done much better and more concretely through the treatment, and I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for that. We have traditions and a value base that makes us very close to each other in these matters. But I was a little surprised this morning when I saw that the Christian People's Party had put in an alternative proposal for what the Committee agreed on. The point of finding out other things is that it's all about warning against now, parallel society. There is no doubt that there are different beliefs that have internal regimes, such as: their children refuse to have relations with other children or with other adults outside the congregation. It's just to avoid that there will be such parallel societies that require submission, that can lead to abuse, that we want to get this figured out now. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e297	I'm very glad that that question comes, and that it comes from SV. That is no wonder, because in the Committee there was a relatively broad agreement on what is called point No. 3, which SV promoted, should contain. But then we met in the media afterwards someone who drew the comment very far. They included matters not mentioned in the Committee, and it was done by the SV's representative in the media. Then we started getting a lot of reactions. There were questions from other church communities, etc. I was wondering if we should start some kind of thought policy associated with this. I know what happened in the committee, but for the Christian People's Party it became a warning lamp, so we won't agree to that point. In addition, it will be investigated in the communication already announced by the Minister of Culture. For us, it was important to have clear lines on this, because what has to do with the dimension of faith is very important to maintain, and you don't have to mix the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e304	No one has mixed the cards here. When this proposal was promoted, it was very clear what it was that was the reason for it. In the integration debate, we are discussing a lot, and everyone agrees that in Norway we do not want parallel societies. Everyone knows that in different faiths parallel societies can develop. And there must be some limits to what State aid can be granted, if you like. their children refuse to have contact with others outside the congregation, both friends and other adults. This is true in Muslim environments, where we have now got girls standing up, and those girls we have to support in their freedom struggle, because the freedom struggle cannot only apply to Norwegian girls. But there are also some Norwegian Christian environments that refuse to have contact with their children outside the congregation. Does Tuskedal think it is right for these to receive State aid to this effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e311	I fully agree with that description. I fully agree with the examples given. That's where we share vision. We can't have any of that, and we have to do that, and the Minister of Culture, in the message that's being announced, will address that. The left has also been inside. At the same time, we need to make sure that we do not fall into the wrong of these matters, because we have now received enquiries, with reference to exactly what the SV representative used as examples in the media, from congregations that wonder if we should have a new round – in the past there have been cases of the Salvation Army and others – with intervention on issues of equality and other things, where one has a practice. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we have included in the proposal that there should be a breach of Norwegian law, and then we will go through the other cases, because we share SV's view as it appeared in the comment, but not as it appeared in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e321	First of all, I too would like to thank the Committee and the very best rapporteur, Mr Tuskedal, for very good work. So I'm very happy that SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left together with us have made this setting much better than what we got from the government. The ambition of the Workers' Party is that Norway should be the world's most inclusive society. We're going to make diversity an attractive resource for economic value creation and cultural development. Hardly any country has better prospects for success than Norway. We've done a lot of good things, and we've done a lot of good things, but we still have challenges and we can't relax in this work. The government's message of integration expresses several things that we in the Workers' Party fully agree with. But it lacks both the heavy and the long-term policies, and that will require this area. We also record that the government has spent a long time – we have requested it for a long time – therefore it was time for the message to arrive. The key to good integration is to learn Norwegian and get into work — and not least stay there. Only in this way can we achieve one of the main objectives of integration policy, namely self-sufficiency. Good language training, education and qualification are essential for success. It must be a primary task to enable local authorities and the labour force to get people into work and participation. Those who come to Norway represent a resource if we give them the opportunity to succeed. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands. We have to make sure that everyone becomes part of the Norwegian social contract: you're going to do your duty, and you're going to demand your right. Here, otherwise, work for every job number one. The labour market has been a success formula that we have benefited from over many years, and the Labour Party believes that strengthening the working line is the answer to today's challenges. We have to make sure that those who come here and are going to live here don't end up in the outside closet. If those ports are there, the danger is that they will stay there, very large. This should be taken seriously both by the Prime Minister and by the Government. This Communication contains too few measures, and too many of the measures proposed must either be investigated, investigated, reviewed, evaluated or monitored. While this work is in progress, the danger is great for more ports in the outside cabinet. What is also crucial in integration policy is that municipalities are able to do that job. It is in the municipalities where the people live and the measures are to be implemented. It requires a good community economy. Therefore, the government must secure the municipalities financial resources to do that job. So far they have not shown the power of action to do so. The danger of not doing so is that the measures will not come out and that one will set up groups against another when the municipality will make economic priorities. Integration must start from day one. When people come to Norway, we have to use the resources to decide who is to stay and who is not to stay. This is how we can, as soon as possible, initiate measures for those who are going to be. It is equally important to focus efforts on those who have already settled in Norway. The security of human life is to have a roof over your head, food on the table and – most importantly – a job to go to. Then language, housing and work is the most important thing. The Workers' Party wants asylum seekers to receive training in Norwegian and social subjects. That is why we want to reintroduce 250 hours of Norwegian education. It is strange that the government cuts Norwegian training at reception — what is one of the key factors in success in everyday life and in working life. It is also important to get women to participate in the labour market, and then it is important that we give priority to kindergartens, so that women can get into work. Today, there is a large proportion of immigrant women who do not participate in the labour market. We need to reverse that trend and facilitate it. One of the most important means of achieving this would have been to liquidate the cash support and replace it with waiting pay for those who do not have kindergarten. The Labour Party is surprised that the government does not see this as an obstacle to good integration. The working party also wants to introduce wage subsidies to enterprises. The answer is not lower pay and temporary. It will only create new class divisions in the workplace. The Labour Party wants to have an active housing policy – increase housing support, provide more rental homes and, above all, strengthen the framework for the Husbank. Finally, perhaps the most important thing: we need to strengthen volunteering. Volunteers are invaluable in the integration work. They need to be recognised and stimulated further — in addition to what we have done today. They're fires that create a better everyday life for everyone. We can do this if we want to, and we in the Workers' Party – we want to. Finally, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e353	The representative Eirin Sund has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e359	Like the debate we had on immigration and asylum last week, there was another post that most of the time commented on by the government. New proposals are at best that you want to give more money than what is already there. I'm not going to make this a long question, because it's not that much to deal with. I'm very curious, because if we put aside all the commentator activities of the Workers' Party, we have to assume that even during the eight years they were overthrown, they did not launch such a comprehensive integration policy as we do today. I would like to challenge the representative, Eirin Sund, quite specifically, what is new about what the Workers' Party has put in the proposal for this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e366	Now I have recorded both in the debate we had on Friday and in all other debates in the Chamber, that the government parties are busy talking about what happened in the eight years of the Workers' Party was in government. From the day we left the government offices, we've been working on politics every day. In government, we pursued a good integration policy. Far from it, we still have proposals in this area to make things better. We have proposed concrete measures that will cost money, but not a single measure of integration in terms of housing, work and language, can be done without one also equiping the municipalities and others to do that job. There is no rhetorical or commentative approach The Labour Party does, there are concrete measures in terms of housing, language and housing, we have proposed in this Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e371	The representative says that you make concrete proposals and that they cost money. Yes, we see that the Workers' Party takes the proposals that lie down, and wants to spend more money than the government does. That's okay enough when you're in opposition. Let me deal with that with housing. You say you're thinking about resettlement. What's new with the Workers' Party's housing model compared to what's in the message? Do you want to be forced to settle, or do you still want a voluntary line? What's new?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e378	We don't want to coerce anyone. But it is on the Advance Party and the Right Guard that we have had a great influx of asylum that requires new measures and to see things differently from what you have done before. In the housing policy, the Workers' Party wants to increase the framework specifically to the House Bank, so that we can have more housing built. We want to build more rental houses in concrete terms, and we want to increase housing support in concrete terms. Now 70 pst is saying. of the municipalities that some of the main challenge is to settle, and there's a signal we're taking seriously. That is why we want to put forward concrete measures on how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e387	The Progress Party has proposed a number of times that benefits such as cash support should be provided. be linked to citizenship. The new Communication also proposes not to provide cash support for the first five years you are here, etc. We have asked the Labour Party a very many questions, which we never get answers to. I wonder if the representative might be able to give an answer today. The reason for removing the cash support is that non-Western migrant women are overrepresented in this scheme. However, the same applies to economic social assistance, social security schemes and a number of other welfare schemes that are general in the Norwegian community. With this reason, what other general welfare schemes does the Workers' Party want to abolish in Norwegian society, because there are non-Western immigrants who are overrepresented there?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e394	I don't think there is one person in the West who hasn't always known that the Workers' Party has been against the cash support, not only because there are non-Western women who receive it, but because we believe it is a disability for women and a disability as a benefit. When we now say something about many non-Western women using the cash support, it is because we believe that if one is to be integrated, we must facilitate this group to get into work – it is a fact that research shows. That's the best way to get integration. Actually, it surprises me that a party that is always – more or less at all – against cash payments without being linked to the obligation to work does not see that the cash support, where we spend billions of years at home, is a measure that prevents integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e404	If you look at last week’s debate on asylum and immigration and at today’s debate so far – and if I imagine how it will turn out – there is a clear link between these issues. There is also no doubt that this is a large matter. This matter really starts far beyond the borders of Norway – in political environments where we have no direct impact at all – and ends in our own communities, in municipal government halls and also in our own neighbourhood. That is what the debate on asylum, immigration and integration policy is about, and that is what it embraces. That is why we must also understand the complexity of the debate. I therefore believe that it was important that the Stortinget came together before Christmas, and that we made an integration settlement. Faced with such a major and complex challenge, it is precisely the sum of the votes of the Norwegian National Assembly that will create policies and solutions that will give legitimacy to the population in the coming years. With that in mind, I think it was a pity that SV chose to stand outside, but I would nevertheless like to thank SV for a good cooperation in the committee in dealing with this matter. In fact, if we fail to integrate, we are also at risk of increased social disparities. The challenge we're facing now is of a completely different dimension and size than ever before. One cannot compare this with the 1970s, when a work immigrant came on Saturday and was working on Monday – or with the labour immigration we have seen in the last 10–15 years from many Eastern European countries, where people like to have a job before coming to Norway. Here's a completely different target group we're going to work with. It is then essential that we have an integration policy where the municipalities are also involved, and that we ensure that the way from being a refugee to becoming an integrated and inclusive citizen is as short as possible. The integration debate in the future must be about political realities such as housing, work, welfare services, language and not least municipal economy – where this is seen in the context, and I refer to the debate we had on the municipal proposition yesterday. Therefore, it is also important that the government has provided an integration message that goes deep and addresses the challenges and not least the opportunities. The last time this kind of new crime was done in the integration field was when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. I know I'm being criticized by the Workers' Party to talk about history, but a historical party of the Workers' Party's calibres has to bear in mind that the rest of us also refer to history sometimes. There has been no new work on this field since then. This is the largest single document in many years, given the width of the case complex and how many proposals are on the table. I don't want to spend my allocated time on any reading from the message, so let me draw up some areas that I think are important, and that I want us to have in mind in the dialogue and the debate ahead. First of all, you're working on how to start integration a lot earlier. It is not uncommon for an asylum seeker to sit on reception for too long and to be passive before he or she has a municipality to live in, but this is not a new situation – something that has been going on for many years. This happens very often without initiating language training or other types of action that should be there and that are now coming through this message. We are now also making it easier to get a temporary work permit. We've got a lot of suggestions on how to do this. The working party has submitted comments on this. But this is the first time we see a proposal where – given that the identity is clarified, because it is crucial – we open up to see how to make it easier to get temporary work permits. We strengthen the role of volunteering so that they can contribute to Norwegian training and other integration measures. We introduce skills mapping and subsequent career guidance. And it is precisely at that stage – when you have arrived at a reception and are about to start a life in Norway – that you also need to be trained in how our society is connected. Social knowledge – our values, our culture and our laws – is important knowledge in the first phase of a life in a reception. It is also crucial for the further journey. We have seen countless examples from different municipalities that say that if they settle for refugees who have received some form of social education — what it is like to live in the Norwegian community, how to apply for a job, how to get to work, and how to get your own housing — the integration into the municipality becomes quite different. The fact that we use social skills to have a common platform from the start is crucial. Then it's the housing model: I'm very happy that the government determines that we're going to have voluntary housing. This is because Norwegian municipalities have never previously settled as many people as they do now. This year, municipalities have decided to settle over 16 000 refugees. That's a completely different result from what we had when we took over after the red-green ones, and it was a aftermath that was there even after a period of time without the enormous pressure that we've had. And this has been done without coercion, without overrun, but through dialogue and not least by creating a welcome culture in the community. It is not only important to provide enough housing when talking about housing, we also need to adapt the whole apparatus needed to facilitate good integration. UDI already has good results from municipalities that have tried out systematic self-settlement within the municipality in question where refugees have been accommodated. This means that it is not self-dwelling of the model where you can only choose where you want to live, but according to the agreed quota the municipality has agreed to, and in consultation with the municipality concerned. Furthermore, it is important to remember that this government has increased the grant to rental dwellings. The government introduced an additional grant for the housing of lone minors and has already notified it to continue in 2017. The next point is the introduction scheme. It has also remained unchanged for too many years, and it is within which a refugee actually spends the first two years of his life as a new one in a municipality. On my journey around municipalities in Norway, I have seen that the quality is too varied. There's too little focus on getting into work quickly. You don't differentiate enough. It's equal to education for everyone, and it also makes that there aren't enough people coming out of work or education. It is therefore important to see language training, working practices, education and local community involvement in the context of this programme. Municipalities that view integration as a task similar to school, care and other, deliver good results. But if this just rolls and goes on the side, you won't get it. That is precisely why I believe that one of the most important things that is happening in this message is this review of the introduction system. I think that if, after the first two years, we get more out of work or education, so that they can start a career, we'll get completely different results in the long-term integration work than we've had so far. Finally, when all fine speeches are made, political decisions are made and the systems are in place, this is also about how we accept our new countrymen. Have you got an immigrant in the neighborhood, or a new neighbor? Have the children had an immigrant boy in class, or a new classmate? Have you got a new immigrant woman at work, or a new colleague? We have to make sure to create a welcome culture in our communities, for this job we're going to do together. We've done it before, and we're going to do it again. I also think that the Communication of Integration responds well, in particular by taking into account the active role of volunteering. One question I can ask myself is: is it so that my generation with a minority background was the last one to have a good chance of success in Norway? The answer to that is of course no, because I think the best stories are still ahead of us. But then we have to dry up the debates we have now, and we have to promote new policies, as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e447	For the sake of order, I would like to say to the representative that I am incredibly proud of both the story that the red-greens made, and the decisions that we made during the eight years of our government. But I'm not so busy looking back. I'm concerned that we're going to deal with us living here and now, and that we're going to make policies to look forward. I am not a second in doubt that the representative Kapur is also concerned about it. He says in the post that it is crucial for the next trip that one also acquires social knowledge in the training. The government has now cut out language training at reception, and it has been pointed out — both in the hearing and by professionals — that language is the key to good integration. The government has already dramatically cut language training. One shall introduce 50 new hours as one shall take off the already existing Norwegian training. Does the representative think that this will lead to good integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e454	If I think getting social knowledge and getting to know Norwegian society better from Norway will lead to greater and better integration? Yeah, I think so. I think it's absolutely crucial to get it in place. So to the point of Norwegian training: Yes, it is right that we propose it, but I do not agree with the representative that this will prevent integration. Actually, I think we're doing the whole package better. You get 125 hours of Norwegian training. We ensure that the role of volunteering is strengthened, so that they too can contribute to Norwegian training. We make sure that we run early competence monitoring, career guidance, and we put these 50 hours of community knowledge into the integration cycle, as I'll call it, so that you can start it from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e462	My question concerns the training of religious leaders, and I would like to refer to the request decision of the Enlarged Council on the treatment of the integration settlement, where: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of an official Norwegian education of religious leaders’. The Government has not followed up this Decision. I believe that the Right agrees with us that the Norwegian society will serve to have religious leaders who have a vision that harmonizes with our fundamental values. Right-wing politician Afshan Rafiq has been in charge of Norwegian imam training. How does the Right view that the government should follow up this request decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e474	I fully agree with the representative of the Central Party that it is important to put in place such an education. That's also why we made sure that it was included as part of the integration agreement. Nor is there any doubt that with today's development it is important that we get imams who understand the Norwegian language, who understand the Norwegian community, and who may also be able to speak in that language. I think that's also important to meet many young Muslims on their own track half. That's why we also thought it was important to get this in, and we still believe that. This is precisely why the government has said that this is something the real departments will come back to, among other things. through the review of this by the Minister of Knowledge. But that it's not in this integration message today, doesn't mean it's not coming. It'll just come through the right department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e481	First, it is to say that when SV was not part of the tightening agreement, the reason was that there were very many anti-integration proposals, which would have hit the very integration of those who are entitled to protection. We are pleased that the worst of the proposals did not get a majority in Stortinget. However, when the representative Kapur answers the Labour Party’s question about Norwegian training, the answer is not relevant. First, the government reduced teaching in Norwegian at reception, from 250 hours to 175 hours. Then you have to introduce a course that everyone agrees to have, but it is also to be taken by Norwegian training. And everyone knows that learning Norwegian should be the first requirement you get, it should be massive, and it should be more extensive than today. Why does the representative feel that there should be less Norwegian training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e486	I haven't even said from this pulpit that we should have less Norwegian training, but I'm talking about that we need to look at the whole integration cycle in a whole. We're going to have 125 hours of Norwegian education, and we're also going to have social education, which I think is an important part of the integration process. We also say that volunteers can go in and contribute to Norwegian training. We strengthen the place of language training in the introduction system. Looking at this package as a whole, it will be more and better integration. So I'm almost going to ask the representative back if it says and falls on the fact that you don't get these 50 hours of Norwegian education, but learn a little bit more about Norwegian society: is that what makes integration worse? If the volunteers go in and help with Norwegian training: Is Norwegian training poorer? If the introduction course focuses more on language and work: Does it provide poorer integration and poorer language skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e493	President, the obvious misunderstanding that SV has suggested something... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e498	There is no further comment on it. It may be addressed by the representative in a separate article. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e503	I forgot to say something about a proposal we were going to raise. Can I do that for the sake of order?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e508	Record a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e511	I would like to make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e516	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e519	It concerns proposal No. 50, as the Christian People's Party took up, which is an alternative to setting IX, which I believe the representative Tuskedal said. I would like to inform you that the Right will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e525	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e528	The most important thing for us in the Progress Party in this matter has been to get the other parties to recognize that there is a connection between the number of immigrants coming, and the possibility of integration. That's something we've been dealing with all alone, but now the bulk of the population is of the same opinion, and we're very happy about that. The reality is that after decades of massive immigration into Europe and Norway, the experience, based on all available public empirical evidence, statistics and knowledge, is that integration is far more difficult to achieve than immigration liberal parties and NGOs have claimed. Yes, integration acts almost like an illusion when we see the reality in our eyes and what are the results after decades of immigration: ‘Dropout’ among non-Western immigrant boys is three times higher than that of other students. Labour participation among the largest non-western immigrant groups is minimal, even after a long period of residence and they have acquired Norwegian citizenship and are almost non-existent for immigrant women from some countries. The same groups are significantly and significantly overrepresented in the receipt of economic social assistance and other welfare schemes. Six out of ten children living in child poverty have a migrant background. Immigrants are clearly overrepresented in criminal statistics, for a number of serious offences. The main reason for increased social disparities is immigration, and unfortunately much indicates that these changes will be quite permanent, and permanent sub-classes will arise as a result of immigration and the fact that social differences and challenges are inherited. These are just some of the areas where the challenges are well documented. Then there are areas where there is probably not as much evidence, professional empirical evidence and statistics, but where there are clear challenges. There are a number of challenges to the repression and social control of immigrants carried out by other immigrants. Here too, unfortunately, there is a wide range of examples of everything from moral police to the hot of immigrant children, and especially girls who do not appear as religious enough, pressure to wear hijab – yes, even ethnic Norwegian children who are offered to use hijab in order not to be bullied and stand out at the school leisure system in the inner east of Oslo. It is very serious that people who have fled from regimes where that type of assault is being carried out must have experienced that what they have escaped from has followed them to where they have applied for protection. On top of this again, challenges arise with radicalisation and the spread of extreme groupings and attitudes in Norway and other European countries, which we have unfortunately seen in recent times. Despite the fact that these developments have not occurred overnight, but have evolved over many decades, those who have faced a liberal policy of immigration, and the NGOs, have tried as well as they can not just reveal the truth: they have tried to establish truths, and they have created an environment where those who have pointed out challenges point to the problems of society, have been hottered. They've been downgraded, they've been humiliated. It has had a major and serious impact on their career opportunities in society, and it has led to major social challenges. What's interesting is to look at the experiment NRK P3 started in that context, where a reporter who posted articles from well-known British newspapers with statistics on what's about extremism among immigrants, was almost excluded from the workplace – people wouldn't eat lunch with him, etc. These are the results of the environment created for those who want to point out the facts in these cases. At the same time, one has also made a vigorous effort to create parallel truths, which fortunately no longer goes. The best example of this was when the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, was arrested by Nettavisen when she presented one of these truths, namely that integration is going so well, mainly integration is going very well, and it has done so. What's new is you start to confront that kind of statement and say, "Excuse me, what statistics, what empire, what area of society are you referring to where you think integration has been enriching and going very well?" Because what we have of the available data in this field shows something else. Much of this is due to the fact that, as massive immigration to Europe and Norway has taken place, it has also developed its own immigration and integration industries that convert billions of dollars. NOAS is the Norwegian Association for Asylum Seekers, but the Anti-racist Centres, Red Cross, Redd Barna, MiRA Centre, SEIF, OMOD, the Association of Advocates and a number of other organisations have also evolved to become the ‘Norwegian Organisation for Asylum Seekers’, or more specifically the ‘Norwegian Organisation for Increasing Immigration and Asylum Seekers’. None of these organisations are ever held responsible for their policies and the consequences of their policies. They may establish truths such as that family reunification is the key to integration. No one in society challenges those who make that kind of claims. I'm sorry, but here it is that the largest non-Western immigrant group in Norway is Somali, with about a quarter of them. 36 000 people. The main reason for this increase has been family reunification. This is a group that unfortunately comes out poorly and poorly in a number of areas of Norwegian society. How has a liberal family reunification policy helped this group to be well integrated into Norwegian society? No one is questioning. Or: How is it that Sweden, which has had one of the most liberal policies on immigration, family reunification and all the points relating to immigration, is now in a disaster situation for the nation, where they are struggling physically to deal with what has arisen as a result of immigration? It is important to point out evolution and what are the realities, to talk about more of the same things that have not helped us, does not lead us further. That is why, in fact, the most important integration measure is to achieve a restrictive Norwegian immigration and asylum policy. The results of decades of immigration to Norway show that this is not the case; this is no better as people live in Norway. The problems are escalating, and eventually they become as big as we can see in our neighbouring country of Sweden, where there are simply areas that are unsafe for those who live there, but also for auxiliaries and important institutions like the police, who want to enter these areas. It is therefore strange to hear that a party like the Workers' Party, which has had the main responsibility in this field for very many years, has suddenly become involved in immigration and only talks about some symptoms and more money to the same thing that has not worked, instead of looking at what has gone fundamentally wrong in the policy they have been involved in. The main party responsible for immigration to Norway is also the party that criticises the Progress Party for not having done enough for integration. If the policy of the Progress Party had been enforced in this field from the 1980s until today, the challenges would not be what we see today. Integration would also have a completely different form, because we are also willing to do something about welfare systems and incentives to be integrated. When there is no roof over welfare schemes, and a single non-Western immigrant mother can get benefits equivalent to NOK 700,000-800 000 in wages, it is not strange that people do not get into work. When we just look at what housing alone represents of the cost of living for some in the largest cities, it's not strange you don't get to integrate. These are points that would really do something about integration if you were serious about it. Unfortunately, however, such proposals have always been put to the vote, and the Workers' Party has – after pursuing irresponsible policies in this field as well – suddenly suspended itself in the cash support, which I hear they are repeating today. Cash support is the smallest of the contributions received by non-Western immigrants. There are far larger welfare systems on which non-Western immigrants are overrepresented. We have never heard the Workers' Party be willing to do anything with those arrangements. Therefore, I would like to stress that for the Progress Party, the most important integration policy is to do something about the number that comes, because we see a relationship between the number of people that come and what we have the real ability to integrate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e584	This amazes me, for there is no connection between what Keshvari says in his post and what you actually do. He has a situation description that I experience to build up under horror, and the answer is all the way and constantly – yesterday, now and certainly always: Close the boundaries. Then I wonder whether the Progress Party and the Government, in particular the Advance Party, will actually want integration. I think if you want to, you have to at least be able to answer how you're going to do it. Then I ask the representative Keshvari: Does he think that cutting Norwegian training – which is not just talking about, but which has actually been done – will contribute to better integration? Does the representative Keshvari think that the payment of billions in cash support will help to promote integration? I would like someone from the Progress Party to go to the pulpit and say something about what they're actually going to do to make integration – without just answering the question of, more or less, closing the boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e591	I challenge the representative from the Workers' Party and all other representatives who claim that what I have listed is fear, to find factual flaws – to refute the proportion of non-Western workers and say that it is higher than it is, and to refute what I refer to in terms of social challenges. Where are the factual errors? When you refer to the truth, it can't be scare propaganda or try to scare. If the truth frightens, you have to do something with it. When it comes to Norwegian training, we have responded to this. You move some of these hours, 50 hours, to an earlier stage so that people are trained in both Norwegian and social knowledge at as early a stage as possible after they arrive in Norway. I think that will contribute to a better integration, to a easier way of getting into Norwegian society. It was a necessary step in terms of what was happening in that area around Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e598	I assume that the Progress Party, in line with the Center Party, is concerned that the Norwegian authorities should have an overview of who is in the country, and who is working here in the country. Last autumn, the Progress Party did not wish to grant temporary work permits to asylum seekers waiting for an asylum interview. They were on the contrary to the party which was the most obvious on which dangerous way this was going, and were most clearly in the debate warning against this. The mood seems to have turned around now. First of all, I don't understand what effect this is going to have as long as it's just 19 pst. by asylum seekers who may present passports for applications for asylum. In other words, very little use will be made of the scheme, while we know that the biggest challenge is to get refugees with work permits into work. Too many of them are out of the labour market. The centre party is concerned that we send people to work without a clear identity. Does the representative Keshvari share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e605	When it comes to job opportunities, important clarifications are made in the communication that were not part of the assumption for those who made the proposal earlier. Secondly, it was a reality – on which the representative himself is involved. This is a marginal thing to get into integration, seen with the big challenges we have. It was the parties that suggested it, which suggested this as the great solution to get immigrants into work. The reality is that among immigrants, even after obtaining Norwegian citizenship, there is a wide variation — based on country background — in the level of participation in employment. In the largest refugee groups in Norway, participation in the labour force is very low, even after obtaining Norwegian citizenship. That this is the big solution, we don't believe in. The most important thing for few people out in work is to do something about welfare schemes, which simply make working over receiving welfare benefits unprofitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e612	The representative has painted a strongly one-sided negative picture of immigrants and the future – doomsday. Then the representative himself is an example of a successful immigrant, an immigrant who gives Norway opportunities and who actually gets it. There are thousands of immigrants in Norway who contribute, succeed and do so. And you're able to change if you have negative attitudes. An example of this is Muhammad Ali Chisthi, who in 2009 at a dialogue meeting I arranged at the House of Literature, stood up and painted Jewish hatred. He was the example of the Jew hater himself. Last year he got the Free Word Prize because he took the initiative to ring around the Mosaic religion when they were under threat. That's an example of how to do it if you just want it strong enough. And my question to the representative is, has the Progress Party really given up succeeding in integrating?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e617	The answer to that is undoubtedly no, we haven't done that at all. We show that every day in the government by making concrete proposals, by taking part in the debate in this field. What we've been busy about is that we're going to have a true debate based on the realities that have come to light. I'm also concerned with drawing up good examples, but we can't have a debate in such a large area of society as this based on anecdotes, personal experiences and individual cases. If we look at the empire, the data and the statistics in this field, the picture is quite clear: that it has gone quite wrong in general. It's a negative image, and it's not an image we're referring to facts, drawing. That's the truth, and then you have to be willing to talk about it, to find solutions to the challenges it poses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e624	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e627	Today we are dealing with an integration message, which I have been asking for for a long time. The large arrivals of asylum in the autumn of 2015 have no doubt that we have a big task ahead of us. I record that many of the measures in the notification are about investigating, reviewing, evaluating and monitoring. There are questions as to whether excessive use of resources will go to the use of consultants and bureaucracies, rather than actual integration measures. There is no doubt in the centre that a good local economy is the most important measure of successful integration. The government must therefore ensure that the measures are fully financed and that the municipalities secure the economy and resources so that they are able to do a good integration work. The central party will also stress that the municipalities must receive 100 pst. reimbursement in excess of the proportion of child protection costs incurred by lone minors. Municipalities refuse to settle single minors because they are not fully financed. Unit price financing or increased integration grants in general are not the way to go, as KS itself has clarified. If the government wants an effective integration policy, there must be consistency between what is said and what is delivered. I am concerned that the measures that the Minister has now put on the table are directed most towards the resource-intensive immigrants. The notification lacks measures for those who are furthest away from the labour market, such as illiterates, immigrant women or others with low skills or low educational background. When the Council of State presented the message on 11 May, she said that ‘do your duty, demand your right’ was the clue. I totally agree with that, but then we also have to give people the necessary tools, so that they can master their own lives. I think that would be a win-win situation, both for individuals and for society. The government proposes its own integration reception for a few – 500 people. I don't think that's the way to go. Good integration takes place in a community, in the face of other people, it does not take place in a reception. The centre party will have an integration policy that embraces everyone, and not just a few. The Minister wishes to introduce financial incentives/reward schemes for residents in reception. Such a scheme rewards the resource-resourced, while those with poorer assumptions will be punished. I'm afraid such an arrangement will increase social and economic differences – and then create a subclass. The Center Party won't be a part of that. We therefore do not support the creation of so-called integration recipients. I want to commend the voluntary effort and commitment they have shown, especially when society was under great pressure last autumn. For the Centre Party, non-governmental organisations have an important, irreplaceable and valuable role in integration work, but also in other social arenas. The centre party will continue to work to ensure the volunteering of predictable resources so that they can continue the good work. The central party shares the government's view, that Norway must counteract the development of parallel societies and ghetto formations, as we have seen in Sweden and in other European countries. It is therefore surprising that the notification does not have a single concrete measure on how to promote scattered settlements across the country in order to avoid further concentration in immigrant urban areas such as Oslo. The centre party will stress the importance of the fact that agreed self-settlement in the municipalities must take place within the limits of the number of refugees that the municipalities have decided to accept and that the municipalities must approve the housing. Time after time, the cash support is made available to scapegoats by many parties. It is argued that cash support inhibits the integration of immigrant women. I would like them to stop pushing immigrant women in front of each time there is a discussion about the cash support. Now the government wants to set a five-year housing claim in order to be entitled to cash support. It doesn't support the Center Party. The proposal has a discriminatory element in itself, and I would like to point out that the Norwegian welfare systems should be universal. Cash support is not the main reason why immigrant women are at home with their children. There are mainly other issues, such as language, culture and barriers on the labour market, which explain to a greater extent why many immigrant women are at home. I see my speaking time is out. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Central Party is associated with the Socialist Left, and the proposal on the part of the Central Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e656	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e661	SV and the Center Party agree on many points in this setting, but SV has some suggestions to which the Centre Party has not joined. It's especially one of those I want to ask the representative, Mr. Greni, and it's about asking the government to increase the number of minority counselors in school. It's a system that was established when we were put in government together, and that is in order for minority students to have someone to go to if they experience either that they are being discriminated against and racism, or that they experience different types of social coercion and they don't have anyone else to talk to, and that you want someone who can be present and accept that concern. The system is evaluated, and it shows very good results, that it is very good help for some of these young people who are struggling to be in the middle of two cultures. What is the reason why the Center Party does not support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e668	SV promotes very many proposals, very many detailed proposals, on how to regulate many areas both in school and in society. For our part, it is important that municipalities organise this a little from local circumstances. We agree that many of these proposals have good intentions, but there will be a little bit of detail management when we look at some of them. In some municipalities, this may be a priority; in other municipalities, there may be other measures that should be given priority, but we have been together on many points that competence in this area must be at the heart of all public institutions, and the municipalities must ensure that they have the necessary auxiliary equipment in place in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e675	This is not a scheme financed by the municipalities. This is a system financed by the State, where such funds can be applied for. This is a system that was established when the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party put in government, it has been evaluated, and it turns out to be very good – a very good tool for these young people. I would therefore urge the representative, Mr Greni, to take a closer look at that very proposal. This is a message of integration, and these are some young people who are struggling with – feel that they may not quite belong here or there and struggle with it – and then we have to make sure that there are some people there who are competent and to whom they can go and talk and get help. It is often strenuous to be young if you are not going to have these challenges as well as not knowing who to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e680	I'm going to promise to take an extra look at the one proposal, and then I'm going to notify you later if we're going to support it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e688	The integration agreement, signed at Stortinget on 16 December, was an order for the government that included: followed up the message we have today. We are pleased that the basis for this communication is the desire for refugees to get faster in work or education. Sometimes a few impressions may be that the government prefers for refugees to sit as far as possible in reception. I am therefore pleased that there is a need for more effective integration policies. On some points, we would like to see it go further. Integration was the success of the Left in the asylum agreement we have concluded with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. This was never meant to be an elite reception for the few, but an offer for anyone who would stay in Norway. The need for integration measures is generally greatest in the least resource-intensive groups, so it is important that the government extends the system of integration reception to all. Language is essential for integration into society, and we are therefore disappointed that the government wants to cut Norwegian education. We are positive that a desire for more education in cultural and social knowledge in the receptions, but since that training is intended to take place in the mother tongue, we do not believe that there is a basis for cutting Norwegian education. We also wonder that a person should invest a lot of resources in teaching in different mother tongues rather than integrating training into Norwegian education. Here, however, we perceive that a broad majority in the United Kingdom believes it is important that training takes place in the mother tongue. Then the number of Norwegian hours must pass. Refugees' own efforts and knowledge have long been down-prioritised in the integration process of Norwegian refugees and asylum recipients. Integrating society and working life is too slow. The result is that people who wait several years for reception may lose valuable professional skills and motivation. At the same time, the government has large costs for administration, diet and lodging. Rapid handling is one of the most important integration measures we can take. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget in examining the government's proposals for tightening up the UDI's capacity to deal with cases more effectively, and also that the government should assess rapid progress in clear approval cases, in order to free up procedural capacity. There is an obvious potential for efficiency improvement here by distinguishing groups with a high probability of residence, as the government already does with asylum seekers with a high probability of refusal. Quick track is a proposal The Left pledged to the asylum negotiations in the autumn, and we are pleased that the majority subscribes to it. I hear some people think the proposal has so-called pull effect: an effective procedure makes Norway more attractive. At the same time, all proposals for faster integration must have pull effect. In other words, the whole communication presented by the government must have a pull effect, and in particular the proposal for integration. Fortunately, I have not realized that someone will tune down the whole message of fear for just this. For refugees coming to Norway, it is important to see the way forward into working life. It is important to be able to contribute and benefit from the way there. It is also the best basis for good and rapid integration into Norwegian society. This is about making demands, but as often about giving opportunities. Good inclusion requires language training and activities to start from the first day. People in asylum recipients can make an effort; they have both the competence and the desire to contribute to society around them. Both the state framework, the municipalities and the volunteering have to put up the work in such a way that they have an opportunity. The left has special involvement with children in general and with refugee children in particular. We are therefore pleased that the government gives more children the opportunity to go to kindergarten. We should like to see one go even further and equalize kindergarten children and schoolchildren. Kindergarten is the very best integration venue for children with refugee backgrounds, and it also promotes the integration of parents and provides the whole family with a valuable Norwegian network. Children who come here alone are a particularly vulnerable group. However, as the Communication points out, these young people are rapidly integrated into society. Three out of four between 18 and 29 are in work or education or in an introduction programme. Interestingly, the proportion of young people living in Afghanistan is highest in 2009–2010. After four years in Norway, they are at the level of peers in the population. In other words, the integration of children who come alone has been a success. That is why I am pleased that the proposal for temporary residence for all children who come alone was voted down during the treatment of Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Integratingly, the proposal would be a disaster. Children need security and predictability, and we need to develop further integration policies, which have been very successful so far. Increase in the number of children coming alone is a challenge for the receiver. To succeed in integrating those who came last year, as for those who came earlier, close follow-up is required. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget today asks the government to strengthen the pediatric competence throughout the reception chain. More young people, and not least younger children, require more intensive efforts. By strengthening our efforts towards children, we will also be able to build up the disappearance of children from reception. The left will not vote in favour of the proposal for Decision IX. We will support alternative proposals from the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 50. In addition, I address suggestions from the Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e714	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e717	SV is very happy that the rather relaxed integration message that came from the government is tightened up. We have worked very hard to get that done, and we have had a lot of success in the message. We're glad, because now we've wasted too much time on destructive approaches and symbolic scare policies. Now the whole committee agrees that we should improve integration, and it will benefit society, with increased value creation and better well-being, as it stands in a common note. I want to praise the parties that are now involved in this, because that just means what the representative Kapur was up to and said: a welcome culture. Then it's a little strange to hear the representative Keshvari go up afterwards and make an post that wasn't exactly welcome-culture-vomiting. Now the government and State Council have been told Listhaug to reverse and strengthen Norwegian training in reception, and not cut. There is no point in getting less Norwegian training and no more. The title of what we say to those who come here must be: Welcome here, learn Norwegian. Without Norwegian, you're out of the question. From the day one, Norwegian training should be announced and should be more comprehensive than today. If you're going to live in Norway, you're going to have to learn Norwegian. Therefore SV proposes a language billion. I wonder if the council is there, or if she still thinks that people should sit passively in reception, stare in the wall and learn to accept social security. Cut in Norwegian training is now being removed, it has been suggested by the Left, and SV is pleased with that clarification. Governments are told to take better care of young people, through better work organisation and more child-care skills throughout the chain. She has to establish independent supervision of the receipts so that the contracts are kept and the default is stopped. She has got marshmallows to speed up the system, so people who have received a yes-decision are settled faster. In the message there was almost no trace of working against extremism and stopping social coercion, which prevents equality and freedom. SV was pleased that we got a majority for this proposal. I now see that the majority backs. So this is about not supporting parallel societies, which many now have been very high on the path of saying is dangerous. That's what SV agrees with. Religions and religions are not fragile plants that need to be protected; they are power institutions that have power over people. It is the people who must be protected. Subjection and subordination requirements lead to abuse, we know that. Patriarchal traditions are disguised as religious commandments. The wave of dissenting minority girls must be followed by political action. I've been working on this since I started at Stortinget, and we have a long way left to meet these, be quite clear on their side, and I challenge the Council of State to be that. Then it's not just about talking bad about immigrants and refugees and being critical of them, but about standing up for those who speak up. We can't expect all young people to have the same courage as any of these girls. Then it's our job to put pressure on parents, challenge traditions and attitudes about girls' freedom. Excessive social control is often associated with conservative religious attitudes, and it is therefore important to put pressure on religious communities. We've asked for an investigation, and I hope the government will join us. One of the most important proposals to get started is to ensure that all children in kindergartens coming to Norway have kindergartens. If it's somewhere you learn Norwegian quickly, it's in the kindergarten. There is a place where parents meet other Norwegian parents who can show what it is like to be parents in Norway, and among others. That women work, it's in the kindergarten. So it's incredibly important that we get in place now that these kids get into kindergarten quickly. The second is that being a child and being on the run is an extreme, abnormal situation. Living in reception facilities is an extreme, abnormal situation for children, and these children should be allowed to live a normal childhood for a few hours a day. It will ensure better integration, it will ensure that many more in the family can do well in Norwegian, and it is an independent responsibility we should take because this is a child. SV has put forward many proposals in this Document 8, and we are getting a great deal of success in today's debate, and we are pleased about that. I would like to include the suggestions in the setting and inform you that SV will support the Left's proposal not to cut Norwegian training at reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e738	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e743	We're dealing with two things today. One is a proposal from, among others, the Commission. Representative Karin Andersen, who was promoted in December. SV argues, and writes in its comments, that this proposal was promoted because it was intended to bring about a commitment to integration. It was probably also at a time when it was known that there would be an integration message, but SV then thought – and writes in his comments – that this message would be too late. Then we are dealing with our own proposals today, at the same time as the communication on integration. SV has also chosen not to participate in the integration commitment agreement from January onwards. Does SV now recognise that there would be a strength, since, after all, there is going to be a very great deal of common policy in the integration work, if SV had not been on the sideline, but had rather participated as a committed partner in the integration agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e751	It would have been a strength if the majority had been willing to listen to the SV when we sat and negotiated this, and not accepted proposals that would damage the integration of those who are entitled to protection and who will be able to stay in Norway. That's the whole reason we didn't agree with that proposal, and most of those proposals have also now put the Storting away. In the integration agreement, in which we were not allowed to participate, there was one point we voted against – we promoted the proposal in Stortinget – and that was the point of tightening up family reunification. We are against this because we believe that it destroys integration. If you are to live in distress for your family and not be allowed to rot in Norway, it is bad for your integration. So yes, we believe that it was right, when it took so long to deal with our proposal, to deal with it with the message, too much is equal. I think the representative Jensen could have thanked SV. It's SV who actually has the credit that we're dealing with this big message on this side of the summer, because that's what we took the initiative to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e763	The refugee crisis is not a crisis for Norway; it is a crisis for those people who live where it burns and who have to flee to save themselves. For Norway, refugees are primarily an opportunity, and a good refugee and integration policy is an investment in realising these opportunities. We got that very well demonstrated in the line exchange between Keshvari and Raja representatives a little while ago. Let us not think when we deal with this message, that the refugee crisis has become less acute, even though there is a significant decline in the number of asylum seekers who are now coming to Norway. It is border controls in countries near us and far away from us that ensure that fewer people come to Norway, it is not fear-terrorism on the part of the government that takes care of it. Integrating vulnerable people who come to a new country requires first and foremost that all of us who are part of Norwegian society, including them, give trust and welcome, as the representative Kapur pointed out a little while ago. The most important thing is the personal meetings in the store, in the café, in the street, at home and at work. If we meet people with fear and prejudice because they are asylum seekers or immigrants, we will not succeed in integrating them. Nor will we succeed in making demands and getting those demands met, and we will not succeed in having expectations and thinking that they will be fulfilled. Then is the last thing we need, a state council that legitimizes fear, prejudice and exclusion by linking immigrants to concern for the future of children. That kind of rhetoric creates a distinction between us and them, which you shouldn't look far away or far back, in geography or in history, to see how dangerous it is, how toxic it is for the possibilities of including new people in Norwegian society. The government's proposal contains some good measures, and the Green Party would like to thank the Committee for further developing the measures with many new proposals, which will make the communication of integration and the decisions we are making today a good one in a number of areas. The Greens are particularly concerned that we get the very many people who sit in reception for too long, considerably faster into society. That is why we are pleased that, as far as we are concerned, it becomes a majority for faster treatment. It's a very sensible investment in better integration. We are pleased and support that there will be a strengthening of housing measures, and we support proposals for fast track and increased bet in kindergarten. The fact that people get into activity and get into paid work quickly is absolutely crucial. It's devastating to sit and stare in the wall at a reception for 12 or 14 months, and that's why we support it. removing the requirement for an asylum interview before granting a temporary work permit. Language, of course, is crucial. Norwegian training needs to be strengthened. We have to get back to at least 250 hours of Norwegian education, and we don't have to cut the number of hours, as originally suggested. 50 hours of cultural and social knowledge is a good suggestion, but it must be in addition to and not in place of language training. Then we will vote against IX in the vote, on the investigation of an opportunity to draw support to religious organizations that express things that we don't like in Norwegian society. We, as a party, are at least as concerned with combating intolerance as everyone else, but we are also a champion of freedom of expression, and that it should extend far. We are therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party has promoted an alternative and somewhat milder proposal, and we will consider voting subsidiaryly for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e785	I would ask the Green Party and the representative Hansson to read the original proposal a little more thoroughly, because it is not about censoring opinions at all. It is about being able to assess whether it is right to grant State aid to religious communities that are engaged in the pure repression of their members and in developing parallel societies, where members — especially women and children — are not allowed to have contact with others outside the community. I can refer you to a case in the newspaper about the congregation Society in Kristiansand, where reference is made to the fact that the children are not allowed to attend the 17th May celebration. Then you can ask if you should laugh or laugh. They also believe that ‘unnecessary use of external’ should not occur. Then I think we're gonna laugh, because it's about preventing children and women from participating in society. And that is what this proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e792	I have tried to get involved in the proposal. First of all, I have the greatest sympathy for the intention, and I am aware that the purpose of the proposal is that expressed by Andersen. The reason for my scepticism is that illegal acts are regulated by Norwegian law, and it is regulated in a good balance with the opening of freedom of expression. Women are allowed to remain silent in assemblies, and many other immaterial things in Norwegian society are permitted to be said. We must combat this in an open, democratic and tough debate. But I'm very sceptical about measures that focus on the political regulation of religious communities and other types of life-viewing societies, which can give a sense that we are driving a political regulation of the opinions of other peoples instead of using the law we have and will have, and can like to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e799	The proposal is not about opinions, it is about actions. It's about getting an investigation into whether there are any limits to what we're going to finance. Norway has very generous financial instruments, and it is not that religions are some fragile plants that do not tolerate criticism and that need to be protected. It must be the human beings to be protected. I do not buy the argument that it is dangerous to investigate this. It is by no means near limiting religious freedom. In principle, I believe that the state will not finance religious communities at all. That's not the majority for that. But then we have to make sure that it is right to fund all religious communities regardless of whether they exercise social control of their members, exercise pure oppression and not least develop parallel societies and prevent integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e806	I look forward to the debate on whether or not the state should finance religious communities. The problem associated with the proposal for Decision IX is its signal effect. Of course, we can suggest investigating anything from Stortinget, and we can say that it's completely non-committal – it doesn't matter, because it's just an investigation. We do that very often. Of course, there is no problem here, as the representative Karin Andersen points out, to carry out that investigation, but we in the Greens/Greens/EFA, and at least the representative Hansson – this is of course a debate in the party, but the representative Hansson has released himself on this issue – believe that the signal effect is important. Therefore, it is also important to consider the signal effect here from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e811	Now I have just had a conversation with some of the representatives here from both the Christian People's Party and the Right. They assure that this will be determined by the government in any case, because it is within their mission to explore the support of religious communities. If that's true, the investigation is already in progress. Then the representative, Hansson, must say that they will not be allowed to do so. I must have a clarification now from the government and from the government parties as to whether this is already in the mandate. If it does, it's different. But then it's a little strange to participate in this debate today, where it sounds like this is something awfully scary and strange SV has suggested. Because it's not. This is a review of the legislation today, because today’s legislation also provides for some of this. But it might look like it's not being practiced, and so you have to go through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e816	What the government chooses to do is what the government decides, and they don't ask the Green Party representative what I think about it. That is what Andersen, the representative, is doing by presenting this proposal, and I am taking a position on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e827	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e830	The basic plan of the government's integration policy is for immigrants to live and live in Norway to come to work, learn Norwegian, accept Norwegian values and become active citizens of society. The alternative to successful integration is non-life and often as passive recipients of public benefits. It affects the individual and challenges the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society. The welfare model developed in Norway through generations demands that we manage to create taxpayers of those who will live in Norway and prevent too many from living on public schemes. Norwegian society is in the middle of a big task. Never before have so many migrants come to Norway as last year, and never before have we had to integrate as many people who have stayed in Norway as they do now. In addition, many who have come to Norway in the past and have been granted refugee status are outside the labour market and are struggling to be integrated into Norwegian society many years after they have arrived here. Large groups of immigrants are out of work. Among African immigrant women, there are only 37.5 pst. linked to the labour market, towards 66 pst. among Norwegian women. These numbers are gloomy and show the whites what a big challenge we're facing. I would like to stress that integration is not quick-fix, which reminds me of every single time I visit municipalities and I am presented for the job done. Nor is it a task that we can succeed in without the individual being integrated and willing to put down the self-help that is necessary. No politician or anyone else can decide that someone is integrated. We can make arrangements, but the job has to be done to a large extent by the individual himself. The number to be integrated will be very important for how well we can succeed. That is why the tightening up adopted by the Stortingen last week is also an important premise for the success of integration policy. Many of those who come lack education. Some are illiterate and some lack work experience. Although you have both education and work experience, the leap to the Norwegian labour market can be formidable for many. The Norwegian labour market is characterised by a small number of unskilled jobs, and training is required to perform very many jobs. The pressure on the part of the labour market where you can enter without formal education will be high in the coming years. Success in integration is also about getting a good interaction between the individual, the state, the municipality, the business community and, in particular, volunteering. Among other things, I have have visited several communities that are making considerable efforts to accommodate people with a refugee background in Norway. Integration policy is important in order to avoid parallel societies characterised by lawlessness and open crime. We see that this is something that characterizes more countries in Europe. We've been spared this in Norway, but we'll never take it for granted. The government includes this Communication on new approaches to integration policy, a Communication that launches 69 solutions to achieve integration outcomes. Refugees and migrants coming to Norway are to be trained in Norwegian culture and social skills from one day to the next. Norwegian laws, regulations and values are something that everyone in Norway has to accept and deal with. Nobody puts their positions back on the frontier. That's why it's important. Integration receptions for those with a high probability of stay and motivation shall have a full-time programme and shall be able to initiate the introduction programme already in receipt. The government already wants to set up such receptions with about 500 seats this year. If this is a success, we'll create more of these receptions. The most important thing is the result. The government believes that instinctive and motivation are fundamental to successful integration. Therefore, we will reward those who are on and show results through the process of integration. If the result of self-help fails, we also believe that the reward should be missed. Too few immigrants are active in professional life, and only 15 pst. are in working practice within two years with an introductory programme. It's just to imagine being put in a classroom day in and day out for two years to learn language. Activity and practice are the key to learning languages and Norwegian working life. To do this, we want to introduce a requirement that practice be assessed on a case-by-case basis and combined with Norwegian training. We must bear in mind that the alternative to successful integration is passiveness and dependence on public benefits. Everyone living in Norway should have equal opportunities, but with opportunities and freedom it is equally natural to make demands. Therefore, we will require five years of residence to receive cash support, that immigrant women in maternity leave also participate in the training, and we will reward work and performance over inaction. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on much in integration policy. As responsible politicians, we need to think for the long term on behalf of the country and take action to preserve the Norwegian welfare model for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e861	Being able to Norwegian and being at work is crucial to succeeding in integration, and I think everyone agrees. Therefore, there are two things in the government's integration message that amaze me and worry me. One is the government's proposal to cut further in Norwegian training. This means that the government really wants to halve Norwegian training in asylum reception from last year to this year. The second is that the government has doubts about the cash support, despite the fact that it is a targeted measure to keep immigrant women out of work and their children outside kindergarten and SFO. I wonder: how in every day can a government council responsible for integration think this is a trick?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e872	It is always nice to listen to the Workers' Party when they talk about the cash support, which they themselves put and administered for eight years in government. With a simple majority behind you, you had every opportunity to remove the scheme. I registered that you didn't. When it comes to training and cutting Norwegian education, this government believes that the most important thing we have to teach people who come to the country is what Norwegian laws, regulations and values apply in our society. It is so important that we believe that the 50 hours now introduced should be given priority. So it's like you'd like to have more of everything, and it also seems to be embossing many of the proposals for the Workers' Party. But when you on the one hand criticize the government for spending too much money and for being too expansive in one way, and on the other hand criticise that you spend too little, it becomes a little bit difficult to deal with. We must give priority. We've done that here. We give priority to what we think is most important, and that is what a government must do at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e881	I wish the Workers' Party had a clean majority. I hope we get it after the next election, but I guess we won't. It is clear that the possibility of getting rid of the cash support had increased considerably if the country's second largest party had supported us in it. This is precisely about priority. If you are actually going to support yourself under the line of work, it would be a lot trickier to spend the money you spend today on cash support, on training, qualification and activity – for the population as such, but not least for those with a migrant background. The introduction of housing requirements for cash support is a mouse critique in the right direction, but the government cannot prove that it will actually have an impact on integration. And when we see that 50 pst. After ten years in Norway, I want to repeat my question: Why does the Progress Party think it is wise to hold the cash support at the same time as it is said that you will... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e892	Let me start by saying that we have absolute ambitions to become the country's second largest party, but we still have to work a little bit to get there. In the case of cash support, the Progress Party and the Government support the cash support. We want to carry it on. We believe it is important that parents have freedom of choice. We believe that parents should be able to choose anything other than having the kids in kindergarten. I have my own experience with it. I have used cash support myself to prevent my child from going to kindergarten for the first year. The next time, I chose kindergarten, but I liked to have that freedom of choice, and I think many Norwegian grandchildren have that. Then there are challenges to it as well, and we have to solve that. This is why the government has, among other things, The first five years in Norway should not be allowed to receive cash support. That means that the source of income falls away, and that's also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e899	I've had the pleasure of teaching Norwegian youth in culture and society for over 20 years – it's a subject that's called – so I'm very excited about the educational content, what we're going to tell the new ones about Norwegian culture and society. But I think it is a good proposal, and it has also received a relatively good reception in the municipalities. But just from the municipalities there are some questions about how expensive this will be, and whether it will be difficult to implement in the mother tongue of everyone who comes. It is clear that this is a demanding promise, because in the receptions there are now people with much more languages than there are among those who live in the municipalities. It may be that a worker is struggling to obtain teaching skills, and that is to be paid out. Does the Council have an overview of the cost of this scheme, and is the Council open to other solutions, possibly linking it to Norwegian education, so that there is a more flexible solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e906	Now we're going to work on the concrete way in which this is going to be done, and we want to get to the most effective way of doing it. I had a meeting with Vox at the latest this week to discuss just these questions, and I am going to engage strongly in both the content and the way this is to be carried out in the best possible way. Of course, I am also concerned that it should be as cost-effective as possible. As regards the coverage, we have suggested in this message that we use money that otherwise goes to Norwegian training, to finance these hours. We believe that within that framework it should be fully possible to make such an arrangement. As a teacher, I'm also very interested in getting a setup that's going on out there, and maybe both use distance learning as part of it – of course, it's also important to have discussions between the participants – and get a setup that makes those who want to learn about our values remain with good knowledge afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e915	«From reception to work – an effective integration policy», the Communication. Governments are therefore concerned with effective integration policies, and that is good. But it looks like it's taking two steps forward and one back. The Communication proposes inter alia: integration and reward schemes, but only for the most resource-intensive. Unfortunately, lessons for culture and social literacy are to be taken from Norwegian education. With the solutions presented by the Council of State, these seem to be measures for the few resources, while those with poorer assumptions — immigrant women, those with low skills, illiterates, etc. – remain standing, with the risk of ending up as a social welfare beneficiary. What action does the Council of State intend to take to help those who are furthest away from the labour market, those who are not qualified to enter the so-called integration recipients?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e922	I am absolutely in favour of an effective integration policy, although I am very careful all the time to talk about that this is not a quick fix. I don't know where Mr. Greni got it from, that it's just the most resource-intensive people going into these integration receivers. What we've said is that they're the most motivated, they're going to have to go in there, and that the requirements of course have to be based on what you can achieve, that's the starting point for the individual. For some it will take many years, it will be a long canvas to bleach. I myself visited Norwegian illiteracy training in Tønsberg, where I got a little introduction from the teacher on how it was species. It's a long canvas to bleach and something that takes time. For this reason, the Government of this Communication has inter alia: proposed that a longer period be used for the introduction scheme, that one may extend it to several years for those who need it. It will help those who are the furthest away from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e930	People are able to change their behavior — including the ability of immigrants to learn and change. What kind of rhetoric we use against a group has a lot to say -- maybe it's crucial for what kind of change we can expect. With respect for the Council of State, the rhetoric she has committed has been subject to strong criticism from many different sides. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that she can succeed better in the work she is assigned to do, if she builds up genuine care for the immigrant population and shows that she is a co-player? Will it be a better strategy if the goal is to succeed, or is it better to appear to be an enemy in an environment you want to change? Does the Council of State need to adjust the course of rhetoric anything, perhaps just please-please a little bit?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e937	I have the ambition to continue to point out what is the reality, to address the challenging issues, and to point out what should be a discussion in public space. I mean, as a society, we serve on it. We've seen what happened in Sweden, where they swept many issues under the carpet. It hasn't been very well there. We see the development of both parallel societies and a lack of public debate. I will continue to hold a public debate and to address the difficult issues. But then I'm busy meeting many of the people involved, talking to them, getting to know how it's going, and what are the challenges. That's why I've already visited many receptions and many counties, and I have the ambition to continue that journey, just to learn more about the integration work that's going on around. There are non-governmental organisations, communities and municipalities that are together in order for us to succeed in this work. So I don't have any enemies, but I'm a demanding lady who makes demands on people, and I'm going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e946	I think the state council posts today were held in a tone that was good. That, I think, helps well with integration. It helps to feel that you're accepted and respected, sail if you can disagree. I'm very pleased with what the Council of State says she wants to change and make the introduction program more flexible, because some people need longer time. It's quite obvious. The need to invest more in Jobjesen, in differentiated intro programmes, etc., is also very important, and in line with what SV has proposed. SV has proposed a comprehensive integration package based on NOU 2011:14, Better integration. One of the points pointed out there is that you need area bets, as we've had before, and as the government now wants to phase out. You also want to give a very strong warning against, for example: the system of differentiated childcare payments, because it locks people in a poverty trap. If you get a job and make money, you lose a good one. Is that what the Council of State sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e955	Now it was a little difficult to see the question, because the representative addressed many issues. But I'm glad we agree on something. It's not that often we are, but in the integration field, it's important that we agree on the big lines. The fact that we focus on the line of work – the fact that people get out of work faster – is incredibly important, also in order to get job training. In the case of children, we have specifically proposed in this Communication of Integration that the two- and three-year-olds who are in reception and who have been accommodated should also be admitted to kindergarten and thus become part of the local environment where they are located. It is important that children are quickly integrated. I have, as I was inside, visited many receptions, and it is impressive how quickly the children learn the language. There are many I've met, who have only been here a few weeks, and who are already doing well both speaking fluently and learning words and songs. It's fun to see, and there's something to bring with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e964	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e967	When we talk about welcoming, as we do to a great extent in the neighborhoods where I live, in the Groruddalen, where the majority have a minority background, it's about wanting to welcome and living together also about putting up for each other and caring for each other. It's showing respect. Being friends is getting involved in each other's lives, including those that fall outside. The big message we are discussing today has a title that concerns the labour market, and there are some groups I have particular concerns about participation in the labour market. Statistics of the Statistical Central Office of 9 May this year show that among first-generation women from specific countries, participation in the labour force is severely low. Among Somali women, it's 22 pst. participation in employment, according to the SSB. Among women from Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan, the corresponding figure is above 30 pst. Compared to women from countries such as Sri Lanka and India, where there are no active environments for Islamist extremism, labour participation is two to three times higher. Then we have to assume that there is a pressure, a culture, some issues in the former environments. We have to support those women. It's not to take anyone, but we have to support those women, give them tools to resist the pressure, so that they get a clearer view and can give clearer notice to those who push them, that they have to say yes to action Nav comes with, to work life. Although alcoholic beverages are sold, for example: beer, in a shop, in a hotel or in a restaurant, whether it is sold meat that is not halal, or you somehow have to be in contact with men, you have to accept the job. They have to know that it's the rule of Norwegian society to have an income. We want to support those women who can say clearly from those who pressure them, that's the way it is. I'm absolutely sure that most people want to set up, want to contribute, want to work. This worries me. I visited an employment training course for women where I experienced these problems closely. I have later asked myself about this at Nav employees, who tell me about this, and then often anonymously. But Nav leaders have also expressed this, among other things. service director Bjørn Gudbjørgsrud, in an article series in the Evening Post in 2014. I experience conversations, at the latest a week ago, with Nav employees who tell me that they are discussing this much, and that there is uncertainty about how they are going to deal with it when someone says no to action for different religious reasons. It is clear that it should be a judgement, but if that judgement becomes very different from case handler to case handler, from department to department and from office to office, there is an uncertainty that is not good, and that the extreme environments present in some parts of our society can give the impression that it is possible to follow the religious rules, and press the women further. I think it's important that we're positive, that we care, that we want to be welcome and are good friends, but then we also have to talk about those kinds of challenges. I'd say it's my best friends where I live, who tell me about these things. We need to talk about it. In view of, for example: Sweden and parallel societies are the biggest mistake we can make, not to talk about it. We create prejudices if people don't feel we're talking about this in a credible way. I am very pleased that the Municipal Committee in Stortinget is taking it up unanimously in the position today. Of course, there may be other issues than those I'm addressing. It is a unanimous attitude of the municipal committee to ask the government to draw up clearer guidelines for those who work in the first line of Nav in this field. I had an interpellation debate with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, where she said, among other things. would look at the People's Security Act and provide a basis for these guidelines to be made clearer in the first line. This is not to take any or to create contradictions, but on the contrary to reduce contradictions and provide the basis for all groups to be able to participate fully in the world of work. I believe that we must also stand up for those who are pressured by extreme environments, no matter where they belong, whether they are on one side or the other side of politics or in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e984	I will continue where the representative Bøhler left off. Some of the issues that have been most controversial in Norwegian policy are related to women’s freedom and rights – about women’s voting rights, about women’s right to marry whomever you want, about women’s right to decide over their own bodies, about women’s professional participation and about women’s priests and bishops, to mention some issues that have aroused great commitment and strife and that continue to do so. Gender equality issues remain the subject of debate in 2016 and partly of sharp political contradictions. That's unfortunate, because not least in mainstreaming, gender equality is a prerequisite for success. Being economically independent is essential for choosing your own life, and fortunately for most in Norway, it is a matter of course. This is not least due to the fact that Norwegian women are at work. The vast majority of women between the ages of 20 and 64 are in paid employment. The way in which we have organised ourselves in Norway with strong tripartite cooperation and a work environment law that protects workers’ ability to combine work and family life remains important for success. Women are more important to the Norwegian welfare state than the oil is. If Norwegian women had worked as little as the average in OECD countries, values corresponding to the entire Norwegian oil industry would have been lost. Thus, the high level of female participation creates great values for Norwegian society, but there are even more who could have participated. You have 66 pst. of women aged 15 to 74 in Norway, the figure is only 58 pst. Among immigrant women, and it is too low, both because society misses important values, and not least because it limits the personal freedom of these women, and because it hinders good integration. So we have to have higher ambitions on behalf of immigrant women. If we're to succeed in integrating, we have to build barriers that shut people out of work, and make ways that lead into it. Four out of ten cash beneficiaries have a migrant background. That cash support inhibits integration by keeping immigrant women at home is well known and well documented. Now the government has also realized that. On the first page of the integration message: «Unrequired cash benefits may help to make participation in the labour market less profitable, or directly unprofitable.» Then the question is, why does the government not stand out and remove the entire cash support? So you take a small step in the right direction by demanding that you have lived in Norway for five years before you can get cash support, but earlier in our government I asked what kind of effect this is expected to have on the proportion of immigrants who receive cash support, and what kind of professional basis the government is based on. I have not received an answer to that – on the contrary, the answer confirms what we all agree on: ‘The government is committed to mainstreaming the importance for women of becoming economically independent and integrated into Norwegian society through good education and active participation in the labour market.’ I could say, Amen! But in the integration message, it's impossible to get an eye on what will lead us in that direction, and it's not useful to say that you have to make demands when you do the opposite in practice, as the government does. Cash support is a heavy economic incentive for the removal of employment, and there is also an important signal about Norwegian values, standards and attitudes, of which the government is very concerned in other contexts. But not here. In Norway, we have done well with gender equality because we have schemes that enable us to combine work with family life. It's about maternity leave, father's allowances, and it's not least children's playgrounds. That is why we in the Workers' Party believe that all children in asylum reception should have children's playgrounds because it will have a positive effect on integration, but it is also important to remove the kindergarten queue as such in the rest of society. It is a more important priority, and it builds up below the working line, as opposed to the cash support, which prevents it. Do your duty, and demand your right, it has always been an important foundation for the Workers' Party. This must be a requirement from the first day of reception of asylum. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1014	A good colleague, Jette Christensen, as I see sitting in the hall now, wrote the following text to the picture of five colorful ladies on Facebook yesterday: common to the wise ladies I met on Furuset, is that they want to work, they want to learn better Norwegian and they want to participate. Then it's our job to make it possible. I, like most other politicians, including the Council of State, have heard us now, have met the same attitude and attitude every time we meet immigrants and refugees who are newcomers, or are on the introduction program, for example. Then I must admit that the contrast becomes great to the tone and the leftover impression of the representatives of the Progress Party. They focus on a negative starting point in debates and in public space, and it's about this being a big problem, and if they don't want to, they have to. Understood: they don't want to learn Norwegian, they don't want to work. But the truth is another. The vast majority will learn Norwegian and earn their own money, but there are many obstacles that make it difficult, and these are obstacles that politicians can do something about. So let's work on developing a good integration policy instead of suspecting a large group of people. So how does it make it possible for all the many immigrants who have been here for a week or many years to get a platform on which they can live good, independent and free lives? The debate here is showing a long list, and I want to take for myself one area in particular, and that's education. Norway has a good education system, which is free of charge all the way and which helps ensure that this country has a competitive business. We have a well-functioning public sector, and very many people in Norway live good, happy lives. It is the Scandinavian welfare state, which is unique in the world, that provides for this. But that doesn't mean that education taken abroad, elsewhere, is of poor quality. Many who come to Norway have a long and good education behind them; they have vocational or university studies with them in the suitcase. And naturally, they'll put education into practice, which is also a good idea for our society. In general, we need people with competence, almost regardless of the type of vocational education, the Bachelor's degree or the Master's degree. And we need entrepreneurs and people who want to start for themselves, which many in this group want. However, if this is to be implemented in practice, it is essential that the recognition schemes for foreign education and training and professional qualifications are simplified and improved. It is NOKUT that is responsible for the recognition of foreign education and it is positive that the government will establish a common information point and a common web portal for applications for professional authorisation. But that's not enough. The joint task of rapid monitoring of competences launched last autumn was actually cancelled when the government's response was a web portal. Lack of evidence is often a problem, and it often has natural causes when you flee from civil war countries. However, it is possible to recognise education by other methods, which NOCUT has worked systematically and well with. They're ready to do more of the mapping work, they're ready to go out to reception, because there's a lot of thousands there, and they're waiting. They are waiting for decisions if possible, and they are waiting for a municipality to live in – and the waiting time can be used much better, not least to monitor competence. The Labour Party is impatient, and we have several concrete measures: we will simplify the recognition of qualifications and facilitate the inclusion of recognised education. The lack of recognition of foreign education in Norway, together with monitoring in reception, needs to be identified. Training and training activities should then be developed and organised to close this gap in order to obtain an approved degree that can be used rapidly. In particular, it is important to identify needs and wishes for secondary education before residence in the municipalities, so that younger students are provided with an adequate range of good training where they are to live. Here the county should have a clear and clear role since they are responsible for our secondary education and vocational schools. It is missing today, and the government should contact that job as soon as possible. The number of people moving to Norway is becoming increasingly important in some cases. Most come from Europe, from other EU/EEA countries. Many also come from the rest of the world, either as refugees or immigrants through marriage or work. Because of this, NOKUT needs to be strengthened, as the Labour Party has proposed, with appropriations in the current state budget, so that they get the capacity needed to do a good and quality job. And then I think out on reception, as they themselves suggested. But I think it's stupid when we don't get to do anything about this, because it's a waste of resources, a waste of human resources. Especially stupid is the fact that so many people who want to work are inactive. They want to learn Norwegian, and they want to use their knowledge and competence. But after listening to Mr. Keshvari and Councillor Listhaug's posts, I don't think it seems like they think it's so very stupid, and it doesn't seem like they have a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1033	Last week there were tightenings, today integration. Last week the press house was full, today there are a few particularly interested. Last week, the majority of the population declined to be more temporary for single minors, five years before permanent residence and three years of work or training for family reunification. That is good, because it would make integration more difficult. In the debate last week, I referred to the recommendations of the Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner, Nils Muižnik, in his speech to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in April. He warned against individual Member States becoming less attractive by cutting social benefits, seizing assets, limiting family reunification and providing temporary residence. He called it a misguided policy that won't slow down the flow of refugees, just inhibit integration. The driving forces are not pull, but push. In the problem note of May 2016 he mentions some prerequisites for work and good integration: family reunification, permanent residence, language and social training, citizenship, recognition of education and real skills, equal rights to education, the prohibition of discrimination, and, last but not least, political and other participation in society. Although he also has some critical comments about Norway, we do not seem to be getting very bad. Title of Reporting. St. 30 for 2015–2016, From reception to working life — an effective integration policy, therefore, should inspire us to climb upwards on the European ranking of inclusive societies, not downwards. The world's best country to live in must be for everyone. We don't need to increase social differences, but less. We all earn that. For the Workers' Party, integration is based on the equal value and equal rights of all people. Otherwise we will not succeed. Then we have one more prerequisite: the obligation we each have to contribute to the community with the assumptions we have. “Do your duty – demand your right” is not empty words. Those who come to Norway are a resource we most need. Then they'll have to get to it. Then we build trust and dampen unnecessary contradictions. Then there are some obvious reason why the message refers to. Language is a prerequisite for integration. Language training must then be strengthened, not weakened. It must start early, in reception. Reception time must be short. Municipalities must move quickly. Dwellings are needed, children's playgrounds are also needed. The Labour Party is promoting proposals that will improve it, unfortunately not all will be adopted. Work for everyone is job number one and a key to integration. Leisure activities for children and adults come as a good number two. If we believe that language training in work practices is better than the classroom theory for adults, the consequence must be space for action and sufficient work. We have to be able to build on, not reset, the competence of refugees, but it's a chapter of sorrow so far. The Labour Party is also promoting proposals on this subject. Something has been mentioned. They have proposed a common multi-national rapid procedure for the recognition of foreign competence. In Document 15:372 this year, the Minister of Knowledge replied to questions from the Labour Party that the government has not assessed this. Maybe it should reconsider that. The message shows that immigrants come to work but fall out faster than others, women more frequently than men. Such knowledge is known to have, but has little value if we do not ask why and apply measures to counteract it. Is it so simple that refugees come from countries with a lower average life expectancy than here? Because they work more often in physically heavy professions? Because they have serious health problems no one has done anything about? Or simply because they're the last in and so first out of constraints? We need to know and then act. A cross of thought at the end: 21 March 2013 we discussed Report. St. 6 for 2012–2013, A comprehensive integration policy – diversity and community. I looked at my post from then on, and I could keep the same post today without anyone stunning the least. Our message was based on the Kaldheim Committee, which in turn referred to investigations on investigations, and concluded that there was now time for systematic, consistent and long-term action – implementing actions we know benefits. We still have the same challenge: to get rid of all the concepts, ‘it should’, ‘we need’ and ‘it needs’, and just get it done. When the representative Kapur believes that the Workers' Party must find itself in a bit of history, I say thank you for that. When the Drammen in the 1990s dealt with his urban government message The art of being a dramatist, adopted in 2000, qualification for participation was the key. The introduction center and the introduction program became one of the measures, and I remember very well the day I was standing in the door and wanted to welcome Municipal Minister Erna Solberg and was a little proud to be allowed to contribute to new national policies in a very important area for the city I came from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1056	Governments had an important point in their posts. She said that in order to maintain our welfare systems, it is important that as much as possible be at work. That's true of all of us. Unfortunately, Nav’s figures show that unemployment is three times as high among first-generation immigrants as among the rest of the population. It is worrying that only six out of ten immigrants who have completed the introduction programme as it is today are at work. We can't have a society where a large part of the newcomers stay out of work and become dependent on social security benefits to live. It has to be new. It is therefore gratifying for the government to provide an integration message, from reception to work, which places such emphasis on the need for those who come to us to enter the labour market. The importance of work is central, yes, it is a red thread. I am particularly pleased that attempts are now being made with their own integration receivers, and that social skills are becoming part of the training programme. It is doing very well today, and I would like to mention some examples from my home municipality Drammen. We know that parents are going to get into work, it's important with kindergarten. The municipality of Drammen was one of the first municipalities in Norway to introduce free core time into kindergartens for families with a total income of less than NOK 417 000. It's now expanded to full kindergarten. So it is possible to do so even if we have cash support. I remember the Workers' Party. In the municipality of Drammen you have a project, Mountain 2020, which is meant to lift the district of Fjell, a town in Drammen that has a large share of immigrants. I want to draw up a project that deals with women, it has more people in the pulpit mentioned today. It's a project called Jobjeansen. The target group is women who have been out of work for several years, and motivation for work is part of the programme. The individual’s competence is monitored, and the arrangements for tailoring it. Norwegian labour-oriented training is part of the measures. Many women with a migrant background have health problems that prevent them from going to work. Therefore, the monitoring of female health is important, and both mental health and diabetes problems have many immigrant women who have been isolated. What's happy is that 67 pst. of the participants in this programme came out to work. It shows that systematic action is useful in following up the individual. It is also another good offer: Job hunting. It is a three-week intensive course for those who have become unemployed. It has also produced good results. Integration often starts with children and children in school and kindergarten. That's where parents meet. In the project Mountain 2020, there is leisure provision for children over four years of age at the end of the SFO and the goal is mastering, identity and language. Learning aids and food are part of this, because it is important to be able to speak Norwegian outside of school and to be with children outside their own. It's a great collaboration with the Drammen Sports Council on activities in this project. It is important that all municipalities address environments that are beginning to isolate themselves. It has emerged in the media that some young people in Drammen spend their entire leisure time at a school run by the Islamic Cultural Centre. The municipality follows this closely in cooperation with the school, police and coordinator who is working on prevention. The community is so open that it's good that this comes out. Integration is about being a part of society. It doesn't mean giving up your own culture and identity. It's about being accepted, but also accepting. I believe that the key to this is to participate in the working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1077	There are clear lines between government and the Labour Party’s policies – not only in economic policy, criminal care policy, employment policy or school policy, but also in the ambitions we have on behalf of the country. Where we will be in the front line and be the best in the world, the Right Party and the Advance Party are content to have ambitions not to be in the elite division – such as in climate, equality, criminal care and inclusion. The policy has moved slightly to the right of the right. Where the Workers' Party has ambitions to create a world-class inclusion, we experience that the Right is on a journey that goes in the opposite direction. Further cut in language training and cut in daily pay are two practical measures that hamper not promoting inclusion. The outside company would end with the Right in government. What is the result after three years? Well, the alienation from our most important community – work – has never been bigger. The economic differences are increasing. The working party assumes that those who come here are like most of us. They want to contribute what they can. And those I know want to do just that. They will be required to contribute, and they will have clear boundaries. They will learn Norwegian language and Norwegian culture. They don't want the system to be exploited, because it destroys others. This is not unlike the struggle the Workers' Party waged for exploited workers once in a while: Do your duty, and demand your right. Such challenges have been solved by the Labour Party and the trade union movement in the past. Work for all is the main objective of all residents in Norway, regardless of how they got here. Several of the government’s actions make it more difficult to become part of the Norwegian community, such as the cash support proposal and the halving of language training. In Kristiansand there are some good examples. Choice Hotels and the Reception School have agreed on a class that receives both work and language training at the same time. A youth home is established for lone minors. There they meet, they lecture, they meet with Norwegian youth, and they meet with health professionals and police, who work with prevention. In the Workers' Party we want to use just the good experience from previous work to succeed. We want to listen to newcomers and together find actions that work, cooperate with professional organisations and non-governmental organisations to do more and not less of what works. We have to do more and not less of what gets people to work, more and not less of what teaches newcomers Norwegian. This is why we choose different from the government in some areas: a local economy that takes into account the challenges of giving newcomers the same opportunities, of volunteering to create strong communities, of providing kindergartens for all, and not least of all of ensuring a common school where all children meet and play together. But everyone's security and security is also about preventing environments that hamper people's free lives, which threaten the security of people and the state. In that work we need the newcomers and all of us who have lived here for a while. The SLT work in the municipalities needs to be strengthened. Preventive police work is good, but one needs a further boost because that action is not adequately funded by the government. Finally, I would like to mention a good example of good preventive SLT work. Alason Abdullahi of Kristiansand has been a driving force in establishing a transnational, multidisciplinary and interpersonal action, which is about bringing young people, parents, schools, police and auxiliary workers together, so that both parents and young people are confident that they have a place to turn when they suspect that it is something that is not good – either with their own children, or in their own environment. Cooperation with the religious environments is very good, and it is a prerequisite for dialogue with these environments, and for us to come into a position where powerful means can be put in place so that no one, not even in those environments, will be oppressed and will not be able to live free lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1099	This message is clear on the focus we need on integration. An effective and good integration policy is about how we can better accommodate refugees and immigrants. If you don't get into work, you lose so much more, socially, culturally and economically. Earning your own money, owning your own home, having contact with others and being able to use your language are important factors in integration. In this Communication, the Government has proposed a number of measures that will contribute to better integration. It is about launching the integration work as soon as possible for all those who are likely to be allowed to stay. For this reason, the integration of motivated asylum seekers is an exciting step. Here there will be contracts with obligations and requirements in an intensive programme. Four to five such receptions shall be established in 2016 with a total of 500 places. The proposal for a temporary work permit for asylum seekers who cooperate in clarifying their identity and who have a high probability of staying is also very positive. Too many people become inactive in reception and wait for an asylum interview. This action will promote integration and help more people to get their lives moving faster in this country. The introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants is a good one, and that is important. People who are allowed to stay need to know what they are going to and are being helped into an active professional and social life, but more emphasis should be placed on labour-oriented measures. Norwegian education and other training in municipalities should strengthen each other rather than compete. It is important to learn Norwegian, but it must not prevent the possibility of getting to work. Training and employment measures must be coordinated so that those who move here from a completely different culture can become a natural part of our society more quickly. We can't afford it to take many years before immigrants are qualified for work. Norwegian and training in Norwegian culture and social sciences is important. This is why the proposal for a 50-hour course in Norwegian culture and social skills for asylum seekers is well received. Learning about Norwegian society, Norwegian laws and regulations and our way of living will be of great help to more people in their transition to society, and not least how to deal with society's rules of play. I also want to focus on this with everyday integration and volunteering. The government challenges us all to take part in the great hard work of helping our new neighbours and countrymen to get to know the Norwegian community. In my home municipality, Asker, some firemen have taken that challenge. At the asylum reception in Dikemark, a friend association called DIAS friends is established. They work to enable residents of the reception centre to be active, to use their knowledge and experience and to build skills and networks and to learn Norwegian. Refugees are helped to try their way to work or to work on a voluntary basis. DIAS friends have supporters from both politics, business, the municipality of Asker and non-governmental organisations. Integration work is also a lot about working in the long term. I have met many immigrants who have lived in Norway for a long time and who have received Norwegian citizenship, but who still feel that they are not full members of Norwegian society. It's sad. With a different skin color and a foreign name, more people do not experience being called to the job interview even if they are qualified. We want everyone to do and work on changing attitudes and practices, because unfortunately it is a fact that unemployment among first-generation immigrants is three times as high as for the rest of the population, according to Nav numbers, and that should worry us all. We have to learn from the recipe of DIAS friends in Asker and all the other fires around the country that have contributed to good everyday integration. It's about getting to know our new citizens. They must be invited into our social arenas and meeting places and be involved in shaping the Norway of the future. No one's earned the experience of being on the outside and not belonging to the Norwegian community. People who come here and become active participants in social life and working life will be involved and contribute to creating a better Norway with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1118	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1121	Hardly any country has better prospects for successful integration than what we have here in Norway. We have the resources that can be deployed in language training, work training, skills enhancement and cultural learning. If we use our resources properly and wisely, we will achieve that those who come to Norway become self-sufficient, pay taxes and contribute positively to the local environment and to the workplace. Values that have shaped Norwegian society over time must form the basis for integration – democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality and equivalency are fundamental values in our country. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands. The starting point must be that everyone is going to be part of the social contract – do your duty and demand your right. It's an old slogan that lives in the best of luck and really gives a very good summary. Local authorities must be given real opportunities to actually master the task of good integration. It is in the municipalities that language is to be taught and it is to be settled. It is in the vicinity of our new countrymen to participate in the volunteering and become part of a living community. Therefore, municipalities have to be compensated for the extra costs they receive from their housing and integration. Therefore, the local economy must be strengthened in the coming years and not weakened. And that's why we have to have a fair distribution of the settlement between the municipalities that makes sure that we can actually settle according to the need that exists. Therefore, the proportion that municipalities have to pay for child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers must also be removed. It is up to the municipalities to ensure that Norway succeeds in integration. Then we also have to be sure that the municipalities are actually able to do the job Stortinget and society expect otherwise. Then there is also a great responsibility on the social partners to participate in integration. If we are to succeed, the refugees must be included in normal working life as soon as possible. Wages and salaries subsidies can be such an instrument, and wage subsidies will be a good tool for bringing jobseekers into closer contact with the real world of work. Then it's important to realize that such participation in integration is universal. In other words, refugee rules apply to all, and rules that apply to all also apply to refugees. We have to say that we can do this, because the option is not valid. It turns out that societies that focus on inclusion, justice, rights and obligations will be successful in the coming years. But as I said, we have to make demands, but we also have to make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1134	Magdi and Chirag, Yosef and Tshawe, Haddy N’jie, Kadafi Zaman, Moa, Carew, Shazia Sarwar, Yama Wolasmal, Mah-Rukh Ali, Hadia Tajik, Mudasar Kapur, Mazyar Keshvari, Shabana Rehman, Usman Rana, Bushra Ishaq, Shakeb Syed, Iram Haq, Ulrik Imtiaz Rolfsen, Assad Siddique, Haitam Aleesami, Stella Mwangi, Ezinne Okparaebo, Wasim Zahid, Sylo Taraku, Abu, Dilek Ayhan, Sundeep Singh, Adil and Deeyah Khan, Nico & Vinz, Olav Chen, Leo Ajkic, Marco Elsafadi, Sumeet Singh, Iman Meskini, Markus Bailey, Lan Marie, Nadia Hasnaoui, Sarah Nata Melbye, Shad Johanna, Lubnai. These are a few people I've mentioned the name of among the most famous Northmen with browner skin color, among the most successful examples that it goes on. There is a small number I have mentioned, but – if I have to say – you remove these, we are standing back as a poor nation. I want to say to the whole Progress Party: Stop trying to make us poorer. Among the asylum children in Norway are both future Hadia Tajiks, a John Carew, a Chirag Patel. Our task is not to talk them down, make enemy images of them, but to let them live out their entire potential. It's our job as politicians. It's also the task of the Council of State. Here it is a great potential among asylum seekers. There's a lot of energy. If you've managed to fight away from despotism and oppression, ready to overcome persecution and get over continent to Norway, you've got an extreme amount of energy in it, which can be used for anything. And we, we're killing that energy by putting people passively into reception, where we're wasting our human energy and resources. Passive parents give up passive children in the next round, and here we have a lot of work ahead of us. If we succeed in integrating into Norway, we also succeed as a nation. What if we fail? We should also dare to think about that. Ghettos, parallel societies, extremism — examples that we see in England, France, Belgium, Sweden — are examples of warning, and we in Norway are not there. The Progress Party must stop pretending that we are. We are not going there either, and then we also have to do something with our rhetoric if we are to succeed in this. I gave that call to the Council of State in my question to her instead. She did not take that invitation on her tight arm, but she has the summer vacation to think a little about. For rhetoric, behaviour changes, and that rhetoric should be best of the one with the greatest responsibility for this, precisely this Council of States. So use the summer vacation to think please, please, a little bit of it, Councillor – if I may report it, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1147	This spring young girls have rebelled against social control and honorary culture in Muslim environments. We know that conservative interpretation of Islam is used as an excuse to control young girls in an unacceptable way, and we know that there are still people who experience impunity in Christian religious communities. A new generation of tough feminists clearly tell us: The women's struggle must be for all Norwegian girls. And those who demand freedom must receive support from Stortinget. That is why SV has promoted the proposal which has been unanimously endorsed by the Municipal Committee. We ask the government to explore the possibilities of withholding support for religious communities in cases where crime is encouraged or when other serious conditions are revealed. Just the fight against social control and honour culture was an important reason why we promoted this proposal. The girls have had the courage to say from, and they must see that the Storting has the courage to act. There is no doubt that this proposal is about thought politics or is jeopardizing freedom of faith. One should believe and say that one will in Norway, if it is never so reactionary. But you do not have the right to get money from the state, no matter what you do with the money. In Norway, we have a very voice system for supporting religious communities, but we make very few demands. This proposal is not about taking money from those who do not want to marry homosexuals or not hire female priests – even if I have strong opinions about it. It's about investigating the possibilities to cut back support for religious leaders who are responsible for gross oppression, and who use their religious authority to take freedom from other people. Then it is alarming if the Stortinge today shaves that proposal and removes what is involved in serious matters other than pure crime. Think of what kind of a signal it is to give! The signal will be that the Storing is more afraid to drag religious leaders on their toes than eager to support people who are fighting oppression in religious environments. There are related dilemmas and enforcement and demarcation challenges. That is why we have promoted an investigation proposal. Time is overdue to try to get this done, and in meeting a dilemma, we have to ask ourselves, what's the most weight for us? And I'm less afraid that we're going to challenge religious communities too much than we're going to support those who fight social control, too little. We must be more concerned with supporting people who are oppressed than with fear of stumbling people who have power. To me, it's taking liberal principles seriously, and it's not having the courage to do it, which is illiberal. I would strongly encourage the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Green Party to think about what kind of signal they are sending. We stand by our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1160	The President is absolutely sure that the representative, Audun Lyssbakken, can find another expression than ‘doubt’ in his next posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1163	«From reception to work» is a good name for a great integration message. Personally, I like the concept of inclusion better. There is a much more positively charged term that signals active participation from everyone. As an alternate, I want to use my speaking time to share some concrete local experiences that are transferable from a national perspective. In my home municipality of Sunndal, it is a large municipal asylum recipient. The municipality houses many refugees and has its own immigration service. The reception is in my neighborhood, and I know many asylum seekers and refugees. They want to learn Norwegian and get a job. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government will cut off Norwegian training. At the nursing home, where I am a nurse, we have many immigrants in language practice, under training, as extra guards and as permanent employees. They're on, they're duty-fulfilling, and they have little absence. Many refugees want to take a professional letter, especially in health and construction. That's very good. Competence and labour Norway is in need. In Sunndal, many of them are looking for exactly these lines, and a large proportion are adults. The implementation rate in Sunndal for those with a foreign cultural background was 78 p.m. in 2015, while the overall rate of implementation in advanced education in Møre and Romsdal was 73 p.m. Adult training in Sunndal qualifies asylum seekers and refugees well for secondary education. Unfortunately, it is a practice in the county that is unfortunate for adult applicants. When establishing the line offers, the number of applicants for youth rights is the basis. For the autumn's admission, young people's rights were too few in search of construction and health in Sunndal. On the other hand, many people with adult rights were looking, so there were more than enough students in total to start these lines. But it does not take the county into account. The county therefore decided to leave construction and health in Sunndal. This is not unique for Sunndal, but concerns several district schools around the country. The consequence is that the refugees we want to take training to get to work are not getting done this because the big community is not doing well enough. This is a paradox, and it has to be settled in. The county must be required to include them with adult rights on the basis of the establishment of the line offers, and the county must have the economy to cover the costs. The municipality of Sunndal has been running reception for many years, and I could mention many good examples of the benefits of the municipalities operating the receptions themselves, but I could draw on that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1182	We know that the costs of failure integration are significant. A cost report made by Fafo and Societal Economic Analysis on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge shows that the price of failure to provide refugee children with adequate basic education in Norwegian school is four times as high as the price of giving it. I would therefore like those who are calling for high costs to be equally eager to implement effective integration measures, because costs are only higher if we fail to integrate. As my good colleague and friend Abid Q. Raja said recently in an article, there are many good examples. There is no doubt that our society is measured by how well we can integrate, not by how strong and strict immigration rhetoric we have. Therefore, the key to this is not to chat down. The left is in favour of examining the possibility of withdrawing financial support for religious communities. We believe, however, that this should be seen in the context of the announced announcement of a comprehensive policy of faith and life, which comes up on the initiative of the Left. The notified message follows up the setting from the Steelset selection, which the red-green ones put in a drawer. However, we do not have a follow-up to the request decision on the examination of the possibility of an official Norwegian education for imams. It is important that religious leaders working in the Norwegian community have both the opportunity to be, and to a large extent are, educated in Norway and are familiar with Norwegian references and Norwegian values. Finally, I would like to say, as I forgot in my first post: we are not promoting the solution of proposal No. 49. On the other hand, we support the proposal of the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) No. 50. We do not support the proposals for Decision IX either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1193	Norwegian society depends on everyone contributing, and everyone is given the opportunity to do so. The government is pursuing a strict and fair immigration policy. We must keep immigration under control and ensure that those who are allowed to stay come to work, learn Norwegian and understand the Norwegian values. That's good integration. The migration situation in Europe provides a very challenging back ground for this issue. The large influx into Norway last autumn also shows how demanding this is. Integration policy is not a final measure. It is not a final phase, but a policy that must constantly adapt to an ever-changing situation. That's exactly what the government is doing, because with this message, the government is paving the way for integration policy and solutions to deal with the migration situation we're facing. We stress that time in reception should be used effectively, that residence in the municipalities should take place as soon as possible after a stay decision, that qualification in the labour market should be targeted, and that the competences and training of immigrants should be used. The government looks closely at the financing of Norwegian religious communities provided by states that do not themselves practice religious freedom. The question is whether such funding should be allowed when, in the country of origin, religious freedom and thus fundamental human rights are actively suppressed. This is both important and difficult — important because unfortunately we see cases of radicalisation and the emergence of shadow societies under the cover of religious activities. In the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism, religious faith societies are very important, and it is an important part of the government's preventive work that has been initiated. This work must be done in cooperation with religious communities. At the same time, we must not close our eyes because some religious communities can have opposite motives and intentions. In this context, it is important that the government looks at all opportunities to contribute to the fight against radicalisation and the emergence of violent extremism. That is why the proposal is no. 50, from the Christian People's Party, a good suggestion. It balances the difficult aspects of this issue, relating to fundamental human rights, and it does so in a good way. It gives a clear indication of the responsibilities of religious communities to contribute to integration in a good way, and that Norwegian criminal law sets a clear and unavoidable limit to funding as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1206	No, that proposal does not capture any of the most problematic, namely the suppression of children and women, who are also contrary to human rights. I would like to thank the representative Abid Raja for his contributions, and I would like to add that I would also like to thank all those immigrants who are very common workers in this country. They're making a huge effort to make this society go around. Some of them become ones, others become ordinary workers – that's good. But I will also shed light on the next matter we are going to deal with today, namely women on the run. It assumes that someone is exposed to completely inhuman things also on the run and on the way here. This means that you can be so damaged that it is impossible to get to work. Many women who are not at work today are exposed to what my generation was exposed to, namely, that we were socially condemned when we wanted to be at work. I became it by many in the community. It was wrong to be at work as a woman, one wasn't a decent woman, and one wasn't at least a good mother if one wanted to be at work and send their kids to kindergarten. We have to remember that these traditions are heavy, that it takes time, and that some of these women have been subjected to very serious things – whether in the country they have lived in, during flight, or even during the stay at reception in Norway – which makes it difficult to get to work. They are simply sick, seriously injured, and that means that part of the job we have to do also when we accept refugees, whether they are women, other war damage or people with disabilities – which we should definitely accept, which needs to get away from them – is that they have to know that they are equivalent, even if they cannot work, because they are. I see in the VG that the Council of State is concerned about coercion. Yeah, so am I. That's why we're proposing today that we have more minority advisors, so I encourage the Council of State to tell its coalition that they should vote for it. Another thing is that when we dealt with the restrictions on Friday, SV suggested that the children who are relocated abroad do not also lose their residence permit in Norway because they are so long abroad that they are not allowed to come back again – precisely because they are subjected to this type of social control. But that was what the government parties voted down. The Council of State did not mention it in a word in its statement, either then or now. But publicly she's worried about this. There is a proposal, completed, which can at least ensure the children who are left abroad against their will, against being cut off from coming back to Norway because they are kept away for as long as they lose the residence permit. That's what the Council of State has to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1217	I have to say that the post that the representative Jan Bøhler made, I support 110 pst. And I can only assure Andersen, the representative, that my commitment to girls who are subjected to forced marriage, sexual mutilation and social control is very great. Ever since I started being a politician, it's one of the things that's dealt with me the most. It's because I think it's the most important equality fight our society is facing today. The fact that there are girls among us who are being forced, that parents are going to decide who to marry, is difficult to take over in 2016. For this reason, the government promoted inter alia: the proposal that we should introduce a 24-year age limit to bring a spouse to Norway, that there should be a requirement to support him and that he or she should have a certain relationship with the labour market or be in training. I record that SV and the representative Andersen voted in favour of these proposals, which were very important to be introduced. I had in my office on Monday a girl who had been rescued from forced marriage no. 2, which told about the social control and the situation in which she had been. I think we're facing different challenges. In Oslo, in the central part, I think that social control in schools, etc. can be stronger because there are more from the same environment. But there is a good return to the auxiliary device. In the districts, where this girl came from, social control was largely from the family, because otherwise the environment was small, but the auxiliaries were not good enough. It's important that we work on these things. More minority advisors don't think I want to solve this. It's about the fact that the step for these girls, maybe you have to report your own family, you have to leave your own family and start a life on your own, is formidable. That's why I think the most important thing we can do is stand up for these girls and have an auxiliaries that are as good as possible. Then to the representative Raja. I don't talk people down. I think it's important to show everyone who has succeeded, and I also think it's important, as Andersen's representative says, to show the usual everyday people, who are at our place of work, whether they're lawyers, jobs like laundry workers, or doing other absolutely vital tasks to make this society go around. But at the same time, I'm going to continue to point out real challenges, because it's important to have an open debate. And when it comes to rhetoric, this is also important to send out signals to human traffickers and others who control this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1229	I have a question for the representative Keshvari – if he has an idea of why Vinje municipality celebrated the 25th anniversary of the day the first Somali came to the village. He might be able to think about it a little bit this summer, which Raja encouraged others to spend the summer. So I'm from Drammen, immigrant town no. 2 in Norway, where more than a quarter of the population have a migrant background. I wonder: Why is it just the Progress Party that thinks it is a problem? If you just see problems, you don't get to do anything. With Keshvari’s starting point, the Drammen would not have had an international cultural centre, not a university degree in human rights and peaceful conflict management, including violence in close relations, had not had a Norwegian centre for multicultural value creation, not ant what The Economist meant by the term ‘The Magic of Diasporas’ and its importance in global international competition. We had not had the ‘Build bridges, not walls’ project in schools and kindergartens, we had not had the International Drama, where business itself works to get 500 companies to hire two immigrants each, we had not had the NHO Global Future, we had probably not sent a 50-year-old Pakistani woman to her first job ever, and we had not had a course in Norwegian values in child education. We had not had sports teams with NCI integration funds; we had not been the first municipality 15 years ago, the Council of State, had an established offer to young people who were exposed to threats of coercion, with new ID, housing, a network, a new life and a new start. These are not anecdotes; they are concrete examples of everyday integration. And we have challenges -- just so bad that the government took from us half of the area effort to the Mountain 2020 program. The Progress Party is also playing on contradictions in integration policy, and I think that is a very bad thing. I get very sad when the Progress Party applauds phenomena such as the neighboring protest storm against the reception of minor solstice applicants in Modum. But I am very happy when an angry leader goes out actively, informs and invites. Now there's 60 fathers in the neighborhood who take these kids with them on what's going on around the village. It's about how to take it. Selecting a negative starting point, a standing position becomes a rest, or possibly going backwards. If you choose to look at the resources of the people you have in your vicinity, a community, the community, the community, the municipality and Norway will be passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1242	Several have been up on the platform today and told of local integration measures that work very well. I think that is good in such a debate, because – as I also said in my main post – we are actually quite good. We've done a lot, and we're getting a lot of things. But we're not in goal – we have to get more. Several have also been up here – especially right-wing representatives – and are concerned about those with whom one has not got it, and are concerned about the externalities in which they stand. Governments have also shown concern about the challenges we face. The Council of State is concerned about making demands – we are concerned about everyone in this room, I think – but also that one has to see that there are several people who are passive because they are dependent on getting cash benefits, and that it is not good. I'm glad the Council of State sees that. Then the representative Keshvari is up and telling us about a scary situation – and that's kind of just what he's talking about. I think it's so amazing that the representative Abid Raja goes up and nuances the picture of what the situation out there actually looks like, and I think the point from Karin Andersen is completely in place, that Norway had stopped without our new countrymen and women. There was a big report last week in a newspaper – which I have forgotten the name of now – that said something about health Norway had stopped if we had not had those hands. Then I ask myself, "Why won't the government, and the Progress Party in particular, do more to make more people succeed?" Why don't they do more when it comes to municipal economy? Why are they cutting into language training? Why do they think cash support is wise? I also think it is amazing that the Right – when more people have been up here today and made visible a situation that is unsustainable in several areas – accepts that this is happening, and does not take responsibility for a better integration policy than the one we have. Yes, we have challenges, but it does not help anyone to have such an uproar of everything that is wrong, as the representative Keshvari has, without saying anything about or having a single opinion about how to deal with this. Then I wonder – I don't know if it's going to be like this: Is it the way Keshvari's representative says to fit into some ideology or political message that people out there should hear? I'm just asking about it. So I want to give a little voice to something. As regards proposal No: 48, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Workers' Party supports it. The left has now drawn proposal No. 49. Then we are left with proposal No. 50, from the Christian People's Party. The Labour Party wants primarily to support the proposal in the vote, but we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1257	Our ambition is that Norway will be the world champion in integration. But it requires that we pursue an active policy, both for integration and for balancing differences, and a policy for working for all. I agree that we should be honest about the challenges, but we cannot just talk about the problems in this room without telling about all of them that we are actually successful – all of the opportunities and the great diversity we have in our small country, thanks to immigration to Norway. I want to warn against a one-sided rhetoric that creates divisions, creates prejudices, instead of gathering us together, because challenges can be turned to opportunities if we only pursue a good integration policy. Then we don't solve problems just by describing them. I feel that someone is very good at this hall. We all agree that more people need to learn more Norwegian, but it does little to say so, when the government parties propose to halve the number of Norwegian hours in reception. We all agree that competence monitoring is important. Then it is a pity that the good proposal of the integration agreement ended with an app. With our budget, NOKUT would have the capacity to do the important job. We agree, of course, that more immigrant women have to participate in the labour market. Then there is a paradox that those who talk a lot about it have doubts about a cash support that keeps immigrant women out of work. The Labour Party is serious when we say: Do your duty, demand your right. We expect people to get to work, and we have equal ambitions for both men and women. So I noticed that the representative Keshvari had a bit of a half-hearted defense for the cash support – I think we can say – and thought it was a little problem. Then the representative pointed out in a violently flaming speech that housing support for families with children was a big problem. One must hear a lot before the ears fall off, for this government has boasted of having increased the living support of the families of children. We agree with that increase, that is a good increase. The problem is that the government has sent the bill for this to the country's destitute, elderly and retired people, who get less housing support. We do not agree with that. It's quite remarkable that you're standing here raiding over a system that one's own party in government boasts of having strengthened. Our welfare model has contributed to small differences and great opportunities. I'm concerned that the government is weakening the Norwegian model, for immigration combined with kindergarten for all children, early school work, bets on skilled workers, a strong trade union movement, more well-being and active industrial policy can become a new and very good chapter on Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1277	Very much is good in Norwegian integration policy. We adopted new good things today, but I still want to focus most on that we have a piece left before it's good enough for the decades to come. Both when it comes to the substance of the policy and when it comes to the substance of the policy, we have a part left. When it comes to restraints: if we are to achieve a great and successful integration in Norway over the course of a decade, the hold must be a brilliant will that we can make this work, and we must have faith in it, and that we actually value what is missing the country is about to host. The strategy whereby a step is closing the world out will not work, cannot work. We have to believe in the diverse society we're about to host. It will also require more content of policies in many important areas. It will require integration from day one, implemented, and there we haven't come far enough. Educational provision must be even better. We don't have children's quarters for asylum seekers right away. It's too late to get into work, and one doesn't have the ability to get started and work right away. This spring, Sylo Taraku has been a central media actor. He came to Norway from Kosovo a couple of decades ago, got a job almost immediately while he was in reception, got to move to another place where he got a job. It's a paradox that the story of such an initiativeful person would have been different today, because it's not allowed today to do what he did. I'm a big fan – I'm a Westerner – of delivering before one can enjoy. But then you have to be allowed to deliver – not just that, it has to be promoted in politics. Then the values are also central, and as we become more numerous, the community of values must be the stronger. Those of us who are members of a trust society and have grown up with it know how much good it can be there, but also about the social control and oppression that can happen and happen. There's more to it than laws. It's about tails, too. If a perjury tells girls that they are less worldly than boys, or that there should be a death penalty for gays or riots, is that okay? Is it irrelevant whether they should receive State aid? No, it's meaningless, in my view, to think that it's irrelevant. It's over-mature because we're going to get out and move on with it. Not wanting to get hold of it and figuring out its consequences is the very opposite of liberalism, because the liberal basis of values is about protecting the freedoms and rights of the individual, not the faith society and the religious leaders. In fact, it is in opposition to the religious leaders that the liberal basis of values has grown up. Hence: Tolerance is an important value. I'm very busy with it, but the limits of tolerance have to stop intolerance. The Stortinget must now be on it and get us on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1294	The representative Keshvari asked for facts in the integration debate. In the same statement, he stated that there are welfare schemes that keep migrant women away from work, that there is a safe welfare country that makes them less represented on the labour market than one would wish. They're simply not motivated enough. We have heard this from the Progress Party in this debate and in several other debates. They're drawing a picture that those who come here don't want to work and don't want to learn Norwegian. Then my question is, where is the coating for those claims? It is problematic that many in this group are out of work, but is it really their own fault, and is it really on the basis of the need to develop an integration policy, a labour market policy and a policy to create a whole Norway? I'm asking for the factual basis of Keshvari's claims. Nothing is closer to fact than reality. Yesterday I was in reality. Yesterday, I was at the Furuset. Yesterday I met 15 immigrant women from many different countries, all non-Western immigrant women. They were different, but they had three things they were completely in agreement about, and they had in common. They said, "We just want to learn Norwegian." We want to work. We want to participate. What is it that makes Keshvari not think that these ladies are representative of the group we're talking about that we want to integrate? Does the representative, Keshvari, believe that it is their own fault that they receive a refusal after a refusal to accept a job application? Is the representative saying that these ladies would get more in favour of their job application if we had a poorer welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1305	The government is apparently concerned about the future of the welfare society. It's crocodile tears. I would like to remind you that it has not been so long since the leader of the Progress Party, now Finance Minister, said that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people. There is once again reason to recall that this model has ensured a society with equal opportunities for all, because it ensures a social security network, a tax-funded well-being and tripartite cooperation and organised work that has ensured both high productivity and very high professional participation. It's this model we have to build on when we're going to bring the last arrivals into the country into professional life and social participation, and we do that, I'm sure we'll succeed in integrating into it further. I think that today we can cost ourselves some optimism and faith in the future. There are no countries other than Norway that have better prospects for success. The Council of State has almost blamed the Workers' Party for affording us everything. No, it doesn't have the Workers' Party, but we want a heavier and more long-term commitment to integration than just spending five million. kr here and 5 million. kr there, as the government has done in the integration message. We can't afford everything in the Labour Party, either, but we do other priorities than what the government parties do. We say no thanks to 20 billion. NOK in the tax cut, and we say no to a cash support without a requirement for activity because there is a manifest breach of the work line. Instead, we will invest heavily in qualification, not just by immigrants, but by the population as such, and in this particular context, it is of course about strengthening language teaching, using wage subsidies to a greater extent, etc. We believe it is very important to strengthen the ability of municipalities to live and integrate those who are coming, so that we do not set up groups against each other. We believe it is very important to build more kindergartens also for children in receptions. We want to continue and strengthen regional efforts, and we think it is very important to give the volunteer good working conditions, not to take over Norwegian education and other tasks that are currently state-owned, but to give added value to this important work, and last but not least, we want a large-scale investment in housing, because the people of Norway are increasing, and then there must be no lack of roofing at all as an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1316	The first thing I say hi to the Stortinget is the laundry lady with a minority background. And Karin Andersen is quite right, as two previous rapporteurs in Oslo said: Norway and Oslo are being held up by immigrants. There are countless unknown minorities who make a vigorous effort, in addition to the familiar people I mentioned in my previous post, in both the private sector, the public sector and the service industry, and the Progress Party must see and praise, is just that, and it is free to give praise, it costs only a little bit of honor. We don't have to exaggerate how bad things are going, because you know what -- it's really going really well, especially if you take into account that the immigrants have been in the country for a very, very short time and come from a very different reality, and that immigrant children often have parents who are both illiterate, have mental challenges and have major financial problems. So the starting point is that these kids, like Keshvari, myself and others, are really doomed to failure, it's really going to be bad, because all the odds are on the one side and they say, "It's not going well." And then it goes well anyway with very, very many, and our role as politicians is to give Ali, Fatima, Pjotr and others as good opportunities as Ola and Kari get. That's our problem. It is not our job to rake down on the immigrant children and the children who grow up in Norway. It's not just free to give praise. It's also free to show care, and caring is also free, and it actually makes you feel better. Not least, if you want to get through your policy, the group you're talking to will actually listen to you more easily and to your political solutions. State Council Listhaug said she's a quite specific lady, and I'm going to say that I'm well such a certain man myself, and there's not a few times I've addressed these challenges in the minority community, but it's perhaps especially rhetorical and humanism that's different from us. It's about passive parents giving passive children, and here we have a large canvas in front of us that we have to work with. We often talk about integration into four categories: language, education, lawfulness and work – then we are on target. But it's just the entrance ticket. It's necessary to have all of these things, but you're not in the goal. There is still a large canvas of values, and it's about equality, about the view of gays, freedom of expression, the view of democracy. The children learn from their parents, and very many parents come from a completely different reality, and expecting that after the physical journey that takes six to seven hours from another reality, at the same time will mentally move to the Norwegian reality, I think I'm putting a little too much responsibility on their shoulders, and then we have to have both education systems and things that make you actually get there that you can be a full citizen of Norway. I'm going back to my first post, to the piece of care, and my request again to the Council of State is: Use the summer vacation to think about how you can be a co-player and not appear to be an enemy into the immigrant environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1331	I am pleased that the debate has highlighted the point I had in my speech, namely that anyone who has facts, empirical knowledge and empirical knowledge that this is not just a picture of shine should be allowed to run. To the representatives Håheim and Christensen from the Workers' Party: Where do I have the facts from? Among other things, I do. from a sample The Labour Party put down itself, called the Brochmann Committee, which is very clear that those with two or more children often get so much in transfers – because there is no thank you for welfare schemes – that they are prevented from coming to work and that it does not pay to get into work. That's a fact-finding basis if you're interested in it. But we also see today a large number of people who are most concerned about repeating naturalities that do not have coverage in the statistics. We see, for example: participation in employment. That is not something the Progress Party has invented. The main point of the representative Lise Christoffersen was that a number of measures and courses have been initiated as a direct result of immigration, such as: training in child rearing, which is so enriching, and which had not existed without immigration. Thus, immigration has led to the need for action. The representative of Christoffersen sees it as a loss to society that the measures taken to correct the unfortunate aspects of immigration had not existed without the great immigration. In conclusion, I have to say the following to the representative Eirin Sund: My contribution is ideologically based, but it is also based on the fact that the Progress Party did not exist – if you listen to the debate today – none of the disadvantages of immigration or the challenges of integration would have arisen. I have been challenged by this: what do the representatives of Keshvari and the Progress Party think about integration? Do they have any measures at all? Then I wonder if the representatives who have asked those questions know where they are and what debate they are in. We are debating a communication on integration submitted by the government, by the Progress Party State Council Sylvi Listhaug. What we think must be done with integration is the main reason why we are in the Chamber today and are debating. The fact that you haven't even brought it with you indicates that it's going to be very difficult to get things into this area. Everything we mean, we have presented in this message. That's why we're here today. Most people should have brought it, so I was quite embarrassed on behalf of the Workers' Party when they began to ask what measures the Progress Party had for integration. That is the message we are discussing here today in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1348	There is a tradition that when one starts to approach the end of a debate, one should try to summarise it on behalf of the debaters. I'm not going to try to do that, but I just want to reflect a little bit on the debate we have here today, across all the parties. The integration debate really shows the breadth of opinions. We have to believe each other that when someone wants a lot, they're not naive. And those who want to be a little strict on some things are not against integration. Setting requirements is not opposed to integration. Those who do not have all the answers are not unresponsive. I think that's the sum of the voices that come out in these debates, which will create legitimacy for the future work of the Great Britain, and I'm actually going to praise all the parties that have been up here today and present their views. I would also say that the integration message that is now on the table is the greatest piece of work that has been done so thoroughly in this field in very many years. This is not the classic trap of discussing integration just along the cultural axis, but also along the structural axis. What does that mean? Well, you look at what it means structurally to work with integration. What does it mean for a municipality to settle people? It's not just about homes. It is about the number of school places, the skills of teachers, working life, sport, volunteering, welfare services and housing policies. My point is that integration policy must be integrated into the long-term plans of the municipality. That's where one of the biggest challenges lies today. At the end of the debate, I would also like to challenge the Norwegian municipalities – rapporteurs and statesmen. How are they going to implement this message in their long-term plans in line with everything else they do in the municipality? I think that if we don't get there, we can have many debates on the results of integration or on the results of individual measures. But if we're going to look ahead, if we're going to have a new integration policy in Norway, we're going to have to assume that everyone is going to live in a municipality. If the municipality's plans for all areas of work do not reflect this properly, integration – I don't want to say it's like this in all municipalities, but in many – will still be a piece of work that happens a little bit alongside the usual work. Then there will be a lot of festivals and celebrations, but it won't be real integration structured in the same way as anything else you do in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1365	As I have understood the attempt at integration reception, it would be an offer to the most resource-intensive, those with the best basic education and those who were the most motivated. The government's response in the reply cord exchange made me a little uncertain as to whether I had misunderstood. If it's the case that these integration recipients are to be for everyone, it's a good thing that it's going to be non-discrimination, but it raises some other questions. As the Council of State itself said, illiterates will need many, many years from the start of literacy training until they may have the hope of entering the labour market. Are they then to spend four, six, eight years in an integration reception? The central party maintains that integration is not in a reception, but in a community in the municipality where the refugee is resident. The Government proposes to remove the requirement to conduct an asylum interview in order to obtain a temporary work permit. I am surprised that the government is promoting a proposal for something they have previously strongly warned against. I believe that this will have a limited effect, while at the same time worrying about whether you can be sure that the identity is clarified. The Central Party has therefore made a proposal asking for an examination of the consequences of removing the requirement of an asylum interview before a temporary work permit can be granted, before any such change enters into force. Finally, an explanation of how we are going to vote: we will support the proposals No. 11, paragraph 13, paragraph No 24, 47 and No 47 48. Firstly, we support the majority proposal, but we will also notify subsidiary support for proposal No. 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1375	I would like to ask the Progress Party to clarify here from the Chair – and with good reason – how they will vote on proposal No. 50 from the Christian People's Party. There are several reasons why I want to know, and the first one is that it will determine how many people fall. If the Progress Party supports what is currently in place as a unanimous setting, it will have multiples. If the Progress Party withdraws from it and supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the unanimous committee proposal falls. The second reason, of course, is that this is very important. There's a significant difference between what's in a decision from the Storting and what's in a note. Of course, everyone in this Chamber knows that with parliamentary experience. Besides, it's a little unusual if it should be so that something unanimous comes from a committee, gets a little attention and then pulls in. After a bit of flat wind in the media, fall down and can't stand it. It would surprise me especially if it is such that the Progress Party would be there. For that one has to give the party: one can discuss the motives, the foundation and the way they have done it, but the Progress Party has often criticized in the public debate practices in Muslim trust societies and among Muslims for which there is reason to be critical, for example. the subject of social control. The difference between the two proposals is that from the Christian People's Party there will only be a limit to the law, while the unanimous majority proposal from the Committee says that other things that are justifiable can also be criticised. For example, if extreme social control and repression are exercised that cannot be said directly as a crime, is there not any reason to determine whether there can be any impact on state aid? I'm overconfident that the Progress Party is actually -- they've at least expressed it publicly a number of times -- it's incredibly critical of that kind of practice. But what one has to ask is: if the Progress Party is now jumping off, is it because this is a proposal that can apply to all faith societies – including some extreme Christian trust societies, where there is social control and extreme practices – that they refuse to support it now? I assume that we still have the Advance Party's support for this proposal, so we have a multiple. I hope it's not such that they're content to talk loudly in the media, but they're not going to vote for this today, when it's going to apply to all faith societies, regardless of the background.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1390	There has been a long and interesting debate. This situation and balancing is demanding for all batches. It's both a big message and the SV's proposal to ensure integration, that's very good. What it's been too little focus on is that when we talk about housing, we're actually talking about investment. That's what it's all about, investing to make it sustainable in the future. This with indications of pull effect also hovers in the air, but we should not forget that we have a duty to look at the push effect, i.e. the situation they came from. Because we agree that this does not apply to those who want a better life, we cannot help them in Norway, but it concerns the few who want to save their lives for themselves and their families. That's the group we're talking about, and then we're going to have a worthy rhetoric, we're going to have a worthy policy and we're going to pursue justice. There is a stoppage of immigration in Norway, but there are international agreements, international law, human rights, etc., which means that we have someone who is entitled to stay, and then we must not get A and B citizens in this country. As far as SV's proposals are concerned, we were involved in and discussed it in the Committee. Personally and otherwise in our party, we didn't quite know it again when we met it in the media, and that has caused the scepticism we've had from organizations and life-vision organizations that have asked us a lot of questions. After hearing SV's comments here today, I have not been reassured about the examples that have been used. When one then also plays out the Muslim card against the Advance Party to link them to the matter, I also think it was a little strange. The Christian People's Party believes that some of the examples that have come here – I support some of them – are to follow up. But we have confidence in that will happen in the communication that comes about a holistic belief and life-view policy. We're actually assuming that it's going to be there. Keshvar says he sticks to the facts, that it's empirical, and he says that no other parties have mentioned disadvantages. It's just the disadvantages we've concentrated on now, both in the narrowing down and otherwise, and I think that's a claim that falls completely on its own unreasonableness. But he had a very good question in a row here: "If the truth frightens, you have to do something with it." But the answer was narrowing. Today we do not discuss tightening, we discuss settlement. I think there is too little focus on language training, etc., because we agree that we should have sustainability, that we should get good taxpayers, and that we do not want people to go on public support schemes. The Labour Party's fight against cash support was predictable. They're talking about the mosquito in the room. Otherwise, there are many good solutions that will emerge here today, and as the rapporteur, I thank you for the contributions that have been made. Now we have to have a positive rhetoric to get this on our legs and not create new signals about a so-called pull effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1409	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1412	Just a brief comment on the immigration and integration policy spokesperson of the Progress Party, the representative Keshvari. He claimed in his last post that I had said that a number of measures such as: Norwegian child rearing course would not exist without immigration. There are some in the Progress Party who have made it their brand to twist and twist what others say. I didn't say that. I don't usually use tautologies when I argue. Maybe it was I who stumbled in Norwegian – I'll check when the minutes come – but my point was that with Keshvarari's negative attitude to life, these positive integration promotions would not exist, no matter how much need there was.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1419	The representative Eirin Sund has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1422	I note that the representative Keshvari does not have very high thoughts about his colleagues, but he does. The representative repeats time and time again that everyone else in the Chair – except those from the Party of Advancement and the Right – repeats of course. What has been repeated several times from all parties except the Progress Party and the Right is that we have repeated our proposals that are beyond what is in the notification. We have read the message, but we also have the ability to absorb the knowledge that we have gained from other environments, both in the hearing and in other recordings that have come. The representative Keshvari should not be afraid that we have not read the message, but we have also been able to take over the views of others. When the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 50 as it is, is it because why do we have to define something out? On a proposal from the Left, an overall increase has said in the past that we wanted to have a review of the funding of religious communities. Now why do we have to define something out? Because when the investigation comes, we have to decide in the form of decisions there and then what to do afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1431	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1434	In short: it was an answer to the challenge in the Progress Party that we do not have any integration measures. The whole reason for this debate is a communication on integration, presented by the government. When it comes to the preparation of voting, I think it must be a big misunderstanding. People talk a lot past each other, because we put ourselves 100 pst. behind the posts that both the representative of Audun Lysbakken and others from SV have held. But we do not see any contradictions with the proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party, all the time it has to be assessed. Relationships that keep women from social participation, yeah, what is it? It has to be defined before one can deduct State aid from some. That has to be put into practice. All that representative Lighthouse took up, I'll say here and now that I'll put it 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. That is why we have also stated in the comment in the case that we will be informed of such circumstances. There is no contradiction between that and the proposal presented by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1441	The article by Keshvari's representative appears to be something special. Everyone can see, not least the people who have the parliamentary experience of the representative Keshvari, that there is a significant difference between the two proposals we have on the table, and that is the one point that is missing from the proposal for a decision of the Christian People's Party, namely that one should also explore the possibility of withdrawing financial support to religious communities such as, paragraph 3, 'other serious issues that could lead to withdrawal of state support'. What the Progress Party is now contributing to is a narrowing of this decision, and that on a proposal from the Christian People's Party. I may not be so surprised that such a proposal comes from the Christian People's Party, although I am concerned that the Christian People's Party has listened to conservative religious environments in this matter, for it is alarming if any of those environments have reason to fear a regulation like this. It's strange that you can't go the small step that after all is to investigate this and look at the possibility of supporting people who are fighting social control. I think it is quite revealing that the Advance Party does not stand up and act in this matter, but goes with the Christian People's Party, and that makes very much of the tough rhetoric become hollow, when you are not willing to act. The representatives of the Progress Party can see the difference between the two proposals, they know what a proposal means, they know what a comment is. I don't think it makes sense to try to explain the difference. You better explain why you agree more with the Christian People's Party than you agree with yourself in the Committee's position. So the representative Tuskedal gives me great influence if that's how things signed have been said in the media, has frightened the Christian People's Party from supporting a proposal they were initially in favour of. It is not even the case that there are interviews with the head of SV who define what the government should do in such a case. But let me also stress that I have an interview with the Christian conservative newspaper The Day, for example. have been very clear about what this is not about, for example. the classic discussions on labour law and equal opportunities and discrimination laws. It's about the more serious conditions. Therefore, I fear that the opposition of the Christian People's Party to this to the seventh and last bottom of a fundamental attitude that we politicians should not interfere with what is going on in religious faith. It is a position I deeply disagree with, and I believe that what has happened this spring, the whole story we have with oppression in different religious environments – because it is not about one particular religion – suggests that the Storting must have the courage to act, and at least have the courage to determine how we should act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1450	I would like to thank you for a very good debate, and I think there is a lot of consensus in this matter, which is very important to take along. I would just like to comment on the representative, Mr Greni: Of course, it is not a matter of sitting four to six years in reception, but what is the point is that we need to speed up the process of integration. One will also cooperate with the municipalities where these receptions are located, and hopefully these people can then be settled in either these municipalities or surrounding municipalities, so that one can start life and the integration process earlier. We started, as I was in the past, up by 500 places, and showing this good result, there's no reason not to develop this model and more places in the time to come. I would also just like to make a comment to the representative Raja, who says that he has a different humanism than the undersigned. I understand that the representative Raja feels better than I do, that he stands for better values than what I do. I would say that I disagree very much. What I stand for is a realistic approach to these questions. It's about taking the individual seriously, it's about taking the whole complexity seriously and being aware that this is not a simple job, it's not a quick fix, but it's hard work ahead of us. I've been in this game for so long that I've been called up a lot over the years and got a lot of labels thrown at me, so you just have to live with that. But what history has also shown is that with regard to the points of view that I have forged over time, it is in that direction that policy has gone, and not the opposite. It's about now seeing what challenges it presents us, and also the pressure against Europe. But I believe collectively that both this case and the decisions that are now being taken, and the decisions that were taken last week in connection with the tightening package, together make us better equipped to meet the future in this field. It's going to test us both in terms of immigration and integration, and here we have new tools to succeed with it. We depend on that if we are to ensure the Norwegian welfare model and ensure that those who come after us also have good welfare arrangements and good welfare services in the years to come. I think everyone stands together to say that you actually want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1459	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1463	So we should not let go of one debate in which the Council of State draws the victim card. A state council in Norway, in the richest country in the world, is a pity. I have to say I am thoroughly tired of listening to that presentation. I would also encourage the Council of State to read the evaluation of the report for minority advisors. That report shows that this is successful, and it shows the potential for improvement, especially when it comes to working with those who are sent out of the country against their will and remain there, and which the government will not help to get back to Norway, because that road is closed. Here's a lot of work for the state council. Governments have a great deal of work capacity and a strong will. I'll recommend her to work a little bit more on integration, good integration, and a little less on feeling sorry for herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1468	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1471	So it's supposed to be a pity on the government because you've got labels thrown at you. If it should be like that, it's just to line up, far behind me, because there's not a few labels we've got, threats and racism. And if it's so heavy to bear for the council, there's no force to hold this position, this work. She speaks of her having a realism in her mind when she comes to the difference of humanism between us – the disconnection of a group, there is no realism in it. I've had many good Christian friends on the Biggest, especially in the Christian People's Party – with good values that I like to know and feel, such as humanity, humanism and love for neighbor. I think the summer's going to be good for the council if she spends that time for some inner reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1476	In conclusion, I just want to have a little comment on what has been raised regarding the difference between the Christian People's Party's proposal and the SV's proposal, which was given a majority in the committee. It is clear that the Christian People's Party is not alarmed by SV or by the arguments that come, but we are alarmed that there is a vague frame-up of paragraph 3 of the proposal, when we hear the lay-out that has been done in the media by representatives of that party. Then we think – a caretaker – let's go forward, let's take a hearing, let's wait for the message that's been announced just this, and we expect it to come there. Then I react when the representative Solhell, as I mentioned, plays out the Muslim card to the Advancement Party, while on the other hand, in the Christian People's Party, we hear that we are more frightened because some conservative Christians have taken us. It's this split and mastery now, and I think that's a little unworthy. Let's try to be realistic and look at this. We agree that much of what has been mentioned from SV is a problem – we have to deal with that, and we expect that in that message, so that we stick to the matter and do not make rhetoric about this. I think we're going to find out after a thorough review, where we preserve religious freedom, freedom of conscience – this is a sensitive area, there's no need to rush in. And for the most part, it's not resistance, as it was said, to enter these conflict-filled areas in the Christian People's Party, but we have to do it with caution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1483	I'm taking the word now because our main speaker, Mazyar Keshvari, has gone out of speaking time, and I'm noticing that the special representative, Lysbakken, took a different view of what Mazyar Keshvari said, than what was real. As a brief explanation of vote from us, we stand firm in the committee position that we are part of, but we are also pleased that the Christian People's Party also sees these challenges, even if they want a slightly different device than the Progress Party. We are committed to what we have in committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1490	Let me just make it clear right away that I'm taking a distance from all those who are trying to label others. I've been out in the past and I've supported many people with immigrant backgrounds who are getting racist remarks after themselves, and I think that's something that everyone should distance themselves from, because it's very good that we have many in Norwegian politics that are at the top, and that have that background. There are good role models for others in our society. I can't say that I recognize myself in the description that I feel sorry for myself. I don't think that characterizes my political career. But I think it's important for me, as for everyone else who is assigned opinions and attitudes and is stamped in different ways, to object to it, because I don't recognize myself in those descriptions. What I want is for us to achieve a good integration policy. That's why I spend a lot of time traveling around the country looking at the work that's done, and I'm trying to inspire that we're going to get an even better job in the future. We need to think anew, and my thoughts around it are in the integration message and are now going to be wide-ranging. But I also think it is important to be aware of the responsibility that politicians have to send out clear signals to those who are traffickers, and others who control these flows, that Norway is a strict country, and that we actually have a policy that makes those who come because of them, for example. wants a better economic future, should not come to Norway, because they burden our asylum system. I'm going to keep doing that in the time that's coming. I believe that this is an important task for me, and therefore I am pleased that we have achieved improvements in both immigration and asylum policy, and not least here where a broad majority is behind a better integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1501	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1504	It must be allowed to say to the Council of State that if she is concerned about avoiding stamping and adding opinions, she may well benefit from looking through her own practice towards political opponents this spring. A little critical self-reflection thinks I would be in its place. But I took the floor in the follow-up to what Mr. Njåstad said, because if it's the case that I misunderstood the comments of the representative Keshvari, I'm very happy about it, because in that case it means that we agree on the proposal in the vote, and that there is a majority in favour of it. I think that's very positive. The representative Tuskedal warned against «pushing in», and we're going to be careful about that, but I want to stress that I think too many of those who live in the situations that we've been discussing today, it seems rather that the time is overdue for action, and that we should be more afraid to do too little than to initiate an investigation, to which of course there is the dilemma attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1513	To this last part of the debate where the Council of State talks about labels: then we shall listen, because she represents a party that has driven it throughout its political time. It started with Carl I. Hagen's labels of single mothers, Finnish marks, samar and other slab bags – to quote him quite accurately. There's nothing to shake on the head of, councillor, because it's a truth. And the biggest label we've seen in the recent debate is the label that the Council of State has very unfortunately put on the situation we've been in. As Minister of Integration, she has a capacity to present the situation as that many of those who come are merely a result of human trafficking and crime, but not to highlight what she should, according to the Norwegian political, humanist tradition, take responsibility for, namely to talk about these people coming because of the need and poverty and death and corruption. This is the most difficult situation we have, because we have an Integration Minister who adds such a tone and who violates the Norwegian humanist tradition, across everything else we have historically agreed on in Norway. And then she calls it realism. Had it not been for the opposition and the breadth of the treatment of what has happened in the last days in connection with both this message and what happened here in the hall two days ago, there would eventually have been reason to ask questions about Norway any longer was a humanistic nation — if the Council of State had got what she really wanted. That is the truth and should be said before this debate is over, for it is, after all, saved by the fact that the Storting has taken together against the government in such a serious situation as this. And it should be a pleasure for the Council of State and the Advancement Party to be rescued by others who are trying to preserve the humanist tradition, because what the Council of State has said on a number of occasions and which is also under this discussion is the following: the integration measures must be so strict to prevent people from coming here. Think about it! That's what she's saying, and I think that's good that we're taking a consistent distance from. I am pleased that the Progress Party is alone in this, but I put a big question mark, with great wonder: Where has it become of the Humanist Right, which allows her to move forward in this way and to preface the political discussion that is completely wrong? That the Prime Minister is living with it, at least I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1538	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1545	First, I would like to thank the Left for an important and good proposal. It is well documented that in wars and conflicts, existing discrimination and abuses against women and girls are increasing. It makes it even more difficult to fulfil women's most fundamental human rights. We see, for example: an increase in violence called survival sex, in trafficking in human beings and in pregnancy-related deaths. The abuses are not only carried out in war or without control; they are also carried out on European soil, in flight. It can even happen on Norwegian soil when some of these women are too unprotected in our asylum recipients, or when they become residents. The Norwegian Women's Sanity Association reported at the Stockholm hearing on how they are now denied access to camps there. Women lack protection against abuse. They must not provide women with vital help such as prevention and other health care. It's very serious, and I expect the government to take initiatives so that the aid organizations can get into these women and give them basic help. I would like to address the minority proposals that are in the vote. In this case, there has also been a broad majority – not unanimously, unfortunately – too many actions. Among other things, we pray: the government on better measures for the follow-up of refugee women who have been subjected to gender-based violence in their home country and during their migration to Norway. The council and the government believe this is good enough, and say that now there are so many, so we can't do this any better. Well, if we're going to succeed in what we're talking about instead, we're actually going to have to help women who have been exposed to this, better than today. They have to get better protection than today. We ask the government to ensure that arrival centres, transit receptions and regular receptions are organised for both sexes, and that a screening is carried out to identify the vulnerable women with special needs. We also ask them to review legislation and practices that ensure the right to asylum through gender-based persecution. Historically, there have been many bad stories about this, and it is absolutely necessary that we are absolutely sure that both legislation and practice follow this. Then we ask the government to give priority to resettlement of refugee women who are at risk of violence, abuse and exploitation. That means that when you're picking up quota refugees, this must be an important premise. What we know is that in the refugee camps there is little food, and that there is hardly any school for the children. But what we know is completely lacking is the safety and security of women who are alone. Many women become alone because men flee, and then they are unprotected. So this is important. We also ask the government to take the initiative of common European guidelines which ensure safety and the necessary assistance for women on the run, including during temporary accommodation. I would also like to thank the Foreign Affairs Committee for the contributions they have made to this vote. It is about different measures, including: support for global humanitarian policies against gender-based violence, and we ask the government to strengthen support for Syrian women’s organisations – both those still in Syria and those outside Syria – and to include them in peace talks and negotiations. It's very important to make a lasting peace. It also calls on the government to give priority to the prevention of gender-based violence by humanitarian action in Syria and its neighbourhoods, that there are requirements to ensure the safety of vulnerable groups, including the prevention of sexual harassment. It is very important that the government ensure that the women’s perspective is integrated and prioritised as an important part of the assistance and that women’s rights are respected. It is also important that the government now follows up and strengthens the work on rights information for those granted a residence permit, and this should be done under the authority of women’s organisations and civil society. So here are several tasks that the government should follow up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1575	The representative, Karin Andersen, has addressed the proposals she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1578	I would also like to thank the Left for promoting an incredibly important proposal. And I want to thank the representative Karin Andersen for very good work on the matter in the committee. I think the representative Karin Andersen had such a good report on the content of the matter that I have not intended to make my own contribution on behalf of the Workers' Party. The working party is in agreement with SV in absolute terms, with the exception of proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox I also think that the representative Karin Andersen gave a good account of what is our view since the matter was in the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee. But there is one thing that I must be allowed to say from this pulpit. In the event of an incubation, or possibly because everything is going very quickly, it is that we should agree to a note where one believes that Norway must be a driving force in the fight against child marriages, and that Norwegian assistance in the neighbourhoods must be targeted and contribute to improving the condition of vulnerable groups. We were to take part in that comment during the committee's proceedings. We could have made a proposal today before noon. 08.30. It wasn't done, so we don't come along. But now it is at least said from this pulpit that this of course also means the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1587	The representative proposal from the Left on women in exile raises an important issue, and it actually deserves a little time from the pulpit, for women and girls in exile are a very vulnerable group. The proposals that are being made here, which are referred to in the proposal, are issues that the government is already working on, and a lot of work is under way. So that's what part of the proposals that are here are going to be. Girls are more vulnerable than men to both sexualized violence, child marriage, trafficking in human beings and economic vulnerability. They have less access to education and, in addition, have a high risk of harm and death related to pregnancy. It is important to focus on the situation of women. Very many are fleeing, especially because of the war in Syria. In my work in the Council of Europe last summer, I visited Italy's largest reception, at Sicilia. There it was. 1,900 men and 100 women. What made me happy was that you had just worked to protect women. They had separate housing units, they ate for themselves, they had their own health care, and it was special follow-up of pregnant women. So something positive happens. Norway is contributing internationally to the promotion of measures related to women in refugees, and we are participating in international forums to combat violence in close relations. This work is being done both in the UN and in the Council of Europe, but unfortunately not in the EU, where we are not, but the EU is also making a great deal of effort in this area. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat gender mutilation internationally and has launched its own strategy against gender mutilation for the period 2014-2017, which strengthens the link to efforts to combat gender mutilation in Norway. Norway’s international commitment to girls’ education is also of great importance in combating child and forced marriage. Norway is part of the International Alliance Call to Action, currently led by Sweden, which is committed to increasing efforts to combat gender-based and sexualised violence in conflict and crisis. We also support the revision of several guidelines that the UN is working with in organisations working in the humanitarian field. The Syrian women’s network is also supported by Norway, and we have committed ourselves to providing funds to offices in Geneva that are involved in the training of the Women’s Advisory Board and civil society involved in peace talks. In this respect, Norway is doing a good job. But I think you can never really talk enough about this. It is still a theme in Europe and, not least, it is working with the Women's Alliance against violent extremism, which was established with Norwegian support last year. Norway has a two-year agreement with the alliance, which has several Syrian members and membership organisations, and there is a strong focus on Syria. All organisations receiving Norwegian humanitarian aid are required to report on how women under Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security are being followed up by planning and implementing the efforts. The International Red Cross Committee launches an appeal annually to combat sexualised violence. In this way, there are several organisations that are systematically working to prevent abuses against women and children. It is also important to stress that the need for better implementation of rights related to sexual and reproductive health is addressed. For the right, it is important to stress that several of the proposals, as I mentioned earlier in my article, have been followed up. Some of the proposals also require greater appropriations. It should be noted that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence points out in its opinion that proposals for decisions with future budgetary implications are being presented in areas under their responsibility. Thank you again to the Left, who has promoted this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1625	This is a very important matter that concerns how we can take care of fellow people who are on the run, and on the weakest of them. We in the Progress Party believe that it is necessary to look at some structural changes in order to improve the assistance and protection of women and children in refugees. If we look at the numbers and realities in this field, it turns out that in 2015 was 77 pst. by asylum seekers to Norway men. This is a rule that we also see in other countries, namely that women remain in the neighbourhoods, while men seek asylum in Europe. Thus, the Asylum Institute helps mainly men, while emergency aid in the neighbourhoods primarily helps women and children in need. The most targeted measures to assist women in refugees must therefore be excluded from the asylum system. Both neighbourhood assistance and the UN quota refugee scheme are much better aid schemes for women and children than the asylum institution. Today’s asylum institute requires asylum seekers to put their feet on Norwegian or European soils to seek asylum. This means that asylum seekers must undertake a long and dangerous journey in order to seek protection through the asylum system. According to the UN, women and children are very vulnerable during these journeys. Unfortunately, abuse and violence are relatively widespread, especially against women travelling alone. This is one of the main reasons why the Progress Party has long said that reform of the asylum system is desirable in order to use the UN quota refugee regime. In this way, those who do not have physical, mental and financial resources to travel half the world to seek protection, seek help and seek protection in nearby camps. Secondly, people can be selected and taken out according to the capacity of the different countries. Women will thus avoid embarking on a life-threatening journey to Europe and huge resources will be released to assist the neighbourhoods and to the UN quota refugee scheme. Unlike the asylum system, quota refugees are representative of women and children. The right-hand Party Government has given priority to picking up entire families as quota refugees and has its own quota for refugees with major medical needs. There are, as we know, 60 million people on the run in the world today. About 98 pst. of refugees with a need for assistance are located in the neighbourhoods and do not seek asylum in Europe or elsewhere. Among those who actually seek asylum, there is a great overrepresentation of young men. Sweden alone spends more resources on 160 000 asylum seekers than the UN spends on 60 million refugees worldwide. The migration agency's estimate for direct asylum costs is 61 billion. Swedish krona for 2016, while UN High Commissioner for Refugees in 2016 has a budget of 56.3 billion. kr. It goes without saying that with such a biased priority as to where you spend the large amount of money versus where the need for help is greater, we can't reach it. That's why we in the Progress Party are happy and proud that we in the government have been involved in granting 10 billion. DKK over a four-year period for Syrian refugees, which is a record contribution. At the same time, the government has also run a donor country conference, where it has collected approx. 12 B.C.E. dollars for the world's refugees. That way, we can help more people who are in need and who need protection. The situation of women in refugees is one of the most important arguments for a complete reform of the asylum institution, and I hope that more and more, both representatives and actors in this field, realise and help us get to it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1646	The representative proposal from the Left addresses a very important topic. The proposers believe that the government must step up efforts for women who are fleeing from war and conflict. The Central Party fully agrees with this, and we support the proposals. Women and girls on the run are a very vulnerable group. Norway should be a leading country in ensuring the safety and protection of women and young girls when we know that they are subjected to abuse, exploitation, sexual abuse and violence during their migration to and through Europe. UNHCR has criticised European countries for having failed to put in place separate facilities such as toilets, baths, dormitories and separate shelters for women in reception areas and in transit camps. It has, among other things, have been reported to Amnesty International on women who are concerned about their own safety and who do not feel safe. Women say that they have been subjected to physical abuse, economic exploitation and sexual abuse by other refugees, smugglers and even security personnel. These stories testify to the urgent need to put in place measures to ensure better protection and security for women and young girls, be it through our international contributions and commitments, or also through the way we take care of them when they get here in Norway. Several hearing bodies have stated that Norwegian reception is insufficient for women who have been subjected to gender-based violence. We are talking here about women who have fled from war and who have experienced great pressures as a result of it. At the top of it comes painful experiences from the flight itself. We know that the living environment affects psychosocial health. The physical environment may contribute to increasing or reducing the risk of developing mental problems. A good living environment helps prevent mental health problems. It can stimulate activity and improve quality of life. It is also important from an integration perspective. The centre party believes that lone women and young girls living in reception must receive adequate protection and follow-up. The Centre Party will therefore support the proposals promoted by the minority of the Committee. It concerns the proposal to increase the number of staff at reception, the proposal to carry out an assessment of all reception centres to identify the need for conversion in order to ensure women's access to safe detention centres, the proposal to ensure long-term training on gender-based violence for staff at reception, and the proposal to facilitate the necessary cooperation between reception centres, local health authorities, women's organisations, crisis centres and other relevant institutions at local and regional level. The centre party notes that there is a need to improve the quality of reception and to strengthen the skills of staff. In this respect, I would like to mention that, in its attitude to the Communication of Integration, the Committee asks the Government to establish independent supervisory arrangements for asylum reception operations. Here I would like to make it clear that the Central Party believes that this type of supervision can well be the responsibility of the State. We do not want further red tape and the creation of our own supervisory bodies. That being said, we support independent supervision. The aim must be to have reception that gives the residents a good offer, so that they can feel safe and safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1661	When conflicts or natural disasters strike, it affects men, boys, women and girls in different ways. For example, surveys among Syrian refugees in Jordan confirm that male refugees are more vulnerable to exploitation in the labour market, while women and girls mention sexualised violence as one of their greatest concerns. In addition, girls and women report risks of trafficking in human beings, child marriages, increased risk of injuries and deaths related to pregnancy, economic vulnerability and poor access to education. Amnesty has interviewed a number of women from Syria and Iraq who have fled to Northern Europe via Turkey, Greece and the Balkans. Women tell about the fear, abuse and sexual abuse of human traffickers, border guards and other refugees on their way through Europe. All the most at risk are the female refugees in transit camps in Hungary, Croatia and Greece, where they have to sleep alongside hundreds of male refugees. Sometimes women leave such camps instead of sleeping under open sky where it feels much safer. The women also say that they feel unsafe at German asylum receptions because they have to share toilets and bathrooms with men. Action for women in refugees must be taken at national and international level. Norway has a special responsibility for women coming to Norway but also has a significant responsibility as an aid operator and as a participant in various international forums. We have an important voice that must be used to speak the case of vulnerable girls and women. Norway should also raise women to speak its own language. This can be done by ensuring women’s participation in peace talks and negotiations in Syria and by strengthening the women’s organisations already established in Syria, which currently operate partially within and outside the Syrian borders. Women’s participation must be requested in all forums, including in the donor countries’ conferences. It is a major challenge to ensure rights related to sexual and reproductive health — especially in today’s situation, how likely one in five women on the run is pregnant and how sexual abuse is increasing. The left shares the majority’s emphasis on the need for better implementation of rights related to sexual and reproductive health. UNFPA estimates that one in five women of childbearing potential is likely to become pregnant in crisis situations. Furthermore, we believe that other vulnerable groups, such as children and people with LHBT backgrounds, must also be part of the focus of the work on sexualised violence. Gender-based persecution can provide a basis for asylum, but the right to asylum is not worth anything if it is not followed up in practice. It is therefore important that we have a review of legislation and practices to ensure the right to asylum through gender-based persecution. It is absolutely essential that those who are exposed be identified and that they be believed. It is also important to give priority to the prevention of gender-based violence through the humanitarian efforts in the Syrian conflict. As a significant aid operator, Norway has a special responsibility here to take its share of responsibility and to go ahead as a good example for others. Here at home we have a special responsibility to ensure that girls and women who come here are accepted and followed up properly. The left is in favour of establishing a mechanism for early identification and monitoring of vulnerable persons in the asylum process. Furthermore, the reception facilities have a significant responsibility to provide facilities for the residents they have at all times. Arrival centres, transit reception centres and ordinary reception facilities shall be arranged for both sexes and the authorities shall be responsible for monitoring through supervision and control. There's a strong commitment for women on the run, and I would particularly like to thank organisations like Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, Focus, Care Norway, Amnesty, Sex and Politics and MiRA, resource centres for women with minority backgrounds, for good in-flight recordings, but also for their commitment to women on the run. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on the proposal. The left supports the intentions of several of the minority proposals, but these are proposals that we have to consider in the context of the budget. However, I am pleased that today we are getting a majority for our ten measures for women on the run, and that the Storting is showing the will to take the challenges seriously. With today's decision, we strengthen the efforts of refugee women and girls at home, along the way in their flight, and not least in the neighbourhoods. There is a need for a comprehensive and comprehensive effort in this area, and I believe that the Stortinget today is asking the government to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1684	Of course, women are respected as individuals and treated with respect in all parts of the world, even in Norway. In many cultures and environments, women are seen as second-class citizens, without rights and without the right to have their own free will. These attitudes are also reflected in the way some women are treated fluently. There is no doubt that women in exile are more exposed to unacceptable acts than men, including the use of drugs. violence and sexual assault. It was a great overweight of men who came to Europe last year, and men are also in majority this year. It's e.g. having girls among the lone minors, but those travelling in return are more vulnerable than the boys. Girls can also be victims in other ways. Girls are sold to older men as spouses to finance the trip for a brother that the family wants to send to Europe. The human smuggling industry doesn't care about people, they just care about money. Therefore, those travelling, and especially women, can be exploited in many ways during their journey to Europe. Therefore, it is also important to work to make it less attractive to travel to Europe, in the hands of traffickers. The government believes that the most important thing Norway can do is to make the most of it where we can help most, namely in the neighbourhoods of war and conflict. Norway is one of the biggest contributors to strengthening bodies and organisations working on the situation of women, and we already support the initiatives and guidelines that the Committee proposes to support. We have increased the efforts of victims of sexualised and gender-based violence by strengthening humanitarian efforts in Syria and the neighbourhoods. All organisations to be supported must take care of women's concerns. We do not have unlimited resources, and they must be used in the best possible way. So we have to see the whole picture when we give priority. Through the EEA funds, the government also contributes to strengthening the work of women and other refugee groups in Europe. Reception in Norway is organised for both sexes. The majority of women seeking asylum in Norway come together with men and children, and it is natural that they live together. Protected housing conditions are necessary for women who come alone or accompanied by children. We are demanding this today. The great influx last year also made us aware of another phenomenon that we must be alert to in the future. Child marriages occur, and there is much evidence that this increases. Some families sell daughters to finance the trip to Europe. Strengthening work is being done to detect cases of this kind, so that children who are subjected to such abuse in Norway get help as quickly as possible. Violence and harassment in asylum recipients are unacceptable. Women who have fled from war and conflict shall experience security when they come to Norway and are offered to live on reception facilities. It is incredibly important that we pay attention to the fact that women can also be subjected to abuse at reception, and that through the work done, we help to prevent and prevent this. I am pleased that the Stortinget joins the government's proposal in 50 hours of Norwegian and culture and social knowledge when you arrive in Norway. This will clearly inform us about the rules and values that we apply to all the time spent in Norway. In addition, the Government has proposed to strengthen violence prevention in reception through the use of 12.4 million dialogue groups. kr in the revised national budget this year. This will clearly inform us that the use of violence against women and children is not accepted and is actually illegal. Norway has a good helper to care for violent women. Crisis centres are a low threshold offer regardless of residence status. It is important that we keep on informing about which auxiliaries are available and ensure that those who are exposed to violence and harassment know that there is a good offer that wants to help them. Divicious well-trained reception staff are one of the most basic things we can have to improve the situation for vulnerable women. They're doing a very important job, and I want to thank you for the effort they're making. In recent years, the UDI has launched a series of training courses to improve knowledge of violence against women and how to provide them with the best possible assistance. It is important that employees know which characters to look for, how to inform, and which auxiliaries are ready to assist. There are clear guidelines and written requirements on how to follow up if there is a suspicion that residents are exposed to violence. I believe Norway is doing a lot to ensure a good deal and support women in flight, but we are not going to rest on our laurels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1719	I am glad that the Council of State says we should not rest on our laurels in this matter. There are few countries that can, because it is so serious and fatal for those affected by it. I need to ask the Council of State, because the government has gone on a line where they say it's best to help the refugees where they are. Many women remain alone, and at the same time you say that you should only bring here refugee families that are gathered. That means that many of these women, who are among the most vulnerable, are left, because families are split and separated in war, that's what happens. You may not know where the rest of the family is. The government's guidelines are not to be picked up, because it's not a whole family. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1726	With regard to take-offs, families needing protection for Norway will be largely picked up. But was the question related to family reunification, was it? No, it was resettlement. Some guidelines have been developed to help Norway, who is to be taken out, and to a large extent priority has been given to this work, for example: families with children. For this reason, the countries from which people are to be picked up this year are now in the process of leaving, to a large extent, Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. That work goes on. And of course, it's possible to look forward to making changes to it, if you're going to pick up other types of people, for example. there is a separate allowance for disabled persons who have increased to 60 persons per year, a significant increase under this government. Of course, these are things you can look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1733	I almost have to follow this up, because it is said here from the representative Keshvari, but also in the government's own guidelines, that resettlement should give priority to families that are united. Now the Council of State says that this can be considered to change. Today, the government is asking for priority to be given to resettlement of refugee women at risk of violence, abuse and exploitation. And that's what most people, unfortunately, who live in refugee camps, do, because there's no security there. Does this mean that the government is going to change these guidelines, that the requirement that families should be together should no longer be valid? That's what Stortinget is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1742	We will follow the majority decisions taken in the Storting and make the necessary assessments. Of course we'll come back to that. Guidelines are made in the autumn, as I remember. Then, of course, you have to take the recordings that the Stortinge come up with, for which there is a majority, taking into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1747	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1752	Almost every day we hear news from those countries where many refugees come to Norway from: Afghanistan, Syria and the land areas there. Then we hear about acts of war that are often bombs that go off in marketplaces, that hurt and kill a lot of people. With some knowledge of how these societies are organized, we know that when ten people die in a bomb in a marketplace, it usually means that there are ten family fathers who go with it. They're the ones that run the taxis, the ones that are on the trading platforms, the ones that do the activity that's going on out there. That means that the disaster is enormous for those families who then experience that one caregiver in a war situation actually loses his life. When we get that news, it has ring-fenced effects for many women in these countries. I have worked a lot with this field and talked to many women who have fled alone. Sense if not everyone can tell so much, you see a lot in the eye of people about what they've really been through. Fleeing as a woman to get to Europe is a rather dangerous journey. It's not so strange that it's the family fathers who flee in the hope of getting the family after, for having the family on the run and fleeing for women alone is an extremely dangerous situation to be in. They're exposed. We've heard stories from this pulpit about what children experience, and it happens sometimes that women experience even worse things than when they're on the run. We have to take that over when we're going to accept those that are actually going to be here. If they are to have a good start in Norway, we must remember what ballast they actually have. For those in need of protection in Norway and to be in Norway, we must also take into account the fact that they have a ballast to live with. Then we have to give them a 'backing' that makes them manage to be well-functioning and contribute to society's sail if they have that ballast with them. That was our thinking when we promoted the proposal: that we must take seriously, both internationally and for those who are going to be in Norway, that there are many here who have bad experiences behind them. Then, in everything we do internationally, we owe it to have a woman's perspective, so that when we support work in refugee camps, the women's focus has worked to ensure that they have the security they need in their time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1765	I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for this contribution as well. It reminds us of important things. Violence and assault are used in war as a weapon against women, because it is known that structures in society are then destroyed, families are destroyed, and it is so brutal that many of those who are exposed to it are also outlawed by their own people because they have been raped and are thus unclean in some way. So brutal is this. It's deliberately used by authorities in some places as well. I ask the Council of State to bear this in mind when she tells of all those who are refugees from African countries, who are not proper refugees. Some of them have been exposed to this. Some of them are girls, some of them are boys. They're going to be exposed to this. This is what, for example: Boko Haram is on the move, in Nigeria and in the areas there. So I would like to address a very serious issue, namely that Norway is using the Dublin Convention to return people who have been exposed to serious human trafficking to other Dublin countries instead of taking care of them. The Yasmin case, which we've taken up in this setting, is an example of that. It has gone all the way to the Supreme Court, and it is quite right that Norway has not been convicted there because we have the Dublin Convention. So Yasmin has been involved in human trafficking and forced prostitution since she was ten years old and became an orphan, she has been a forced prostitute in 15 countries and has been able to escape here in Norway. But because she has a stamp from Hungary in her passport, Norway chooses to say no, we won't take responsibility for you. It upsets me so much that we're capable of it, and then we're talking about that we're against human trafficking and we're going to take care of these women, etc. We know that she will stay in Hungary and ‘that’s it’. There's not one person who's going to lift a finger for her there, perhaps except those who want to recruit her back into forced prostitution, because that's probably the opportunity she has when she's sent there. This is why we are promoting a proposal that the government should change its practice so that Norway uses the return options of the Dublin Agreement to the minimum extent possible in cases of serious trafficking in human beings. I am a little shocked that only the SV is behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1778	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1792	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines, with replies from members of the Government, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes to those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1799	This case concerns changes in the state budget for 2016 under the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation for Labour Regulations in State Tariffs. I should like briefly to make the recommendation from the Committee, which proposes that we make a total of 1.4 billion. in addition to a number of other items included in the State budget. development of competence, training and means of development, done right in the configuration. In addition, the Committee recommends that one approve the agreement concluded with the Academics through the Protocol of 1 May 2016 and that one also base the agreement in the Riksmeklaren’s meeting book of 26 May 2016 with the other three organisations, LO Stat, Union and YS Stat. In addition, the Committee recommends that those who are not organised in any of the four organisations will also have their pay and working conditions in accordance with what the Riksmekler has laid down in the meeting book for them. Then the Committee also states, in paragraph V, that the King may, on behalf of the State, bring disputes in connection with the settlement of tariffs, and in paragraph VI gives a general power to make allocations to the other departments of his territory. So far, the cases are treated in the same way as the other years as this has not demanded any major debate and mention from this pulpit. This time, there is a note from the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party – which I expect them to do for themselves afterwards – that points to the next round of negotiations, as they want to make an order for what will happen from 2018. The main essence, for which they will do well themselves, is that there should be similar agreements between all organisations. The Progress Party and the Right have, in the context of that comment, made a comment that underlines that the agreements from this period, 2016-2018, are essentially similar. There are different levels of pay for local distribution that distinguish the Academics from the three others. These members are confident that the local parties will also ensure good pay distribution and equal pay between women and men in the local data to be provided in retrospect. We also stress that a primarily wanted similar agreements, but that there was agreement that it was possible to conclude different agreements, and that therefore we have no problem that it has been done. It is important to stress that the possibility of different agreements between the four parties is a consequence of the freedom of contract between the social partners, which we believe is important to be there. With those words, a joint committee recommends the setting, and it is wise to record that a multiple in the committee joins the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1816	The chairman of the committee has now presented the committee reading, but I still want – on behalf of the Workers' Party – to refer to the comment that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party hold. It has been especially important to look at this payroll from the outside. As noted in the note, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, after the committee reading, have noted that the negotiation solutions between the State, the State of LO State, the Union, the State of YS and the academics have led for the first time to the conclusion of main tariff agreements with the parties with different content. What has obviously created the greatest distance is the government's desire to introduce a new pay and negotiation system. In the past, the State has concluded four equivalent core tariff agreements with the parent associations, which have also become applicable to the unorganised. In this year's settlement, the government has concluded two different collective bargaining agreements, and we have a government that has changed its employer policy, without prior notice or discussion. We support the negotiated agreements, as the chairman of the committee stated, but we must point out that it is particularly true since 1991, when a thorough assessment and investigation of the pay and bargaining system had been carried out, that we have built a consensus on the principle that was then established and that has been in force until now. The Storting has not received any notice that we now faced a significant change in the pay and negotiation system, nor has Stortinget indicated that a wish for such a conversion is now in the process of being implemented. This change is marked by a lack of investigation and impact assessments of what is now happening, and we believe that such a conversion puts pressure on the Storting to accept both the premises and the process. We believe that this is unacceptable. The consequence is that there are now two different primary tariff agreements, which will obviously complicate the practice of the State. It will also mean a loss of efficiency for the state. It contrasts with the government's goal of simplifying and modernising, and this year's settlement will also lead to more bureaucracy. Substantial wage resources will now be transferred from centrally coordinated wage-fixing to local level. We believe that the Stortinget should have been submitted to an investigation of the consequences of the strike when more of the wage share is moved from the central to the local level. We believe that the government has broken key principles that have so far been the basis of a comprehensive wage and negotiating policy in the state. We also believe that it is very unfortunate that the state introduces a system of pay differentials in the state and more bureaucracy. That's a change we don't support. We cannot today assess the long-term consequences of different agreements, but we see it as a clear violation of the principle of equal pay for equal work – a principle that the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party set high. We believe that this year's wage regulation must be an exception, and that one must come back to a practice where the result will be similar agreements for all employees in the state, regardless of their association. That is why we are promoting a proposal, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1829	The representative Eirin Sund has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1832	Employment in the State sector was given an economic framework in the pact with the front-level disciplines. That is how it should be, and the Central Party will support the agreed settlement framework. However, when there is reason to react to the state settlement of the year, it is because we have ended up with core tariff agreements for the four main associations that no longer have the same content. The agreement with the Academics has a similar percentage on the pay table equal to 0.5 pst. whereas the agreements with LO Stat, UNIO and YS have a similar percentage increase on the pay table of 1.15 pst. The academics have to distribute 2.3 pst. wage increases through local negotiations, while the others will distribute 1.5 pst. through local negotiations. In the case of unorganised workers in the country, the tariff agreement between LO State, UNIO and YS will apply. The consequence of the annual salary settlement in the State sector is that there will be different pay tables for employees in the same activity. It will create both practical and fundamental challenges. The government's wage and negotiating system does not change often and especially with the consequences of this year's agreement. Since 1991, negotiations have been based on the same principles and then, after a thorough investigation through a public inquiry and a presentation to the Stortinget. Prior to the year’s settlement, there has been no similar investigation and debate on the need for conversion. In our comments on the settlement, we have said that this lack of pre-processing must be seen as a pressure on the Storting in order to accept the premises for the settlement and the conversions agreed with the parties. The consequence of the existence of two different core tariff agreements for the State tariff area is that we have a more complex system of pay for State employees, which involves both loss of efficiency for the State and increased contrasts between workers on the basis of trade union relations. This is unfortunate. This year's state settlement conflicts with the government's stated objective of simplifying and modernising the pay and negotiation system. On the contrary, we end up with increased bureaucracy. In a joint remark, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, points out that the government's behaviour in this year's state settlement has broken with a central principle that has until now been the basis of a comprehensive system of pay and negotiation in the state. We think this is unfortunate. I see that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party debat the challenges posed by the differences in the main tariff agreements in the State. Reference is made to the fact that various agreements are a consequence of the freedom of contract between the social partners. Yes, there are several parties on the employee side, but there is one on the employer side – the state. It is the responsibility of this party to take account of principles that have been established for decades, we are calling for. The central party is in agreement with the Workers' Party and SV on a proposal that provides leadership for the government's preparation of the next revision of the main tariff agreement. We believe that the Stortinget should ask the government to conduct the negotiations on the next revision of the main tariff agreement so that the result is that we will again have four similar main tariff agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1855	The State tariff area covers approx. 150 000 workers and important state activities such as child protection, tax offices, universities, directorates and ministries. I am pleased that we have reached agreement on the main settlement of the year through agreements with the parties. Tripartite cooperation is essential to ensure the good Norwegian welfare society, and the government will further develop cooperation. It is necessary that the framework for government tariffs is laid down by the central parties in order to contribute to responsible wage developments ensuring employment in the private and public sectors. In the light of the difficult transitions we are now facing in the Norwegian economy, it is particularly important that this year's settlement is determined in line with the 2.4 pst front page framework. However, once the wage development framework is set, it is a clear desire of state enterprises that they have the freedom to distribute wage resources in cooperation with local trustees. We have many and very different jobs in the state – from the criminal services in Kristiansand to the University of Oslo and the tax office in Hammerfest. These different jobs have different challenges and opportunities. By providing them with a greater room for action for local negotiations, businesses are also given better opportunities to recruit, develop and maintain good staff. We trust that local employers and trustees can find good solutions for a fair and equitable distribution of wages and salaries. They can use different tools to achieve this, including all adjustments, group adjustments and adjustments for individuals. The aim, a larger local space for action for the enterprises, was announced in Stortinget in the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation's proposal for the State Budget for 2015. This is also clearly within the authority of the Government to negotiate pay and working conditions on behalf of the State. There is a long tradition of respecting that wage negotiations are the responsibility of the parties. The state's desire to modernise the wage and tariff system was also announced in the Stortingen on the same issue, and there has been long-standing cooperation with the parties on various modernisation measures. A more flexible and less rigid system will also provide better room for state-owned enterprises to provide competent staff. Fortunately, freedom of organisation and negotiation exists in Norway. This means that employees are free to organise themselves in different associations, which remain free to negotiate agreements on behalf of their members. We have many examples of different agreements for different organisations in the world of work, including in state enterprises. In the municipal sector, some employees have a separate chapter of the agreement which means that the pay framework can only be negotiated locally. In the defence, some employees have the main tariff agreement for the state, but among other things. members of the Association of the LO Joint Undertaking are parties to a separate agreement, the so-called Workshop Agreement. The country has also been open before the main settlement of the year that it is possible to conclude different agreements with the different parties. Therefore, when the members of the employees' organisation agreed to the government's offer of a larger pay spot for local distribution, it was natural for us to enter into an agreement with them on this. This agreement provided for about 2.3 pst. by date of the payroll mass of the local distribution. In the agreement with Unio Stat, YS State and LO State there is about 1.5 pst. by date of the payroll mass of local negotiations. Moreover, the agreements are essentially similar in terms of social and economic conditions. It is also agreed that all parties must continue to work on the modernisation of the pay and contract system. Although there is no simplification to have two pay tables, it is definitely a renewal and a significant improvement that we have now put in place agreements that give individual enterprises more room for action to pursue wage policies tailored to their needs. We have also taken a good step forward in modernising the pay and negotiation system with the parties. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposal submitted by the government, in line with the agreements concluded by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1879	Now some of the parties to the settlement have been quite clear about what they think about changing practices and changing the structure, even if you have got the agreement in place. The size has not indicated that a person wants this conversion, and the government has also not notified the Stortinget that one would make significant conversions. And when practice and structure are changed in a practice and structure that has been established since 1991 in the context of a major investigation that was then carried out, I wonder if the Council of State can answer whether he has come to understand the consequences of this, both in terms of equal pay for equal work and also in terms of what I know the Council of State and the Government are concerned about: simplification and modernisation. Does he not see that this could lead to much more bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1886	There is equal pay in the state today, and of course it is also fixed for the future. We have for a long time announced that we want less central detail management and that we want more room for action for the individual businesses. The state is diverse. There's a big difference between the University of Oslo and the tax office in Hammerfest. That is why we want to give businesses greater scope for action – that is also their wish. We have notified Stortinget. I Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015 the government announced that it would pay particular attention to the further development of the pay and negotiation system in the country, so that more power and greater responsibility are added to the local parties. I Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 the government announced that in the coming years the central employer policy will pay particular attention to the further development of the pay and bargaining system in the country. So the Storting has been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1897	The size is notified, as the Council of State has said, in that way. But the Storting has not been presented with any investigations or assessments of the consequences of changing the system and changing practices, as the Council of State has done today. Then I ask again: do the Councils of State have knowledge or insight, investigations, which give him the answer that this will not have great consequences for equal pay for equal work and for modernisation and simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1905	Now we believe that this is modernisation, it is innovation, and it is also a desire of the state enterprises to have greater scope for action. Nor is it new that there are different sounding agreements. I explained it in my article. In the municipal sector, there are examples of this in the state, for example. from the Defence, where there are two agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1910	The centre party supports the freedom of organisation. We support modernisation, but we also support that equal work should have equal pay. What is the modernisation of this case is that now we have two pay tables, as shown by the government's press release on 30 May on page 3: two pay tables that are different. So, it's different pay for equal work because you're a member of different trade unions. That is at the heart of the matter: a person gets a different salary because he is a member of different trade unions! When did one have it in the state before?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1915	I pointed out that in the defence there are two agreements, where you have someone who is connected to the workshop agreement, and others that are linked to the main tariff agreement. It is also the case that the requirement of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value by women and men in the same activity is, of course, established. The fact that you now have two agreements does not change the principles that we agree on, that there should be equal pay in line with the requirements of the Equality Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1922	As the Council of State said, 150000 employees are involved. This applies to the gross annual salary of LO Stat, UNIO and YS Stat – where it is a contract – versus the gross annual salary of the Academics. There are two different agreements. My question is, when have those groups had different agreements because they are members of different trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1929	I pointed out that in the defence some employees have the main tariff agreement in the state, while others, among others. members of the LO Joint Union have their own agreement, the so-called Workshop Agreement. This government trusts that state-owned enterprises, in cooperation with local trustees, can find good solutions. We trust that they will use this in such a way that you can recruit, develop and maintain good employees. We also need to have a pay and negotiation system that ensures the diversity of state-owned businesses we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1936	In respect of the Storting, it is okay that the Council of State says that he will not answer – it would have been real. But I'm not going to follow it up. The council does not want to answer my question, because he has no answer to it. It has not previously been the union link in the country that has determined the salary to be paid. The Council of State also said that he has notified Stortinget about the further development of the pay and negotiation system. The Council of State has not notified the Storting that this is the consequence I have now pointed out, it should get when the State conducted its negotiations. Where does it say?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1943	It's okay that the representative Lundtigen doesn't like the answer, but there's a difference between not answering and not like the answer you get. It is the government that is authorised to negotiate the main agreement of the State. As I explained in my post, and also in reply to the representative Eirin Sund, Stortinget has announced both in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015 and in Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 on the direction in which the government wants to develop the core tariff system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1950	I'm not talking about like the answer, I'm talking about getting an answer. I noticed that the committee chairman said there was no problem with two different agreements. I noticed that the Council of State said there was no problem that this would lead to increased costs. It is quite obvious that having two contracts will lead to increased costs. To repeat my question one more time, exactly. The paytable on page 3 of the press release of the Council of State of 30 May operates with two paytables, depending on which organisation you are a member of. When has the State, by the Minister, had a similar difference depending on the organisation in which it is organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1959	The key issue here is whether you trust that local businesses, in consultation, cooperation and negotiations with local trustees, can come up with reasonable and fair solutions. That's what this government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1964	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1969	It is strong to experience that the Council of State cannot answer questions, and instead answers that there is a question of trust in local negotiations. That's not what's going on. The issue is that the country has now chosen to conclude agreements involving two pay tables. Organisations represent different interests. That's why there are different organisations. The State must then decide whether the organisations represent different interests, ultimately leading to different agreements involving different pay tables. So far, the tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model have been understood to mean that it was essential for the country to ensure equal pay tables in its operations. That's what's left of it now. When one has previously addressed changes in the system, there has been – as several have been involved – as a result of investigations. The last was NOU 1990:32 on the Government's Wage Committee of 1988, set up by Royal Resolution, composed of parties and various interest groups and academics, sent out to hearings to obtain assessments. It has left the government – in this area as in several other areas. The government introduces a new practice. Investigation instructions – which in other contexts are considered essential, so that one should have an overview of the consequences of new decisions – are not taken so solemnly anymore. There are different types of expert committees that are now to shape the content of policies, expert committees composed of government-trusted men and women, and too much of them are unilaterally appointed. So today, there has been no open-ended preparation for what's going on, and when the Council of State says "modernization," that's what everyone is for – that you should modernise. But having two different pay tables is two different things. It is quite obvious that this will lead to increased bureaucracy. It is also obvious that when one leads more of the wage formation at the local level, it has consequences for the content of the strikerette. The matter should certainly have been discussed. Therefore, the opposition, at the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, has a strong comment with a clear proposal. That proposal lies on our side as the basis for next year’s negotiations – and if it does so in the same way, it will at least change after the elections next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1985	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e1999	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has reviewed the minutes of the Council of State for the second half of 2015. This is done on the basis of the fact that this is a constitutional task within the meaning of the Constitution § 75 f, and according to the first paragraph of § 14-9 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure, it is the task of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee to review these protocols and to suspend the Stortinget. That's what we're doing in this setting. I will briefly make a few comments on what is a unanimous vote by the Committee, because the Committee does not have any comment on the minutes this time either – and I say: not this time either. The Committee has noted that there have been no dissidents in the government during the period in question. Furthermore, the cases of refusal in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2015 have not submitted any comments from the Committee. Departments transmit routinely expanded lists of candidates, providing information on all applicants, including those who have received their names except for publicity. The Committee notes that the departments have submitted sufficient documentation and has no comments on the appointments during the period. Regulations laid down, amended or repealed by the King of State Councils form part of the six-monthly review of the Committee. Furthermore, the Committee has not found any comments in this regard and has not found any basis for asking the Swedish Research Section to review any of the selected regulations. In short, I can say that the Committee has nothing to say, and I am presenting with this Committee's unanimous vote on the review of the State Council's protocols for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2016	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and 6 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2045	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2052	I refer to the settings, and on behalf of the Committee, I would like to stress the particularly important role of the Civil Ombudsman, both for individual citizens and for society as a whole. The institution is important, and he has strong and cross-political support in Stortinget. The Committee also welcomes the active role of the Civil Ombudsman and is documented in the two annual reports. Let me mention in particular the support that is in the committee, which appears in the comment, of the search light on the freedom of expression of the public added as a special theme. It is an important theme, which has gained far greater attention in recent years, and which is also complex, and it expresses satisfaction with its attention. The same applies to the lower processing time as we now see. The entire committee also states that it is serious that local authorities have not adequately respected the statements made by the civilombudsman. The Committee underlines the mission, and a majority in the Committee say that it is a fundamental requirement that the mission be respected by the authorities. Then I will spend some time on the prevention unit against torture and inhuman treatment in the event of a violation of freedom, which is new – just about. two years old this spring. It is too early to draw any final conclusions, but both I and the Committee note that they have not only carried out a series of visits in the last year, but it has also been more than that – they have handled and raised a number of important, fundamental questions. If I were to specifically draw the search light towards one, it would be coercive use, which is an important theme in the message, and which is also particularly mentioned in the Committee's comments. Forced use is undoubtedly very invasive, and there are several problems, or challenges, associated with it. Firstly, a common risk of self-injury and suicide is used as a basis for coercive use, while at the same time it appears that coercive use can increase the risk for the same thing, which I may not think has been adequately explained in discussions around it. There is also evidence of non-necessary coercive use, and there is evidence to suggest that there is a lack of evidence for its necessity. We also highlight the role conflicts between health professionals in this regard. I think we can say that this is perhaps the most important individual relationship – at least what I managed to get with me. I would also like to briefly mention two other aspects that are mentioned in the message and in the comments. One is that it is so obvious that Trandum did not appear to be a suitable place for children, through the comments. One thing to say is a challenge, and the Committee notes that it is necessary to put an end to it if there are to be children there. It must be a dedicated location for them, too, if it is to be used for it. The Committee then notes that the challenges associated with ensuring that the torture convention is maintained if we are to have prisoners in Dutch prisons are unsolved and that it must be resolved and dealt with, as the Storting has previously foreseen. With these comments, I just want to close and say that there is a serious draft of a consensual committee which is behind the comments here, and which is probably satisfied with the work of the Civilo Ombudsman and actually supports him in the Storting, and there are a number of important issues that arise in the two annual reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2069	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2083	There is reason to expect more information on this matter, not because it is more important than the gathering activity of the Civilo Ombudsman, but because it has been more discussed. I'll spend some time on the matter on behalf of the committee. It's to our best knowledge, as it appears in the comments, a very important matter for several reasons. That's what's behind it because a team has a hearing on it, and we've spent a lot of time on it. First of all, the matter is important because it is very rare that a specific message from the Civilobodsman reaches the Stortinget. When the Civil Ombudsman sent us the special message, it was according to him and the office, as it appeared in the hearing, because they have perceived the matter as so important that they would report it. It was also revealed by what the Civilomebodsman said, that he had probably sent the special message also without the direct wish from Stortinget that one could well receive more specific messages. The second reason is that not only are the matters of the message important, but there is a message that is about the very foundation of the authority of the Civil Ombudsman. In the setting of the Pre-Law on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy, a joint committee refers to the following: ‘The Ombudsman’s only reaction would be to express his opinion on the matter. And it is a fundamental prerequisite for the whole scheme that both the complainant and the competent administrative authority will generally accept and bow to his opinion. The Ombudsman shall operate primarily through his strong authority.’.» I stress this, because it shows that it is precisely the case that even the Civil Ombudsman himself actually has to carry out the mandate with which the Stortinget – that is, we – has equipped him. Thirdly, this applies to two very different issues. The one thing is basically important. It has significant possible consequences for many if one were to change the case and follow it. It's a law interpretation. On the one hand, it is very important that what the Civilobodsman does is followed up. But of course it has significant consequences over and above the cases themselves. It is therefore understandable that a department looks more closely at it, and understands that it has consequences. Of course, the other thing is very important to those involved. But she has no major consequences beyond her own. Thus one could say that it would probably be easier, with less consequences, to follow up the statements of the Civil Ombudsman. But the point is that the things in total are so different and cover such a wide field of action, that one must be able to say that it covers different kinds of matters, where it is difficult to imagine a common foundation for why one should not follow the statements. The fourth point is that the case is also important because the role of the Civilo Ombudsman is particularly important in land management matters. It's, of course, a significant conflict and discussion around the management of our land. But it's rarely such cases end up in the legal system. As it turned out during the hearing, very few people have resources for it. Thus, in a good deal of cases, the Civil Ombudsman is the only real instance of control of the administration. So in sum, I think these four moments indicate that this case, beyond the ordinary, is important, and that there was a need for thorough treatment, which also appears in the comments. I would therefore like to make the main comments, which the Committee – that is, in most cases a plurality – has tabled. I'm assuming that the minority will do the right thing for their vision. First of all, the plurality – all the unbecoming Right and the Progress Party – says that it is particularly unfortunate that the administration does not follow the statements of the Civil Ombudsman when it comes to the interpretation of Law Stortinget. The same plurality goes on to say that «the Ministry of Community Affairs and the Ministry of Modernization insists on its interpretation of the law after the Civilombudsman has delivered his opinion interpreting the law differently». [[...]] It is also true that the same plurality suggests that if the ministry's course of action actually expresses a political desire to liberalize the building in the beach zone, the right way to do it is to change the law, rather than challenge the interpretation of the law to the Stortinget. And one reacts to the ministry insisting on its understanding of the law, even after the Civilombodsman at the end of the case said that the law of the department could not be correct. A plurality in the Committee – this time without the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – also says that it should be very good reason for a department to take care of the interpretation of the law to the Sivillombodsmann, and it is difficult to see that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation makes a good enough argument in the matters that the Sivillombodsmann now announces. With this background, the Committee – this time a joint committee – is doing something that is probably a little unusual in such a case. It is not uncommon for us to remind the administration that the Civilombodsman is a trustee of the Stortinget, and that it is a fundamental premise that both the complainant and the relevant administrative authority will follow the ombudsman, but it is more unusual for us to make a proposal for a decision, which reads: ‘The Government of the Central Government is asked to accept and submit to the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman in general’. I am pleased that the entire committee has chosen to support that proposal, which I see as an expression of the fact that the Committee largely takes a view of the important role of the Civil Ombudsman, and understands that it is very important that all parts of the administration actually follow up decisions. I think it has been important to carry out a thorough process in this matter and that a number of people come up with the clear criticism that one has in mind. With that, I recommend setting up the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2117	I want to start this article by referring it a little to the previous case, and just say that for the Workers' Party we strongly support the civil ombudsman's general work and the status the Civil Ombudsman should have in order to exercise the duty of following up the rights of the individual citizen in relation to the administration. It is an important part of our democracy, and it is an important prerequisite for the individual to have their legal and – I would say – actual social rights respected. It was a general consideration, but I want to say it very clearly because it's part of it all. So I just want to refer to the rapporteur's statement here, which was a very good article, and which in all areas really covers what is the view of the Labour Party and my view on this matter. Some considerations and reflections are nevertheless necessary, I think. It is, as the rapporteur said, very rare that the Civil Ombudsman promotes such specific messages. I want to say it this way – and I see that the Civil Ombudsman and his people are present here in Stortinget now – that they now hear that I think it is good that they do it. I think at all that the ombudsmen should use the right that they have, perhaps a little more often, in the sense that we then get up a fundamental discussion that it is often a little difficult to get in connection with the general annual reports that we have for more general and general treatment. That's why it's a call from me because it raises important issues, and we get up the principal discussions. That's exactly what this case is about. This case concerns the authority of the Civil Ombudsman in relation to the administration. It seems, then, that there is a general consensus, cross-political, here in the Grand Council on the understanding of what the Grand Council has adopted with regard to the authority of the Civil Ombudsman and the duty of the administration to follow up the views, directions and opinions of the Civil Ombudsman. But I'm not quite sure about one point, and I hope that this debate can clarify exactly this point, because that's what this is really about. In connection with the Annual Report, there was one thing that we didn't have enough attention to, and I think that the representative Tetzschner can probably handle in the post after me, but in the 2015 Annual Report setting, the Right and the Advance Party go out of a comment that reads like this: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Advance Party, emphasises that it is a fundamental prerequisite for this task to be respected by the authorities.’ So you follow the Civil Ombudsman. They're not including this point. There's a little shade in this that's important to clarify, because it's where the disagreement really goes, and it's a little remarkable that especially the Right in these contexts puts themselves a little bit on the side of understanding that otherwise has broad support in the Storting. That's what this is about, and that's why it's important to clarify what the government's view of this is in these contexts. It is, as was said on the part of the rapporteur, also a very broad field of action presented in this special communication, and demonstrates the need to discuss this in principle. It is clear that we cannot have the situation that we have in this case, that the department does not listen to the Civil Ombudsman who has such a very good record of his position. I think that's very clear. So for its part, the Labour Party fully supports the proposal, and I expect the Council of State to comment on it later in this debate, that it is necessary for the Stortinge to actually adopt something in this matter to make it clear what is the Stortinge's intention of the Civil Ombudsman's authority. There will in itself be a very clear indication of where the Stortinget says: The Storing is behind the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2135	It was a great way out of the building that you were standing behind the Civil Ombudsman. I can join that part of the statement that expresses a general goodwill towards a valuable institution. But that doesn't mean that the laws in which the Stortinget has authorized the Civil Ombudsman, and the assumptions that have led the whole institute, no longer apply. I'll elaborate on it a little bit more. It is true that no matter what we as individuals may feel about the individual cases presented in this particular communication, it is a wild legal reality that the Stortinget did not intend to confer a binding decision-making power on the Civil Ombudsman. This means that the Civil Ombudsman may not review or annul an otherwise lawful decision. He has to live with that, even though he doesn't like all the rashes this brings. The reason for the introduction of the ombudsman system in the area of administration was that it should be a complement to ordinary judicial review. It was to be a cheap, simple and relatively quick offer to individuals who considered themselves unduly affected by administrative decisions. The simplified procedure of the Civil Ombudsman is not always sufficient to assess the case on the basis, for example: relevant counter-respects, such as full counter-rejection in ordinary judicial proceedings may offer. The role of the Civil Ombudsman demonstrates its special justification where unfairness towards a specific party is pointed out – often in the face of an excessive bureaucracy – and where such an assessment of an external and respected professional body leads to the relevant management team being aware of the relevance and importance of the arguments put forward and, as a result, to act following the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman. That's the authority that the Storting has assumed. It is true in our time that there is no one who can immediately claim to have the employment authority. Those times are over. The authority you need must be built up by professional depth and knowledge. That is the kind of authority to which it is intended, at least when in this context we have referred to that authority. It would be contradictory to say that it weakens the Civil Ombudsman because he is being contradicted. What kind of authority is that? It must be a very poorly professionally justified authority that does not tolerate some resistance and counter-arguments. It's not the employment authority we're talking about here, it's the kind of professional knowledge that matters get through the discussion with the Civil Ombudsman. I do not ignore the fact that there are many not entirely optimal administrative decisions that just make such a critical review by the Civil Ombudsman necessary and valuable. In its communication under paragraph 2, the Civil Ombudsman has himself stated: ‘The Ombudsman’s opinions are not legally binding, nor can the Ombudsman reverse decisions taken by the Ombudsman. However, the size has provided that the administration complies with the Ombudsman’s opinions.’;» I very much agree with these assessments. I'm also glad to hear that in practice it happens in most cases. Perhaps the Storting should be more briefed on the statistics on how many issues are not actually followed up. It could have been interesting management information. The civil officer continues and says: ‘The Civil Ombudsman is appointed by the Stortinget to supervise the administration. It is therefore particularly unfortunate if the administration does not follow the Ombudsman’s opinions on the interpretation of laws adopted by the Stortinget. This undermines the Ombudsman’s ability to carry out his duties and weakens parliamentary control of the administration.’.» Then I think maybe the next proofreading should look through these formulations one more time. The majority actually uses parliamentaryism to control the administration. It is the government that is at the top of the administration, and it is the government that may have to address its requirements and control. Otherwise we would get it in the back door. In particular, if the Storting says that individual matters which we in this way indirectly decide on should be closely linked to parliamentary control. We would then have something we should not want in our constitution, namely a parliamentary control body and thus a short way to the rulings of party politics in the resolution of specific individual cases. The greatest and foremost task of the size is to design general legal standards, and then to entrust them to the judiciary and to the administration on the basis of established criteria. Jussen can sometimes produce results that may seem unreasonable to an individual by its system logic. The civilian ombudsman's strength lies in entering and viewing such conclusions from the small man's perspective and, if necessary, recommending another solution. If the legal rules prevent this, it is necessary to draw attention to weaknesses in the law, which the Storting can do as a legislator. Further, I would like to point out that in cases there is access to contribute to free handling, where the case can be fully resolved in the court. I believe that this should be a particularly topical procedure in which the interests of two individuals compete and where the need for a proper legal solution is great. I would like to stress why I believe that an independent court hearing is preferable as a solution in such cases. This is because the courts are handling the cases that are being referred to them, but without initiating them. It may be said that the Civil Ombudsman does not initiate the cases that are being referred to, but he has such a vast slicing authority that he can in practice choose the matters he thinks are particularly interesting to pursue. Then you can get into the situation that it is the Civil Ombudsman who, through his selection, chooses the side of one private party against the other and then acts as a representative for the other. It doesn't give much legitimacy to that of the private parties that are losing, and that, in fact, according to our rules of play, have to come to terms with the result. Without going into the details of the matter, it has been difficult in the special communication to see the small man who has suffered under an unfair administrative decision. On the contrary, I have seen it there that the small man has been granted a building permit by the administration, and that perhaps the case handler of the Civil Ombudsman if he had been employed in a municipality, would have refused him. If I were to provide the Civil Ombudsman with advice – which he is, of course, quite free to follow – it would have to be necessary to use the special means of communicating in particular to clarify the core area of the Civil Ombudsman's task, namely, where the system logic of the administration has contributed to concretely unfair results for individuals. Here it seems – if I can allow myself the tip formulation – that it is the system logic and the ideal interests that have been realised in relation to the concrete basic ownership interests, what is experienced at the level of the citizen. Otherwise, I will round off these considerations by referring to our state custom based on the principle of power distribution. It might as well be called the max division principle, so that no instance is superfluous. This means that it is the Stortinget that is to decide on the general legal standards to be applied. Concrete application of law is added to the administration authorised for this purpose or to the courts. It is this idea that is behind Storting's choice that the civil ombudsman's opinions have never been considered legally binding. As a result, there may arise, and I would like to add that there should be, situations in which a competent administrative body which has taken a valid decision maintains its understanding of the law, even if the Civil Ombudsman has another. Finally, I got some challenges from the committee leader. I believe I have replied to this with authority that the authority is not the employment authority, but the professional depth of the Civil Ombudsman can bring a case. Having regard to the considerations that the Stortinge did when the law on the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for the administration was passed, I would argue that if the Stortinge had at the time seen that there should be a one-to-one relationship between the Ombudsman's opinions and the effectiveness of the administration, we would not have had any institution of the Ombudsman. Then we'd have an administrative court. Stortinget did not explicitly go into that. I would also like to make it clear that it is entirely unproblematic for us to support that proposal, because we see that the administration largely follows the advice given to them by the Civil Ombudsman. Furthermore, such a decision will not alter the competence or duties of the Civil Service Ombudsman. Otherwise, the pre-workers who followed the drafting of the Civil Ombudsman Act will continue to act as law-makers, no matter how we choose to design the words of a decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2182	The Christian People's Party has not, either in the media or during its proceedings in the Committee, taken a position on the two issues of conflict mentioned in the separate communication. In our opinion, it is not the role and task of Storting to conclude in favour of any party here. We stick to the principal issues raised by matters, relating to the role of the Ombudsman. It's been important to us. When we thought it was right to invite you to the hearing on this particular communication, it was to illustrate the follow-up by the departments to the Civil Ombudsman's opinions. The two issues mentioned in that communication were also the starting point for the case, and these were the ones that updated the issues. The approach shall be in principle and – in our opinion – related to the role and mandate of the Civil Ombudsman, given by the Stortinget. When the administration – fortunately exceptionally – does not follow the recommendation of the Civil Ombudsman, and when a specific notice is delivered to the Stortinget, as it has now been done, we address the issues raised by the matter, but thus without taking a substantive position on the outcome of the case of construction in the beach zone or in the exemption case. This is also evident from our comments. It's the principle approach to how the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations are followed up, which we think is interesting. It is important that the Committee and the Stortinget have up-to-date knowledge of the role of the Civil Ombudsman and the understanding of this role by the departments. It is the task of Stortingen to ensure that the mandate given to the Ombudsman by Stortinget is also reflected in the interaction between the Ombudsman and the departments. As Stortinget’s trustee, the Civil Ombudsman shall contribute to ensuring that the public administration does not wrong individuals. The Civil Ombudsman therefore carries out a very important control work for Stortinget. Having regard to the second paragraph of Section 12 of the Civil Ombudsman Act, the Ombudsman has now, in a separate communication, briefed the Stortinget on two matters in which the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has not followed the Ombudsman’s opinions, and has therefore not followed the interpretation of the Civil Ombudsman’s law. The issues are different in nature. The Ombudsman points out that in each way they are nevertheless of such a nature that he has found reason to draw attention to them. He stressed that the lack of follow-up from the management of the Civil Ombudsman's statements is very unfortunate and could undermine the Civil Ombudsman's ability to carry out his mission and, in the next round, contribute to weakening his legitimacy. The Christian People's Party understands this view. It is particularly unfortunate if the administration does not follow the Ombudsman’s opinions on the interpretation of laws adopted by the Storting. This undermines, in our view, the ability of the Ombudsman to carry out his duties and weakens parliamentary control over the administration. In a relatively short period of time, there have been two cases in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has not followed the Ombudsman’s opinions. It applies in a great principleal interpretation of the law, and it applies in a matter of less principleal importance. One must therefore be able to ask whether the department basically follows its own intentions to follow the Civil Ombudsman's opinions as a general rule and whether the Civil Ombudsman is granted the respect that Stortinget has based on the scheme itself. It is natural that this question is asked without going into the material aspects of the two specific issues. In this context, it is also worth noting that there is an overall committee that reminds the administration that the Civil Ombudsman is a trustee of the Stortinget. And although the Civil Ombudsman’s opinions are not legally binding, it is a fundamental condition of the scheme that both the complainant and the competent administrative authority generally accept and accept the Civil Ombudsman’s opinions. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal for a decision to be put to the vote and refers otherwise to the case's thorough examination of the case by the applicant's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2203	Initially, I take the word very briefly to give commendation to the case rapporteur for good and thorough work on the matter, not least during the hearing, but also here, and initially supports the position as it exists. If you read it, the Left is in touch with the case rapporteur and the Labour Party and forms the majority in a number of those comments. As I also commented during the hearing, in the Left we fully support the Civil Ombudsman, his role and independence. We think it's an important part of our democracy, and we don't think it was inappropriate or incorrect in any way to bring the matter to the attention of the Storting as they did, so we could easily get the impression that at least one party thought was problematic. We've all had previous lives before we became politicians, and as a lawyer, I also enjoyed bringing some cases in for the Civil Ombudsman. I felt that it was a useful actor to be in touch with, and I also feel as a politician that it is a useful and important actor in our democracy. When you have free speaking time, you can quickly be tempted to comment on the details of the hearing, and even after we have heard the representative, Tetzschner, go into the principle of power distribution and everything that belongs to it, it is very easy to get torn down and start commenting on all those parts, but I will refrain from that temptation. But I noticed that there were some replays from some other lawyers who had seen the hearing, and it was a little funny – one could at least easily get the impression, as some others got the impression from the outside – that the representative Tetzschner had then tried to teach the current civil ombudsman, who has been a former Supreme Court judge and so far also professor of law, and perhaps will be considered one who can understand the law of administration and the principle of power distribution quite well. After the hearing, there were some outsiders who wrote this article in the paper and thought it was an embarrassing tendon. With those words, I just want to say that I'm going to end up full about the Civil Ombudsman's authority, not least the institution as it exists, and I'm 100 pst. Convinced that the Civil Ombudsman fully understands both the rules of the Administration Act and the principle of power distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2214	The Civil Ombudsman is the chief executive officer of the Stortinge. He is an important contributor to the distribution of power between administration, Storting and the court. One of the most important tasks of the Civil Ombudsman is to prevent the administration from doing wrong. Under his own law, he will report to Stortinget both annually and when it is otherwise appropriate. So he is one of the tools that Stortinget has equipped to ensure that the government complies with the laws that Stortinget has given. That's why it's unfortunate when the administration of two issues that we're discussing today, chooses to ignore the Civil Ombudsman's statements. Of course, the Ombudsman’s opinions are not legally binding, there is no disagreement, nor can he reverse decisions taken by the administration. However, Civil Ombudsman Falkanger has made it clear to the Committee that the Stortinget has provided that the administration complies with the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman. When the administration chooses not to do so, one of the main functions of the Civil Ombudsman is also to be able to report this to Stortinget, and that is what the Civil Ombudsman did in this case when he delivered a separate notice to Stortinget. The fact that the administration chooses to disregard the view of the Civil Ombudsman in these specific communications may help to undermine the Ombudsman’s ability to carry out his mission and thus, in principle, weaken parliamentary control over the administration. The two issues that we are talking about here, the two specific messages, are different in nature. However, in each way they have such a fundamental importance for the ombudsman system that it is good that the Storting became aware of them, and the Greens are pleased that the Civil Ombudsman used his access to alert them to the Stortinget. None of these matters are in themselves the matter of the control committee, but they show very clearly the primary importance of the Civil Ombudsman's follow-up to the cases. Thus, the most fundamental issue is that of building bans in the beach zone and whether it has an effect on older control plans, and here the Civil Ombudsman is quite clear in his interpretation that the building ban in the beach zone will also apply to older control plans, and says that «the beach zone will be expanded contrary to the intentions of the legislator». Fredrik Holth and Nikolai Winge from Norway's environmental and life sciences universities received two years ago an assignment from the Ministry of the Environment to develop a new law counsellor in the beach zone. The current Ministry of the Environment largely agreed with these interpretations, but disagreed on one point, namely that the building ban in the coastal zone should not have an effect on older regulatory plans that allow for development. This guide has not yet been published. Of course, it is not up to the Greens to decide whether this is due to the legal disagreement, but it is at least unfortunate that this remains an undecided point. The Ministry, in its proposal to amend the Law on Planning and Building, which was sent to the hearing in August, proposed that their interpretation be clarified in the legislative text. So the Ministry's understanding of law is based on taking these possible legislative changes, which are the ministry's view, in advance. That is why the Civil Ombudsman’s opinion is very principleal and can have considerable practical consequences, because it means that all municipalities with older control plans in the beach zone must develop new plans or change the plans, so that they do not allow them to permit development. It is quite understandable that this is a difficult political problem, but it is therefore very important to decide how this matter should be interpreted and what is the intention of the legislator, and it is very important that we take into account what the Civil Ombudsman says on such a question, because this case shows the consistency of choosing one or the other interpretation. In the opinion of the Green Party, this is a very good example of the department having to take the Civil Ombudsman's view into account and translate it into practice by sending out the message about the correct interpretation of the law to the municipalities. If this does not happen, if we continue to have a situation where the department ignores the interpretation of the Civil Ombudsman's law, we will also have a situation where it is very unclear to what extent it is necessary for the departments to comply with the Ombudsman's views on similar fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2229	In the configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the following recommendations are made: ‘The Government of the Central Government is asked to accept and submit to the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman in general’. I agree with this recommendation. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has a very important role to play in controlling the decisions of the administration. Although the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman is not formally binding, such opinions must, as a general rule and in general, be followed up by the administration for the proper functioning of the scheme. Therefore, it is only in very special cases that the administration does not follow the Ombudsman. An overview from the Civil Ombudsman sent to the Swedish Research Office in January this year shows that this has happened in 25 cases from 2004 until today. 20 of these cases were dealt with by the previous government. In a recent coincidence, this has occurred in two cases under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In these two cases, following a thorough professional assessment, the ministry found it appropriate to maintain its previous position after the Ombudsman’s opinion. At the same time, there was a need to clarify the changes to the Law on Planning and Building, which is followed up. As mentioned, I believe that the Ombudsman has a very important role to play in controlling the administration. The Ombudsman shall, in accordance with the law of the Ombudsman, § 3 ‘seek to ensure that there is no injustice to the individual citizen in the public administration’. It is important that the individual citizen be able to complain to the Civil Ombudsman and not go to the courts. The two specific issues raised in the communication relate to minor measures where authorisation has been granted under the Planning and Building Act. There are neighbors who have complained to the Ombudsman. These are not individuals who have not been authorised, but really are issues where there is disagreement between neighbours. The most important and most fundamental of the two cases relate to the construction ban in the beach zone and to the relationship to older control plans without a specific building limit. This is a general question of the interpretation of the Law on Planning and Building, and this is the issue of interpretation dealt with by the Ministry. The Ministry’s interpretation is based on the Act’s transitional provision and has been based on the Ministry ever since the Act on Planning and Building of 27 June 2008 entered into force on 1 July 2009. This means that this interpretation of the law has been based on the previous government and on the current government. The rapporteur's observations asked whether the practice was a political desire for liberalisation. I can refute that. Here we have followed the same practice as the previous government. The position of the Ministry results in the requirement for a specified building limit to be applied only to newer plans. It implies that plans adopted before 1 July 2009 continue to apply even if they do not have the construction limit. The tightening of the building ban in the 100-metre belt along the sea, which took place in the 2008 Planning and Building Act, was intended to work only in the future. It was not meant to set aside previously adopted plans. If this were meant to be the case, it would have economic and administrative consequences so much that it would be discussed in detail in the billing proposal. Let me also refer to the Ministry of the Environment's guidance on statesmen, municipalities and others. The Department of the Environment’s counsellor T-1491 Area Area of the Municipality Plan, published in 2012, reads as follows on page 92: ‘With reference to the transitional provision of the fourth paragraph of Section 34-2, the provision is understood as meaning that the construction ban does not apply where the whole or part of the prohibitive zone is outsourced to construction areas on a plan adopted under the 1985 Planning and Building Act.’ This shows that the departments have been consistent in their guidance on how to interpret this law. The former Ministry of the Environment and the position of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has been used for a long time and, in my view, provides a sensible solution in practice. The Ministry has therefore proposed that this be clarified in the law. It would create uncertainty if the interpretation were to be amended in an interim period until the law was amended. In addition, modifying the interpretation would require a number of previous building permits to be reviewed and, where appropriate, re-examined. Many families, many individuals who have listed measures in confidence in granted permits, would be affected, and there would be unnecessary proceedings. The second case concerns the construction of a garage in an area reserved for construction purposes in the area area of the municipal plan. The case concerns exemptions from the provisions of the municipal plan, which require a regulatory plan before it can be built. The Ministry found that there was a basis for granting exemptions from the regulatory plan requirement in order to build this garage in this specific case. This applies to a small measure that does not affect important interests or consistency. Finally, I would like to make it clear that I believe that the decision in these two cases does not weaken the Civil Ombudsman. On the contrary, the cases, notification and consultation subsequently show that the role of the Ombudsman is very important. There is a need for an independent control body which may point to weaknesses in administrative decisions and which may contribute to resolving difficult legal issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2272	I think it's been a very straightforward round of this case, so I'll just pick up a couple of the moments that have come up during the case, and round off. First of all, the representative Tetzschner said that the Stortinget might want to learn more about the statistics and how often decisions are actually followed. That's actually exactly what the Storting in this case has done. As the councils were just about to attend, we got a note from the distribution section where a systematic review of how often decisions were actually followed up and not followed up. It was supplemented by letters to the Civilombodsman, with some questions relating to it, and, on the other hand, letters to the Council of State. Fortunately, the drawing was that the decision of the Civilombodsman was taken by the central administration and the general administration. Then the Civilombodsman also pointed out through the Annual Report that there are certain shades in that picture. One thing that the Committee was concurred with in the previous case was that the municipalities seem to be somewhat weaker in following up decisions by the Civil Ombudsman than other bodies. This case was not expressed because it is a general problem in society that no one cares about what the Civil Ombudsman says – then it would probably be a slightly different kind of case we had here. It's the specific relationship that a department of two very different issues – and the only two issues in which they've been given an opinion against them – had to follow the opinion, and that the Civilobodsman chose to send a special message because the cases were serious, which means that a large number of people in the committee, i.e. all except Right, chose to have a hearing, and that a large plurality, all except Right and Advance Party, has expressed various forms of criticism through comments. The second is – briefly to the Council of State – about the political aspects of this. There is no doubt, as it emerged through the hearing, that the interpretation was the same under the previous government – and under the previous Council of State, it can be added. What I said in my comment was not meant to suggest or ask if it was a political wish, but I quoted from the comments, which says that if there was a political desire for change, there had to be a different way than in this case. Again, it is important to point out that this case did not come up with the fact that a majority here has a different political view – for everything I know, there may be different political views on these two issues and how we want to have things settled in them – but on the basis of the fact that the Civil Ombudsman has presented both matters in the way they should, after their mandate. The same applies to the political side of it, as the representative Tetzschner also mentioned. He said this doesn't apply to the poor man, because the poor man was given the building permits. Well, the law shall be equal to both the poor and the great man, and both to the one who gets the building permits, and to the one who doesn't get. The Civil Ombudsman has brought up the case here, the one from a legal interpretation and the other from the decision itself. It is very central that we do not politicise the position of the Civil Ombudsman at e.g.. to assume that a criticism is of greater value if a person is not granted a building permit than if he is granted a building lease. Finally, only a question that came up, first from the committee leader and then from the representative Tetzschner, about the authority of the Civilombudsman is based on his professionalism. I am basically in agreement with the representative Tetzschner said that the authority of the Civilombodsmann must be based on his professionalism, not that there is an automatic way in which the administration should follow up, even if it should. But where I think we disagree, the plurality of the committee considers the professionalism of the Civilobodsman to be very solid in these two matters. As it says in the setting, we think he argues very well in the cases, and that they are so different that it is difficult to find a common feature that they could not be followed up. We think the counter-argument that they are not followed up is weak. Then I agree with the Council of State that the authority of the Civilbodsman per now is not weakened by these matters. But if it were to be such that a specific message from the caretaker just slipped by, without anyone caring, without any particular follow-up in the Storting, it might be suggestive that he could become weak. Now, on the contrary, I would say that the authority of the Civilbodsman exists, and perhaps even is strengthened, through the handling of these two matters by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2291	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2305	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2312	Seed funds are an important industrial policy tool, which is useful for many who start up with new ideas and create jobs. Seed funds are important for investment in the critical time phase of many companies, where lack of capital often stops both growth and further development. In 2008, the seed funds were also evaluated, and one found that the seed funds filled an investment room that was not covered by other public instruments and that each crown of state capital in the scheme triggered four kronor of private capital. The evaluation also showed that the funds created before 2000 had a lower return than expected, but that the new funds created in 2005–2007 were doing better, especially with the transfer of competence to portfolio companies. The National Audit Office has now re-examined the seed funds and the aim of the investigation was to assess the results of the scheme and the Food and Fisheries Ministry and Innovation Norway’s follow-up to the Storting decision and decisions. Seed funds are divided into three waves: wave 1, from 1998–2013, with one land cover and five regional seed funds wave 2, from 2006–2021, with four nationwide seed funds, and from 2006–2023, with five district seed funds; In addition, wave 3 started in 2013, but is not included in the survey this time, when the fund has recently been created. The main findings of the Riksrevision are that from 1998 to 2014, there are actually no large growing companies that have grown up from the seed phase, there is a high risk that several seed funds in wave 2 cannot repay loans and interest to the State, that Innovation Norway follows up the seed funds too little systematically, and that the Ministry has not provided sufficient support for the learning and follow-up of long-term results of the seed schemes. In wave 1, there is a huge loss for both the state and private, and the state loses 456 million. kr. In addition, out of 173 investments, no more than approx. 18 growing enterprises with 10 to 49 added. Similarly, in wave 2, there is a high risk that the government will not be able to recover loans and interest from either national or regional funds. And there are only four growth enterprises with 10-19 added of 67 investments on land-cover funds, and approx. 11 with growth in the value creation of the district funds. We note that the Riksrevision also says that there is a weak basis for learning and monitoring the long-term outcome of the seed funds, and that there is extensive reporting from Innovation Norway to the Ministry, but that the ongoing reporting lacks systematic analysis. The Riscrevision recommends that the Ministry should follow up the results of the Seed Fund better, such as: define what can be expected to be a good result for the overall objectives of seed schemes to produce new crops. In addition, provision must be made for reporting from Innovation Norway, which can better produce its current results and which can be used for learning and improvement. The Ministry must ensure that Innovation Norway facilitates a less vulnerable and more systematic follow-up of the schemes, and Innovation Norway should establish more systematic approaches to the follow-up of seed schemes. The Council of State has blackened the Riksrevision and itself says that there is room for improvement in the administration of both the State and the Innovation of Norway, and the Council of State states that concrete measures will be considered more closely. In the Committee we are quite a few in this matter, we are some with the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and we look forward to the concrete actions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2343	I think the Riksrevision report gave way to a lot of interesting considerations, because it is clear that Norway is facing a rather tough transition, and we are going to try to find out the businesses that are going to move the country forward. For those who don't think it's just ordering a report from the SSB that says it's easier to create jobs in public than in private, this report has given me some thoughts that I want to take up, to find out that the businesses of the future are quite complicated. In particular, I would like to point out the following in the report: «The value of wave 2 enterprises is also lower than comparable enterprises in which the funds were close by investing and lower than comparable enterprises owned by private funds.» It gives some signals about both the selection of the types of enterprise you go into, and perhaps what kind of management you run — you really stimulate growth and development — and especially when you put it in context with what's under point 1.2.2 about the administrative costs of the fund, like ‘making up about a quarter’ of the allocated capital. It's a pretty high administrative share. The question then arises: Is seed funds the most effective way to reach businesses? In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have a recent evaluation of instruments, and it is very clear that these are the general instruments that take on a broad and nationwide scale, which are the most important instruments. In this case, the Tax Fund notes that it is perhaps the most effective instrument. So I took the word most to say a little bit about what kind of means it is that actually reaches, and that has the best chance of succeeding. I understand that the Riksrevision wants a stronger follow-up, and that they focus on it – it is well in and of their own accord. But I think the fundamental questions here are whether seed funds are the solution, or whether there are other instruments that can have a lot more impact in terms of future value creation. I think you have to start looking at: are you able to attract the right projects when you start seed funds? It is quite dramatic when there is a lower return on the projects under consideration than it is in the projects under consideration, and also that there is a lower return on the projects within seed than similar projects managed in the general market. Then there's a lot of evidence that you might not reach the goal. Then there is the question of whether you have the skills needed to manage it better than the market, and last but not least, there is a question of whether you can defend an administrative cost of 25 pst. of the funds allocated. I'm in the nutrition committee, and I think this national audit report gives very good consideration to what kind of instruments we should actually try to focus on in the future. I think we'll take it with us in the future evaluations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2357	Seed funds are one of the instruments to stimulate more viable crops. This is a short and good thing about facilitating companies to get through a demanding start-up phase, which too many start-ups can experience as a bloodbath. Success in innovation and innovation is crucial for the development of tomorrow's societies. Today we have services and products we could hardly dream of just 30 years ago. We can thank smart entrepreneurs and not least risky investors for this. At the same time, politicians need to do what we can to contribute to good business environment and growth opportunities – and especially for entrepreneurs. Valuation is the basis for well-being. Innovation, innovation and value creation are driving Norway forward. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is important that the state facilitates the start of new innovative and innovative companies. Here the Seed Funds are one of several relevant instruments. The model of a nationwide seed fund implies that managers are selected by Innovation Norway in the light of a competition. Private investors are supported by the fact that they are given a higher holding than their capital contribution should be. This is a good model, which also ensures that private capital and competences are triggered, and the funds are managed in a professional way. In the budget agreement for the current year, the majority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, went into the creation of a new Seed Fund for Agder/Telemark in line with the established model. Norwegian industry is in a difficult period of time linked to lower oil prices and increasing unemployment. The process of transition requires the creation of new jobs. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is important to have a new seed fund that helps to create these new jobs, and we are pleased that there was a majority for this. Localisation in Agder/Telemark means that the fund has a natural place in a region that feels strongly about the ringing effect of the downturn. We believe that this can help create new jobs. The Seed Funds are important, and the National Audit Office points to several elements that can make the scheme work even better. The National Audit Office has assessed the results of the Seed Funds against the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. This includes assessments of the contribution of the Funds to new viable growth businesses. Is e.g. the return on the seed funds is sufficient for the State to repay its capital, and how has the follow-up from the Ministry of Innovation and Innovation Norway been? These are some of the questions that the Riksrevision has tried to answer, and the Riksrevision's review points to a lot of weaknesses that we should notice, among other things. as regards the follow-up both from the Ministry and from Innovation Norway, which was also referred to by the rapporteur. The Christian People's Party supports the recommendations made by the National Audit Office. We note that the Council of State in its letter also acknowledges the need for improvements in the management of the scheme. Just because the Seed Funds are the most relevant instruments now, at a time when conversion is absolutely necessary, it is important that the Funds function well. That is why we believe that the Riksrevision report is an important basic document when the Council of State and the Stortinge are going to make further assessments. I trust that the Council of State will follow this up in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2374	It's a unanimous attitude, but I still want to give some necessary considerations. Seed funds are commercial limited liability companies operated by private managers. The capital comes both from the state and from private investors. The purpose of the State capital injection is for the funds to release private capital for investment in enterprises in what is called the seed phase here. The concept of seed phase is new to me. When you sow a seed, you get a growth, so that's probably the early growth phase you're talking about here. Either it's seed, or it's growth. This has grown badly. It has sprouted poorly, and the one who sows is then faced with the question of whether one should go again, or whether to bet on something else. I think that's what's going on here. The National Audit Office points out that during the period 1998–2014 no large crop holdings have emerged, there is a high risk, Innovation Norway has followed up little systematically, and the Ministry has not adequately facilitated the learning and follow-up of long-term results of the Seed Scheme. In good Norwegian, it's probably fair slaughter. This has really sprouted poorly, it has probably been exposed to ice burning – there is not much left. Then comes the Riksrevision with its recommendations, which are well-intentioned. The committee writes in its configuration that there is room for improvement. Yes, it must be safe. The Council of State states that concrete measures will be assessed in greater detail and this is reassuring. The Committee awaits this. I just want to say it -- to have the analogy to the concept of seed -- that seeds need to be sown on fertile soil. The things that grow up then must be well cared for under the awake, professional and competent eyes. There are many dangers, there are many demanding things that a germinal plant is exposed to. What we've been told here from the Riksrevision is that it hasn't happened. Technology-based enterprises cannot in this way be dependent on state capital at an early stage. These were bad results. I very much agree with the representative, Gundersen, who said it in a different way, but I felt it was the same conclusion. I hope that the Council of State will come back with a thorough assessment of whether this is the right way to operate, or whether you have to do something else on the ground you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2393	Conversion of the economy is a high priority for the government. One of the ways we can facilitate migration is through business-oriented measures that can generate more new profitable businesses and projects that the market does not want to finance alone. Since 1998, three generations of seed funds have been a central part of these measures for changing governments. The funds have had several objectives, including financing and contributing to young innovative growth enterprises, triggering private capital and creating viable management environments. Overall, the government's financing of seed funds amounts to more than 2.6 billion. kr, including the three funds under construction. Unfortunately, the first two generations of seed funds have not provided the results we want, neither in terms of the development of the enterprises, nor in terms of yield. The National Audit Office points out that from these funds no enterprises with more than 50 employees have been created where the investments have been made in the seed phase and that there is a high risk that the State will not receive repayment of interest and deductions. Of course, I'm not satisfied with these results. We are not alone in the challenge of generating returns from seed funds. European seed funds also have low yields – about 0 pst. average. I believe the main reason for the low return is the demanding mandate to invest in young innovative enterprises with growth potential. A lot of these will fail. At the same time, the stars of these businesses are important in creating growth. Because the early stages are so demanding, we see that private investors are reluctant to invest in the early stages. This is why state action is required. Despite its weaknesses, the Seed Funds also have advantages compared to pure grants, which are often the alternative to investment with this type of risk. We get with private capital and competence, we give companies incentives to take the right risk and now milestones to trigger more funding. In addition, history shows that despite weak results, there is some return of capital to the state. The first seed funds were new work, which has taught us a lot. We have learned from the experience. New seed funds are on average larger than in the past and are more close to the market in their capital structure by now participating in equity and giving AIFMs more flexibility to follow up the best investments, in line with market practices. In addition, we build on enhanced competence by renewing trust in managers of previous generations of seed funds. Through the creation of new funds in Trondheim and Oslo, we have seen that third generation seed funds are attractive to both investors and managers. However, it is such that the state has little influence on the development of the funds in addition to creating the framework conditions for investors and AIFMs. We are bound by agreements of up to 15 years duration. This gives AIFMs and investors predictability to implement their strategies and develop companies based on their competence. I believe that the Riksrevision has made a good and thorough report on the seed funds, and we have, of course, noticed the criticism that the Riksrevision presents – both to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and to Innovation Norway. Together with Innovation Norway, we therefore look at the improvements we can make, based on the National Audit Office’s report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2424	I would like to start by saying that I wish this matter had not come to Stortinget, and that it would not have been necessary to conduct this debate, simply because this was not to happen in Norway. That's my first sentence. Then I will also start by referring to the Storting's previous treatment of this matter, which took place on 1 June 2015, i.e. a little longer. In this respect, I refer formally to the Committee’s position 260 S for 2014-2015. It is also necessary to point out that it was a unanimous committee that opened the case and carried out a comprehensive consultation before the plenary session of the Stortinge at that time, i.e. in 2015. It was also before today's proceedings that an overall committee decided to reopen the case. It was also a unanimous committee that decided that it should be a new consultation. During the examination of the contents of the committee and who was to be invited to the hearing, the representatives of the Committee expressed their view that the hearing should not be conducted, stated the basic arguments for their views and attached a protocol. This has been set out in detail in the vote, and as the rapporteur, I would like to state that, of course, the representatives of the Committee will explain their views. I am pleased, after two years of working on this matter in the Committee, that all the other parties – that is, outside the Right – are behind the majority position presented here today. It shows that there is a very broad majority in the Storting that is of the opinion that it was right and absolutely necessary to deal with the matter as it has been done, and that supports the conclusions behind it. So to the point, corruption is in violation of human rights. Corruption maintains poverty and hinders the development of wealth. Corruption undermines democracy. Corruption prevents competition and undermines the market. Therefore, corruption is illegal, under both Norwegian and international law. Corruption is morally reprehensible and politically totally unacceptable. Corruption is also present in our own society, so we have to be on guard and never let ourselves entangle in a notion that this concerns everyone else, but not us. Corruption takes many forms. There's no longer money in brown envelopes, but smart creations of fictional companies, with owners in countries that live by hiding them and its values. In order to avoid corruption scandals, all Norwegian companies might be able to stay away from countries where corruption is prevalent. We don't want that. There is a broad political consensus that it is generally positive that Norwegian companies engage internationally, including in countries where companies will face ethical challenges. This is where the clear message of ownership policy on zero tolerance for corruption comes in. The Government and the Storting send a message about some kind of balance. It is free to establish itself in countries where corruption is prevalent, but it is zero tolerance for the same corruption. The message is that those who act in a country characterized by corruption must be aware of what their actions actually contribute to. They must deal with the risk of corruption, identify risk factors and have procedures for follow-up and regular review of them, and there must be a clear anchoring of management. In other words, these safeguards cannot be overlooked or sidelined. There is nothing – I underline, nothing – that is called a little tolerance for corruption. If it turns out impossible, you just have to stand out. There is a clear expectation of how companies operate, that as Transparency International puts it, they are part of the solution to the problem and not part of the problem. This applies to the highest extent where the country is the owner or the partner. The same rules apply where the State is a minority owner of a company that again owns parts of another company, as in our case with VimpelCom. There is no more or less tolerance for corruption in those cases, although it has to be done differently and is more demanding. Telenor has argued in this case that they have done a great job implementing their anti-corruption program in VimpelCom. I believe that. I'm sure they did. But at least we can now conclude that there has been no success. However, my point is that when there is no way of implementing or correcting the instruments underlying the fight against corruption, the impact of which is not beneficial, and if the deviations are unacceptable, they must withdraw, as the new Telenor group leader has decided. I also note, with satisfaction, that the Council of State has expressed the same view in a meeting she had a few days ago with 30 central directors of companies that are wholly or partly owned by the State. The Committee has registered this and will express its satisfaction with the political position and position of the Council of State in this area. So to the next: it's the police and prosecution authority that's investigating any violation of the law against corruption. Of course it is. However, it is at the heart of the work and responsibility of the Monitoring Committee, as defined in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, to follow up on the fact that the decision of the Grand Duchy on state ownership is upheld. There is no contradiction between politics and the police here. Rather on the contrary, the majority gives additional authority to the police’s work in the manner in which the majority of the committee has understood its role. And as the rapporteur on the matter, I am pleased to be able to establish that a broad majority here in Stortingen agrees with such an understanding. As the last time we discussed the matter, the task of the Control Committee has been to identify the extent to which the Council of State has understood, overview and control of the company she is assigned to manage, and whether she is following up on her own and the majority of the population's policies in practice, and how active the department has been in its own dialogue with Telenor and Telenor's partnership in VimpelCom. As in the previous consultation, the Committee has also stressed whether the ownership management communicated in the ownership message, as reported in the Notice. St. 27 for 2013–2014 and adopted by the Stortinget, have been followed up. In the Communication, the expectation of the company's efforts to prevent corruption is reinforced by the Council of State of Malta, and the Stortinget has expressed what must be called zero tolerance for corruption. This case was actually closed from Stortinget's side. It was not the Storting’s own initiative that led to the case being raised again – until 30 October 2015. It was only when, in a letter dated 30 October 2015, the Minister of Economic Affairs informed the Committee that new information was available for the Ministry, and it appeared that this information was of a serious nature that the Committee decided on 3 November 2015 to reopen the case. It was also a unanimous committee that planned to hold a new hearing on this basis on 16 December 2015 – a unanimous committee. That was not the case, for the Committee received on 4 December 2015 a letter from the Advocate General showing that, in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, there was a real risk that a hearing at that time might harm the investigation and a request that the Committee assess the possibility of postponing the hearing for six months. The request of the National Advocate was met all the time when the committee's responsibilities and duties are different from those of the police and, of course, the committee would not stand in the way of the investigation. In the meantime, the following also occurred: the first hearing’s hypothesis of corruption in relation to VimpelCom’s acquisition of telecommunications licences in Uzbekistan became true when VimpelCom announced on 17 February 2016 that the company had entered into an agreement with US and Dutch prosecution authorities. As part of the agreement, VimpelCom paid SEK 795 million. US dollars in fines and fines to US and Dutch authorities and accepted to be subject to independent external follow-up for at least three years. VimpelCom acknowledged in the agreement that corruption had taken place. One of the world’s biggest corruption cases was a fact, and a Norwegian company, Telenor, which has been operating all over the world for a number of years and has renewed great respect and trust, was involved – but not directly. And let me stress this with ‘not directly’, because a lot of attempts have been made to present our perception of this in a distorted way, especially in two areas. The first is that the control committee has never confused VimpelCom and Telenor, but in the last round we pointed out that Telenor, after all, is the largest minority victory, with 43 per cent voting weight at the general assembly in VimpelCom, and has nominated three board members to VimpelCom's board, and was veto right when the business in Uzbekistan took place. But we are fully aware that the Norwegian State has neither transparency nor control over VimpelCom as a company. The second clarification is that the Committee has never blamed Telenor’s employees nor, in any way, believed that they have actively contributed to corruption. The Committee has consistently opposed this. We've always thought and said that such a potential corruption scandal in a company that Telenor is a partner is burdensome to the employees. Another important reason why the audit hearing announced in December was to wait for Deloitte’s independent review of Telenor’s follow-up and management of the ownership of VimpelCom. It was a report that was announced to come in spring 2016, after the telenor board decided in October 2015 to commit Deloitte to a review of Telenor's follow-up and management of the ownership of VimpelCom. On 29 April 2016, Deloitte submitted the final report for the review of Telenor’s management of ownership in VimpelCom. The conclusion was that Deloitte had not found that Telenor's employees had been involved in corruption or other crimes, but discovered weaknesses internally in Telenor, as it was hot. In addition, a central part of the report referred to Telenor’s handling of a serious anxiety message in 2011 from one of Telenor’s employees, which was borrowed by VimpelCom. He communicated his concerns about possible corruption to the leaders of Telenor and Telenor's nominated board members of VimpelCom's board. And here I would like to – clearly and loudly from the spokesperson of Stortingen – to thank the alert especially for the efforts he has made. However, the concern did not go further to Telenor’s then group leader until March 2014 and to Telenor’s board in December 2014. This information was shared with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in October 2015. I repeat this once again, quite deliberately: it went to the board in December 2014, but did not come to the knowledge of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries until October 2015 – ten months after the telenor board was informed about the matter, ten months! And that was the reason why the Minister of Industry made a request to the magnificence and the decision of the Control Committee to reopen the case and to hold a hearing. Once these two reasons for the postponement have been explained, I would like to stress once again that the decision to hold the hearing has always been firm, even though the hearing was not held until 27 May in ours. The new information provided by the Minister of Industry meant that Storting’s treatment had taken place on the wrong premises. The Minister of Economic Affairs simply provided incomplete information to the Stortinget because it was this information she was with. On this basis, the Committee considered that a new comprehensive audit hearing was necessary. It is in itself right that the Storting should no longer reveal what the Council of State knew. She had informed us about this in her letter of 30 October. But the Committee felt it was necessary to hold a hearing on what the Council of State should be informed about, and what information should be transferred to it, and hence to the Stortinge. Incorrect information to the Stortinget is, as you know, a serious parliamentary matter. In particular, it was important for the majority to clarify the current law, adopted by the Stortinget, to prevent compliance with the decision of the Stortinge on zero tolerance for corruption, on the structures – Chinese walls, which they seem to be called – that are highlighted in the Deloitte report to have effectively prevented information from floating between VimpelCom and Telenor, and whether it was the laws that designed watertight information bulkheads between Telenor and Deleite VimpelCom. Although the hearing found that there is a somewhat different view of how the law in force is to be understood, or perhaps it was rather about how it was communicated to the committee, no matter what Professor Bråthen's message went in the direction of what he himself said: ‘You should be aware that, as a management tool, ownership of listed companies is a very sluggish and poor management tool. So the answer is that this is at least difficult." And the difficulty was in following up the zero tolerance for corruption. It would have been very bad news for all of us if it had been the conclusion. In that case, the council had to respond to how the government could go to the Storting and have passed laws that would put an effective stop to preventing corruption. Or in another way: how adopted laws prevent the wish or decision of the majority of population to zero tolerance for corruption. However, the Committee was confirmed that there was another way of looking at this. Lawyer Knudsen, who was also asked to come as an expert on company law, had, as the committee thought, a slightly different view. In his introduction it was formulated like this, and I quote parts of it: ‘From this point of view, it is quite certain that, apart from the general meeting, the ministry as a shareholder does not have a legal requirement to obtain information from Telenor. If you have a legal claim that can be enforced by means of the legal order, you must do so through the general meeting. On the other hand, there is an equally certain starting point that there is no general prohibition in the Share Act that Telenor voluntarily provides the Ministry with relevant information. The Share Act does not have a general rule on professional secrecy, nor does it generally prohibit the sharing of information between the company and the ministry. And as we are going to come back to, I believe that to some extent it must also be expected that the company will provide information that is of importance to the state that owns, especially when this has the background of a consultation in the Stortinget, and for which the Stortinget is interested." Further in the round of questions, he said: ‘It is natural that the parties in this context address issues of particular concern to shareholders, such as issues of corruption with regard to the country of ownership. These are issues that have been flagged by the state through the ownership message that you are particularly concerned about. In my view, the Ministry should then also be able to expect information on possible corruption to be provided by its own initiative, as the case may be.’ The majority of the Committee considered that the lawyer’s views and answers in the hearing were elucidative. The Committee considers it reassuring to know that laws have not been passed which preclude the follow-up to the decision of the Grand Duchy on zero tolerance for corruption. We state that the Council of State could and should have received information about the warning of corruption threats in VimpelCom, which was first held by the Director of Telenor, and which was then known to the head of the group and the board of directors. As you know, the information did not reach the Council of State before the Stortinge hearing in January 2015, nor before the plenary session of the Stortinge, in June 2015, and thus misled the Council of State to fully conclude on the management of Telenor’s reality description. Only in October 2015, after Telenor had a new head of group, the Council of State was informed that Telenor had knowledge that the Council of State could gain at a much earlier time. We believe – and I believe so – that the Council of State, in a exemplary way, passed on the new information without delay to the Committee. One consequence of the new information being revealed was that the director of Telenor went off as a result of a lack of trust from the Council of State. Deloitt underlined in the hearing that what is in their report is that the Statement of Concern, which emerged in 2011, «had come to Telenor's management and to the Board's knowledge at an earlier date. [[...]] the severity of the notification of concern should have been taken into account in the assessment of the information to be provided to the owner.’;» The Committee stresses that the criticism in the Deloittes report against Telenor’s management is much stronger than it has been tried to make as by those it primarily concerns: former group head and former head of telenor’s board. The Committee takes note of the report by Mr Deloitte. The report speaks for itself about what has actually happened in the case. We record that the new management of Telenor, as well as the head of the group, has stated that they believe this was a very serious and difficult matter for Telenor. We are pleased that they add that it has also provided an important lesson, and that they have already started to implement the improvement points set out in the Deloitte report. It is an independent and important point for the Control Committee that matters should not be repeated. And I'm adding: An important message from Stortinget in this case is that zero tolerance for corruption is serious. The Committee's extensive consideration of this matter sends a message to Norwegian industry in general and to state-owned companies in particular: corruption is unacceptable, and the Stortinget will follow up the Council's efforts to maintain zero tolerance. Finally, we are very pleased that the State Council of Malta has underlined the value of Storting's work on the matter. She also underlined the important difference from the previous treatment here in the Stortinget to this, namely that VimpelCom has admitted to having committed corruption. And we find that the State Council of Malta, through its ownership dialogue, did not have the opportunity to discover whether Telenor followed up the reinforced effort against corruption, which is determined by the ownership message and the Stortinge's decision on zero tolerance for corruption. However, what we do not get by, and which is serious enough in view of the trust-based ownership we have in Norway, is that those states councils should have confidence, the Telenor government, did not prove to be worthy of this trust. The current Chairman and the then Group Head of Telenor led the Council of State, the last time the matter was discussed in the Control Committee, by not informing her of information about the concerns they both knew about, before she met in the committee's hearing. Because it was appropriate for the then management to hold the information back, they sent the government council to the Storting with incorrect information. It says a lot about respect for the largest owner. I would also like to say that their behaviour towards Stortinget is under any criticism. From the former group leader and former director of Telenor, special attention was paid to the fact that they would be open and truthful, but at the same time they spoke wrongly and incompletely to the Storing. On the one hand, they considered that the management of the notification of concerns was not important because, according to the lawyer company Hjort, it was not contrary to Norwegian law and, on the other hand, that the information should not be disclosed for the purpose of the investigation. After VimpelCom has now acknowledged corruption and paid a record fine, it places these attitudes in a very special light. In the end, the Council of State brought to Stortinget what the Council of State had knowledge of. In this way, she gave the Stortinget wrong information, because she had confidence that the rules of good ownership and the laws to which a company that Telenor had to relate had been followed. We do not blame the Council of State, but believe that this case has revealed that the State that owns must assess whether trust is sufficient or whether other instruments also need to be assessed. A majority also believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, when the case was brought to the Department in October 2015, could have chosen to examine Telenor rather than leave Telenor to take that decision. Finally, I would like to say that there is an overall committee that underlines the seriousness and destructive nature of corruption and that there is a large majority who believe that the Storting should and must follow up the state's ownership on this point. I am pleased and would like to thank my co-representatives on the Control Committee for all the work that has been done for almost two years to bring this matter to this end.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2525	I can also express my satisfaction that, after two years, we are now bringing this matter forward to the Minutes, where it will probably be attached after a unanimous vote by the Committee. We are well told that today the Stortinget is dealing with the latest report from the Control and Constitutional Committee on Telenor and this matter. The issue is factually limited – or should I perhaps clarify: should be limited in substance – to parliamentary control of the State's stake in Telenor by the Council of State and the Ministry. In addition to the operational decision that we attach this considerable report to the protocol, this will also give rise to a number of points of view. The overall position of the Committee is that the Committee is satisfied with the way in which the State Council and the Ministry manage State shareholdings in Telenor. For my part, I feel the need – not least after hearing the previous posts – to emphasise that we are satisfied that Telenor, our Norwegian Telenor, cannot be charged for corruption actions carried out by VimpelCom in Uzbekistan. Actually, the matter could have been supported by a unanimous committee opinion, something similar to that held in the introductory part. But I think the review we got needs some additional perspectives. I choose to take a slightly general perspective. Few of them could have imagined that the state company Televerket, which managed a telephone queue around 1980, would have done so. 100 000 according to best planning economic principles, would form the basis for today's Telenor, which is one of the most successful technology companies in our global corner. The assumption was that the state reorganised ownership of what became a listed company, with a significant element of private co-investors, with the arm's length principle from politicians to those who are working in the market and engaged in technology development, and with internationalisation, professional governance and professional management. I have sometimes seen that someone is calling for the national strategists of the kind we had when the Hydro adventure was launched at the beginning of the 20th century. I believe that we have national strategists, and that there were just people like Tormod Hermansen and Jon Fredrik Baksaas who, in the technological development of the last two decades, have stood for a national strategy. In our company, then, there were directors who are in other contexts very norms, such as Eivind Reten, Vidar Rygh, Harald Norvik, and I would also mention Svein Aaser, since he was suspended in another context, who has contributed to the great value creation that has also made the state's shareholding much more valuable and underpinned employment and value creation in Norway in a completely different way than if one had continued as a state company completely under ministerial control and control. I do not overlook the fact that it is still the way it is managed, which may also have influenced the view of how to act as owner of a public limited-liability company. Thus, the transition from a state-owned company governed by direct departmental governance, almost in line with a directorate, to a listed company of international dimensions has contributed to an enormous value creation to the joy of the community. This does not mean that the public governance of the company is weakened. But it's going to be different. Political detail management is indicated, but the company is subject to laws and regulations that are the same for all – laws and regulations adopted in this Chamber. This means that the State that also owns is subject to its own law, whether it is the public stock exchange law, the securities trading law or the stock exchange regulation – and of course what became central: criminal provisions against corruption in Norway and not least internationally. That's how it has to be in a state of law. The way in which the State manages its ownership is described in several large-scale communications, and to date there has been broad agreement on the principles – not least because ownership is divided into groups, according to the purposes and purposes of the companies, and what the State wants with its ownership of them. The ownership should be of value to all, but it must be done in a social context that takes care of the environment and people and, of course, respects the international and national legal order. As a listed company, ownership must be exercised through Telenor’s own corporate bodies, i.e. the general meeting and, on a daily basis, the Management Board. This ownership must be exercised in compliance with exchange rules — the fact that, at the same time as all others, the public has requirements for information which may affect their demand for shares — and for joint owners, i.e. other private shareholders in the company. As part of the wide internationalisation, Telenor has had a minority position in VimpelCom, which has not given control of this company. On the other hand, VimpelCom is listed in New York under American law. And it's the U.S. authorities that have demonstrated zero tolerance against corruption, and that, together with the prosecution authorities of other countries, have led the investigation into the corruption case in Uzbekistan, where VimpelCom paid a lot of money for a 4G license to the president's nearest circuit. The corruption case has been closed. VimpelCom has adopted a record fine of 6 billion. Norwegian kroner against releasing evidence and contributing to the clarification of the matter. They have also submitted to a stricter control regime for a three-year period. International police cooperation and widespread criminal prosecution ended with a historically high corporate penalty — well deserved. The criminal prosecution of VimpelCom should delight followers of international economic relations and remind skeptics that the alternative to the global exchange of services, goods and capital is not isolation, not customs walls and not protectionism, but an ever-increasing expansion of the international legal order, with effective law enforcement. That's what we got. So that's the transition from our dearest Telenor to the international arena. It is a reminder to choose your colleagues and partners with care. Telenor had in a transition status as a witness to the matter, but is now out of business. That's what I think Telenor's many employees had deserved to hear from this pulpit. Telenor has appointed members of the board for his minority position in VimpelCom, but Telenor is not accused of anything, nor is he accused of any official authority on the occasion of the case. The company has allowed an examination of its own conduct throughout the course, a report that was completed by the law firm Deloitte. In this respect, there is proper criticism of individuals based on Telenor, but who worked in VimpelCom, and they also reap criticism for having calmed down that the corruption charges in Uzbekistan should have been examined in greater detail, and also that they did not disclose information at an earlier stage. The evaluation of individuals may be called into question, but during the hearing the Norwegian Director of VimpelCom was given a review of a number of measures, including by external agencies in the United States, which responded to the rumors but thus discontinued the investigations. These studies are also claimed to be derived from falsified evidence from adulterous officials in VimpelCom. There is still research on individuals that can be held responsible for what has happened in VimpelCom, but we are definitely out of what you can do about Telenor. I do not think the rapporteur's posts were well enough signposted between individuals based on Telenor and what a whole company is involved in. It has been arduous at all to keep the party relations in order, but it is also part of the work of examining from a parliamentary point of view, of keeping track of both the regulations and the rules in force, and not least of the conditions of the parties. In any case – the remaining uncertainty that is of public interest in the case is whether there are persons associated with Norway who, as a position in VimpelCom, may be among the officials to whom the company will address the responsibility, and that remains to be seen. Under Norwegian law, bribery and corruption may be subject to criminal prosecution for Norwegian citizens even if the action has been carried out abroad. These cases will therefore be concluded by the prosecution authority and by the courts. I again find reason to stress that Telenor does not have any unfinished business with the police authorities, but at a certain stage of the matter in a transition has been required to have a test report. No reproach is directed to Telenor as a company. However, it should be borne in mind that individuals associated with the company were criticised in the Deloitte report for unscrupulous handling of information in the context of a notification of concern about VimpelCom, in other words from an alert that was borrowed from Telenor, which of course came from a different corporate culture. I also think it is worth mentioning on this occasion that some of the remaining criticisms against the former management of Telenor are based on the fact that the alert and the alert's concern are not treated in a discretionary manner. After all, the Committee itself tasted that it is difficult always to make the right decisions, as we ourselves faced a choice where, for the whole world, the identity of the alerter was to be made public, an anonymity which is essential to the alerting institution, and which has been respected by everyone else – what has now been done, as it were, by inconvenient assessments, it has at least been respected since 2011. In the ten minutes that the committee itself had the opportunity to tread faults, it waved, but fell down on the right side. I think it could have been done irretrievably damage to the warning institute if that name had come out without it being authorized. As the international investigation has not provided any basis for criticism of Telenor, neither the owners of the company, either the State or the private parties, can of course be charged. No one in the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been criticised for lack of follow-up, and consequently there is nothing left of any ministerial responsibility or basis for criticising the Council of State of Malta. The Committee has, of course, had to deal with this reality, and it is in the unanimous position. That means that the matter is annexed to the minutes. There is nothing critical to point out against the state's management of Telenor's shareholdings, and we should rather be happy about it – contrary to what might have been a work hypothesis along the way, where it was thought that Telenor knew or used other companies almost as a shellhouse to earn money dishonestly in other corners of the world. I find some of the comments made by the rapporteur on that occasion, after what is now available, to be no longer so crucial. I'll end by saying a little bit about zero tolerance against corruption. It is not an expression used in the ownership message. On the other hand, it is used as one of the many expectations of the enterprises in which the state is involved, in line with the need to be careful about child labour, against the exploitation of the labour force and against the burden on the environment. The zero tolerance shown by the Norwegian State is reflected in the penal code. That's why, in my view, it's a very narrow belt as soon as there's a question of corruption, where we just have to say that this is not politics, it's about the police. It is not the case that these mutual, continuous and parallel support each other, and it is precisely the matter of leaving the case to the prosecution authority. I would also like to point out the paradox that when we talk about the concrete work against corruption, and talk about the active follow-up by the police, the control committee itself has been hurt to get in the way of the Norwegian prosecution authority, which also had international cooperation at a certain time, where people who were just about to be consulted were being asked to explain themselves about the complexities of the case for which they might be suspected. Instead of going on all these unanimous appeals from the case rapporteur, I just want to say that at some point before the national lawyer intervened and asked the committee of inquiry not to pre-empt evidence, this issue was raised by the Right two members of the Committee. It wasn't because we had gone on a special course. This may be related to the fact that we had read the guide book received by the entire Committee upon its accession, document No. 11, where we were reminded not only of the division of labour between state powers, but also of the Storting's own premise when the control committee was created in its present form, that the committee was asked to stay away from matters that were or could be investigated. For anyone who could read inside, there was a clear message. It was a pity that the committee was then unable to delineate its own activity in a way that did not just bring the police work into disrepute. Now that we are talking about the resumption of the matter, it is of course with the delay that the committee itself has created. We can enjoy the final result. We have been cleared up – international criminal law. We've established a company that's been running corruption in Uzbekistan. We have established that Telenor has no share in this. And we have stated that there has not been anything to say about the state's ownership of its shareholding. But I think we've got a useful review, both of what the committee does when it does its work at its best, and of what we can learn for the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2589	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2592	I want to start by saying that we have heard very clearly what Tetzschner has argued for. He really meant that we should not take this matter up again – that is, we should at least not conduct a hearing. The first issue that needs to be clarified is that the Council of State has said exactly the opposite. The councils have said – as I understand her, at least – that it was very useful for the Storting to bring this up, it was very useful that we conducted the hearing. It is therefore of importance for the Storting, when there is such a clear disagreement between the Chief Speaker of the Right in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the Council of State, to clarify what the Right really thinks about this. Is it that this was politically useless and really should not happen – as I understand the representative Tetzschner? We need a clarification of that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2599	That would not be necessary, because I just concluded that the hearing had useful aspects – but it has also had useless aspects. I can elaborate on the useless ones for which the chairman of the committee has a special responsibility. In fact, the Committee has come to doubt whether we are following our own ownership principles, by establishing direct command lines and responsibilities for the management of private legal entities. It was also required to provide documents that, if we had entered into them, could make us subject to registration under the Securities Trading Act §3-2. So I could say it's a mix. But I will not deny that it has been a useful lesson, and it will also be possible for the committee chairman to see from the stenographic print afterwards – that I did not deny the hearing any value.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2606	No, I'll register it. I'm going to come back to the aspect that relates to ownership management in a later article in the debate, it doesn't belong to the line, I think. But I would like to stress that in the Stortinget, in the Committee, but also in public space, there has been a very clear commitment that this debate should not take place, the hearing should not take place, and Tetzschner has become a spokesman for it. The council says something else. Now Tetzschner says that it's been to some degree useful and to some extent learning. That is at least something – at least there is something of a condolences to a large majority in Stortinget. Right should take note that they are alone in their understanding of what was necessary and right in these contexts. So I want to say briefly: I hear what he says about the narrow ways to go when we're going to deal with corruption. But the zero tolerance for corruption, as it is to be understood and as the majority of the Storting has formulated: does the representative believe that this is a completely unnecessary decision by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2615	Firstly, I do not think the chairman of the committee can show where that wording is used. Zero tolerance on the part of the State occurs by decision of the criminal law. That's why I said it was a narrow margin before going from suspicion of corruption, that this was something the police and prosecution had to clarify. Then, on the basis of clear facts, the system responsibility to be addressed to the company where one has a holding, of course, also with respect for the shareholder democracy that exists, and where ultimately it may be a matter of looking critically at the state’s ownership management – whether it has been active enough. I have to say, moreover, that when it comes to assessing the appropriateness of hearings of the Grand Duchy, there is something beyond the Council of State to have special opinions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2622	We don't get that much anymore. I would just like to point out in this reply, already early in the debate, – as I have already said – that Tetzschner, in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is alone in his view of this important area. It is quite obvious that the issue of the fight against corruption is also a political issue. It's not that the main hall is a courtroom. I have no desire to get in the way of the police, nor have I ever done so. We have not conducted any research in any way, but we have been made clear a very difficult situation – namely that ownership management was not followed by Telenor, and that put the Council of State in a very difficult situation. That the right-wing representative, who represents her party, is not unequivocally behind it, is a wonderful political position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2627	For some, it actually makes sense to distinguish political side-by-side commentary activities and ongoing police investigation. At my discretion, the Storting Control Committee will rely on established facts, precisely because we cannot offer a format that is capable of concluding with full legal certainty for the implicated. So there's this point that the representative of Kolberg has, that the Right has remained alone in many of his statements and comments. Firstly, I would like to stress that what we are together about is that there was nothing in the matter that was criticising the ministry, and that we go together to the Stortinget with one operational decision, namely to attach that protocol. Secondly, we have found it necessary to put into our notes what we are not alone about, namely the assumptions of the Storting when the control committee was set up, which are actually the legal motives, and we feel very well that we are also on many points closer to previous ownership than it seems that the representative Kolberg is currently doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2635	I feel the need for a clear answer. The last time we debated this matter in the Chamber, the Council of State expressed the opinion that it was important and proper for the Committee of Inquiry to address this matter. That's what she said in the previous hearing, and she said it in the last hearing. I am looking for a concrete response from the representative Tetzschner: does the representative agree with her own Council when she says in the hearing that she thinks it was important for the Committee of Inquiry to address this matter? It was serious then – it has become more serious now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2642	I agree that allegations of poor state follow-up in itself are justified for having a case. It also gives me the opportunity to elaborate on something I could not instead, for temporal reasons. Establishing a case we are involved in, but it does not mean that we have adopted hearings, because hearings are a major tool if one finds out after feasibility studies that there is more to be asked about, especially to the government. This means that we can reserve ourselves against both the scope of the hearings and not least their content, and so did we in good time before the lawyer came to the same conclusion. It was not the idea of the hearing, but it was the content of the hearing – by inviting people to comment on the facts for which they were actually intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2649	The statement I quoted is also directly linked to the hearing. Does that mean that the representative of Tetzschner disagrees with the Council of State Monica Meland when she says that it was important that we had both the matter and the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2654	I think you have to have a fairly baroque imagination to find a fundamental contradiction between what the council says during a hearing, and what I am now saying, when we clarified what we were against when it was about the content of the hearing. I expect that no one has a different view of this with regard to the possibility for the Riksadvokat and the prosecutors to work on a case. That was not what the Council of State said either. I have also said here that we have had a useful review on some points, which we can learn from, but that does not mean that we are doing well for the content – nor most of the content on which we have spent a disproportionate amount of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2661	I then hear that the representative, Mr Tetzschner, agrees that it was important and proper for the Committee of Inquiry to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2666	Sorry – the matter, yes; there is no problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2671	Christensen has the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2674	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2679	Thank you very much, President! Is it true that there is any other decision of the Stortinget representative Tetzschner that the control committee should examine only with reservations whether the department is following up, or is it just corruption?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2686	I can't fully grasp what was the subtlety of that question. After all, the Supervisory Committee must pursue matters of interest to them. It is clear that in a first phase, where it was also announced that VimpelCom was almost a subsidiary of Telenor, it was part of these rear-end order lines and lines of responsibility that were not fully mapped. Then it's quite natural that the committee takes time to get into a case, to see if you're going to pursue it further. What I protest against, and which probably also the questioner has brought with it, is the scope and not least the implementation, the thematic choice and the personal choice of some of these hearings, which unfortunately have brought the committee further from the goal. And I think we see it quite clearly, as we have a unanimous proposal for a decision this evening: we attach the matter to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2695	The representative Tetzschner says that he disagrees with the scope, implementation and thematic choices and makes rather undefined comments about side-by-side commenting activities. In fact, the right hand position is left alone in the setting. The fact is that the majority had to hear many people and try to go reasonably deep into this in order to establish the facts in the main corruption case involving companies with Norwegian interests. It was incredibly demanding. And it is quite strong to learn that the representative Tetzschner then believes that we should not go into this. My question is: why is this unwillingness to enter into such a demanding case, which has given us so much important knowledge, and which the Council of State has already begun to follow up through the meetings she has with the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2703	It is not uncommon for the Council of State – and I understand that the last meeting of the owner has done so again – to stress the social responsibility of all those in business. And where the state is involved or involved, of course, there should also be high business ethics standards. I think perhaps the representative Lundtägen has not given much attention to the fact that VimpelCom is a company that is outside Norwegian jurisdiction, and that it is the Telenor State's joint owner. So it's not VimpelCom's meeting with the State Council's owner's dialogue. So if you don't see and keep track of party relationships, it can be a very generous affair, and that's perhaps one of the reasons why it's become that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2710	The Committee is very aware of what happened in 2009 when VimpelCom Ltd. was established under the time of the Brustad Council. It was established with headquarters in the Netherlands, tax offices in a tax haven and listed in the United States. It is outside Norwegian jurisdiction – yes, but what is the matter is that the Stortinget has said that one has zero tolerance for corruption. And that applies then to the companies in which the state has holdings. It is Telenor, and then Telenor has a further structure, which also implies VimpelCom. What's special is that this is so demanding. And when the right party doesn't want to spend the necessary time to get into what's demanding, you're left with the impression that one doesn't want to go after what's being viewed as a central point, namely to end corruption, which the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian magnificence have clearly expressed to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2717	I am very much in favour of pursuing a suspicion of corruption – that is also done by the right authority. VimpelCom has been investigated by the police in three countries. So there's a settlement, under strict conditions, that adds half of the 6 billion. to the United States and half to the Netherlands. So corruption has its well-deserved punishment. Still, we have to keep our heads kind of cold, because that's what Telenor we're talking about, which no one has suggested for any participation, either passively or actively. I hear, however, that it is purely linguistic to try to create transitions as if Telenor had almost contributed to this. This is what the Deloitte report has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2722	Telenor is a company that is incredibly central and operates in many countries, where conditions are very demanding. The Committee has been careful to distinguish between police responsibilities and political responsibilities. The size has determined here that there should be zero tolerance for corruption. What has shown itself in this matter is that there has been a system that has operated so little that you have managed to catch it. In this matter, the Committee has gained knowledge of the world of reality. One can add some of the naivety that has been there in the past, and what is so surprising is that not the Right Representative – I would say in contrast to the Council of State – goes into this more thoroughly in order to learn and get better. It has to be central to it being a believer when one says that one really is against corruption, as the representative Tetzschner says many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2729	This is starting to be pretty meaningless. What is required is a kind of sensory statement. It can get Lundtägen by this! We're countering corruption. Just because there's a criminal act, there's not much room to go on until there's a case for the police. So second of all, it's basically a Norwegian company that the Council of State oversees, i.e. indirectly through the shareholder community, and it's such that an investigation has established that Telenor is not loading. Nor will the Council of State be able to load. Of course, there's always a lot to learn from this complex. That's how you learn from things, whether you're directly involved or not. I also think that an important lesson is that the international legal order has made sure that those who committed corruption in Uzbekistan have been vehement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2738	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2741	There's been a lot of talk about this case, there's been a lot of writing about this case, and there's been a lot of media discussions about this matter. Already now in this room today, a lot has been said. I'll try to limit it a little bit, but some comments I have to link to it. Some of the things that may at times be a little worrying is that this is a matter where there is the media that brings knowledge about relationships in companies where the state is a partner, and where there are circumstances that do not seem to be entirely right about financial dispositions and according to the ownership announcement of zero tolerance for corruption. Initially, there is no suspicion of irregularities against Telenor, but against the company VimpelCom, where Telenor is a partner. The Committee considered the communications in the media to be somewhat alarming and wanted to know whether the Minister of Industry was aware of the allegations made in the media and whether the Telenor board and other management were more familiar with the matter. Following initial correspondence between the Council of State and the Committee, it was decided to hold a hearing on the matter. Through the first consultation, the Committee expected the Committee and the Council of State to have the same knowledge as the representatives of Telenor from the Chairman and Group Manager. This had a reason to believe, when the director and the group manager said they would tell everything they knew. The Committee, and probably also the Council of State, was very surprised when, a few months later — once again in the media — it appeared that, according to them, the chairman and group leader had not informed the committee of all they knew during the hearing. The Committee notes that after submitting new and serious information to the Council of State, the Chairperson of the Governing Board of Telenor resigned from office. In view of this, it was subsequently decided to hold another hearing, similar to the first one, and it appeared here that representatives of the management of Telenor were at an earlier stage familiar with the suspicion of corruption in VimpelCom, which was conducted by a Telenor employee, currently hired to VimpelCom. As mentioned earlier, the Storting has zero tolerance for corruption, and it is continued by the Minister of Industry against the companies in which the State is a partner. For Telenor in particular, the same applies to zero tolerance for corruption, which they have expressed repeatedly. On this basis, I cannot understand that Telenor does not have a reporting instruction to ensure that a disturbing report of suspected corruption in companies such as VimpelCom, which comes to the financial director and legal director, reaches the group leader and the board of directors of Telenor. Although this was only a suspicion, it is expected – as corruption is very serious in our society – that even the slightest suspicion of corruption is reported to the senior executives of the different groups and thus passed on to the department of ownership, for example. On this basis, the Progress Party finds itself criticising the management of Telenor, with the head of the group and the board of directors, in part so that the information on corruption-like conditions came to the board late, and in part so that Telenor, as a company, has obviously had too bad procedures to capture such messages as we have seen here. The Committee will strongly criticise the former group leader and executive director of Telenor for deliberately keeping away from important information from both the control committee, the state council and the magnificence, even though they have said in the hearing that they have told everything they knew. This, therefore, appears to be a lie on their part. As far as the Council of State is concerned, the Progress Party will point out that the Council of State has been exemplary in this regard and has done what she could from available information. The Progress Party strongly regrets that the State Council has also been misinformed in this matter by the said Telenor management. The Progress Party finds no reason to criticise the Council of State in this matter, but to commend it for having shown good leadership. Furthermore, the Progress Party has taken note of the fact that the State Council itself expressed itself at the last consultation that the review and consultation of the Committee has been useful. Although such matters have a lot of negative impact in the media, the Progress Party will believe that such a review of a large company in which the state is a partner will have a positive effect for learning purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2764	The issue we are discussing today is primarily what ownership management it has been on the part of the State Council in Telenor's handling of the VimpelCom case in view of the principles of ownership notification. As a minority shareholder in VimpelCom, the company that has accepted a fine for corruption of 795 million. US dollars, it's important to clarify how the Council of State has followed up the requirement of zero tolerance for corruption against Telenor. In the light of the debate that has been taking place on this matter, both inside and outside the Storting, there is reason to look into the Christian People's Party's view on why we believe this is a matter that belongs to the Committee on Control and Constitution and the Stortinget. The Committee has, on two occasions, unanimously decided to open proceedings and to carry out verification hearings. Both the aim has been to examine how the Council of State has followed up the adopted ownership policy of the Grand Duchy in practice. The Committee has been aware that the role of investigative body has been delegated to police and prosecution authorities. Our task has been to assess the ownership management carried out by the Council of State in the context of the information available at all times. The minority of the Committee, the Right-wing Members, has, in the last round, since the decision on the matter had been taken on the Committee and the hearing decided, changed its view and, instead, argued that this matter is not a matter for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The reason seems to be that because the police and the investigation authorities have not found anything for which Telenor can be charged, the matter has nothing to do here in Stortinget. The criticism that the Right has made both in comments and outside the Storting against the committee's handling of this matter seems to be based primarily on the results of a police investigation. I would like to stress that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has never raised the matter at any time in order to find out whether Telenor has committed a criminal offence. Our task, on the other hand, has always been to focus on the Storting decision on the definition of good ownership and how this has been followed up by the Council of State against Telenor. Yes, so far the Right goes, and here they also get the surprising consequence of the Progress Party, that they state that, I quote from the note, ‘since the international investigation has not provided the basis for criticism of Telenor, neither the owners of the company, either the State or the private ones, can be loaded’. But when the majority of the committee, including the Christian People's Party, nevertheless believes that this is a matter, even an important matter, for the committee and for the Stortinget, it is not, of course, that we have not read what police investigation has concluded against Telenor. It's about what the Deloitte report says, it's about what the Chairman of the Board of Directors Wærsted and Group Chief Breek have said, namely that the case could have been handled better and, as Group Chief Breek said, the case was not handled in accordance with Telenor's ethical standards. It is about how corruption barriers are passed on in dialogue with the owner, about how the state council was informed, and how she has followed up with the company. Then I must say that I am very surprised that a party that the Right chooses to stamp the matter as we have to deal with today, as a non-case, all the time that everyone who has worked on this matter, including the chairman and the group leader, has concluded that the matter has been handled in a critical way. The Council of State has also characterised the matter as serious and no longer trusted the former Chairman of the Board of Directors. Then it can be said, and I hear some say, that when the management of Telenor acknowledges critical relationships, there is an internal relationship in Telenor and between Telenor and the company's owners, and that the role of the state is primarily about ownership managed by the Ministry of State and through the established ownership systems. It should therefore be the Committee that is not competent. It is right that ownership should be managed through the Ministry and the structures established, which the Storting has decided to apply to the exercise of State ownership. It is true that this is the essence, but then parliamentary control also comes into the picture. We cannot ignore that in this matter, in our opinion. As the elected body of any government emerges from, it is precisely the task of the Storting to control the exercise of ownership that takes place and that is decided by the Storting. We're going to monitor how the Storting's decision on zero tolerance for corruption is followed up. Then I said earlier and said it again: The Storting controls the government and, in this case, the departmental council responsible. When we are going to prepare a case for the Storting related to this, we have to, in our opinion, go below the surface. Then the information from Telenor is relevant for informing the matter. We need to deal with the information that emerges, which forms the basis for the Committee's assessment of whether the government and the State Council have followed up the Storting's decision. Then the Telenor leadership's recognition is not just a matter for Telenor and the owners. The recognition and the information leading up to recognition are also relevant and important for the Committee and for the Storting. No, neither the Committee nor the Storting shall exercise operational ownership. We don't think we do that either. On the other hand, the Committee is to do its job, namely to determine whether the Council of State has done what it can to ensure that the decision on zero tolerance for corruption of the Storting has been followed up. That's the committee's job, and that's what we've done in this case. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, consultation number two was important with a view to obtaining relevant views on the basis of the critical Deloitte report presented. It was also important to clarify the background to the state council's view of the matter and the understanding of her handling. The Deloitte report provides a basis for a case that has been largely endorsed by everyone. Although relevant aspects of the case, such as: how the Telenor-nominated members of the board of VimpelCom handled the corruption suspicions, have not been informed, nevertheless, on the basis of the Committee's knowledge of the matter, there is every reason to believe that the report points to the very central aspects of what has been happening and why things have happened as they have done. One of the most important aspects of the criticism raised in the Deloitte report was that it was not put up for an internal construction in the Telenor group that could address the warnings of corruption suspicion in a more comprehensive way, while at the same time preserving the requirement of confidentiality. The answers given in the hearing of both invited experts on corporate light and the current director and group manager were that such a requested design as the Deloitte report would have been fully feasible. As Chairman of the Management Board, Værsted concluded during the hearing: ‘And it’s clear that with the focus that it has now been on this matter, I don’t think there are any in Telenor who are in doubt that there are doubts and concerns that are directed towards criminal acts such as corruption, so it should be lifted up in the system.’ It was reassuring to hear. Together with the Deloitte report, it was the different descriptions of what was known in terms of corruption, which was one of the main reasons why the committee found it appropriate to reopen the case again in the autumn of 2015. There can be no doubt that the former group manager and former director did not communicate what they knew at the time of the first consultation in January 2015. Both later claimed that the information on suspicion of corruption was not important because, according to the law firm Hjort, they were not handled in a way that was contrary to Norwegian law. Furthermore, when this information was not provided to the Council of State for the same reason, there is reason to conclude that both the Council of State and the Stortninget were taken away from the light. It is therefore important to stress from the Christian People's Party that we fully support the reaction of the Council of State to the then Governor when she became aware of this information. We experience that she has acted in an exemplary way and has taken the Storting's claim to zero tolerance for corruption in the deepest seriousness. And we'll notice that, and we'll appreciate that. Then this is not the only case where Norwegian state-owned companies have either been involved in suspicion of corruption or have been convicted of corruption. In view of recent years' cases of this nature, there is reason to raise the issue of the degree to which the Norwegian management system works well enough. Is the ownership dialogue close enough between the state that owns and the board that is responsible for the company's operations, and especially when a company chooses to start operations in countries where the corruption factor is particularly high? And is it that the pursuit of profit and profit is easily hindered by the care that one must have in all business activities when an operator ashore where corruption is common? For the Norwegian companies, which have been involved in corruption, the problem does not seem to be a lack of anti-corruption programmes. What's been missing is non-compliance. In some of these cases, it may seem that there has simply been insufficient preparation for the establishment of land-based activities with a high degree of corruption culture. Lack of knowledge of the market, lack of knowledge of the country to be established and the business partners to be dealt with seem, according to Transparency International, to be some of the most important conditions that create the basis for getting involved in a culture of corruption. There is reason to ask to what extent state companies have been adequately prepared for these challenges, and to what extent strategies can be put in place to meet these challenges. In the next round, there is reason to ask questions about the country’s role as owner. The way in which awareness is generated among companies is that not only corruption programmes are necessary in these areas, but strategies for dealing with such situations. An important question to ask the Council of State today is whether she feels secure that she has sufficient and proper tools to ensure that corporate governance takes responsibility for the development of these kinds of strategies in the most serious way. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also want a clear state owner with a clear, forward-looking attitude towards the governments of the companies in terms of demands for zero corruption. We want the state that owns to be clear on what expectations you have of the companies in this field. This does not mean that intelligence activities are to be carried out by the State, but that a clear requirement is made and not least has tools that enable expectations to be met in practice. For the Christian People's Party, as for the majority of the Committee, it was important to carry out these hearings of control that could tell us something about the government's ownership management in the light of the demands of the Storting to zero tolerance for corruption. These have given us answers that make us more sure that Telenor as a company has learned some of the criticisms it has received. Not least, we are behind a state council that has clearly shown that she is taking the Storting's will in this area in the most serious way, and has shown some action in a situation that required a response. I would otherwise like to agree with the rapporteur's thorough and thorough consideration. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee for the way he has been clear and upright in the debate both inside and outside the walls of this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2818	I would first like to thank the anonymous warner – a warning that remains anonymous to the control committee – for his great efforts. It must be a person with considerable experience and great integrity, in my opinion a proper gentleman. The alert sent an e-mail to the department, only 7 January 2015, then 8 January, and then 13 January. The e-mail of 13 January was not sent to the control committee before 16 January, two days after the Committee's hearing on 14 January. Then came two e-mails on the same day, 13 February, at 1 p.m. 00.49 a.m. and 15.12. I want to quote something from the first email that day: ‘I thought the Norwegian Government, especially in the run-up to Parliament’s hearing, would be aware of certain obvious misrepresentations. The intention of the material was to provide a general overview that might be worth a few questions during the hearing, not a detailed overview of an investigation suitable for the judicial system.’ This is an unofficial Norwegian version of the Committee Secretary. Further: ‘For a company claiming zero tolerance for corruption, Telenor’s reaction, at least for me, is confusing. If Telenor was really concerned with eradicating corruption, Telenor would go out and say that the company takes these matters very seriously and asked for my material so that Telenor could do his own research. But Telenor's press release seems to be, in part, reprehensible and accusing, and Telenor's subsequent statements seem to have the same tone. To make it clear, I have not received any enquiries from Telenor, and in the light of their public statements, I have seen no point in communicating directly with them." After this, it is natural to look at Telenor's press release of 16 January 2015. The title was: ‘The information has been sent to the ministry by an anonymous source signed ‘whistleblower’.’ First of all, it says: ‘The information received describes VimpelCom’s entry into Uzbekistan, which is new to Telenor. This applies to alleged payments in addition to those already confirmed and assumed and to descriptions of VimpelCom's entry into other markets.» In addition, it says: ‘The teller will point out that more than one condition requires extra care. The information relating to the period from the early 90s is not easy to relate to, as the note contains a mix of known and unknown information, claims and speculations. In sum, this could be interpreted as an attempt to discredit Telenor in view of the serious situation surrounding VimpelCom’s investments in Uzbekistan.’ It was Telenor's press release, published on 16 January 2015. In the alert's e-mail of 13 February 2015, the first, it goes on to say: ‘To sum up, my silence is the result of 1) a lack of communication with the government or Telenor with questions of clarification or additional material; 2) that I have initially never sought to be part of a public struggle with Telenor and cannot see what further communication with Telenor will lead to; and 3) a telenor’s reaction, which can hardly be said to be consistent with their policy of zero tolerance or best practice in respect of compliance policy. I repeat my offer to deliver more material, even though I prefer a way where the material is not immediately and verbally published by Telenor. While the government's opinion as Telenor's largest shareholder has much more to say than my opinion, I still think it is fair to ask whether Telenor's management is able to investigate itself." In addition, at the end of the same e-mail: ‘Now, did VimpelCom’s board have to approve each and every cost of licences, blocking or acquisitions? Apparently not, but here it's healthy folklore coming in. Does Telenor get its Norwegian licenses behind closed doors from cover companies owned by persons who have no experience with the telecoms sector? Radio frequencies are owned and controlled by governments. Would it have been so difficult for one of Telenor’s representatives sometimes to ask ‘By the way, how did we get those licences?’ Anything but ‘a transparent public bidding round organised by the government’, especially in countries that are synonymous with ambiguity and corruption, could give rise to some follow-up questions.’ In my opinion, these are very, very good questions. The second e-mail from the whistleblower on 13 February came at 1 p.m. 15.12. In an unofficial English translation, it says, last sentence: ‘If the Ministry or the Control Committee would like to have some of my primary documents referred to in my previous communication, I am pleased to provide it to the Committee.’ It is a major weakness for the committee's consideration and attitude that we did not ask for this documentation. It's also my responsibility. This issue was also central to the consultation process. Head of Unit Sigve Breek said, as far as the alerter's efforts are concerned, according to the minutes: ‘A Telenor employee reacted in 2011 to possible critical issues in VimpelCom, and I would like to take the opportunity to give great recognition to the employee who, in line with Telenor’s values and ethical guidelines, actually chose to say so. On the other hand, we must recognise that Telenor has failed to deal with this important message of concern related to VimpelCom's investments in Uzbekistan as we could expect. Therefore, it is important to state: in the future, we will not prevent the obligation of professional secrecy from preventing Telenor from becoming aware of and suspecting corruption or other serious illegal acts.’ I asked the group manager, Sigve Breek, if he would suggest that the alert stood up or not, and then Sigve Breek answered: ‘The answer is actually no. The entire warning system is based on anonymity, really. If you are in a way at risk of having your name folded out, it will destroy some of the whole idea behind the warning system." So there was an answer to my question: 'Do you want him to stand up? Yes or no?’. Furthermore, Sigve Breek said: ‘I’ve had dialogue with the alert, and I also chose to give him credit here, but on the other hand, the whole warning system is built on keeping anonymity. If it scratches, much of the way we can make things work out." The ministry has to decide if we're going to have it like this in the future. The representative, Tetzschner, said that there was irretrievable damage to the warning institute about the identity of the alert. I expect this to be followed up by those who are working closely to safeguard the interests of the alert. Everyone speaks positively about alerts, but alerts are experienced even when they get the right, great personal burden, and that cannot be the way it is in the future. On 17 February 2016, a settlement was concluded between VimpelCom and the US and Dutch authorities for the investigation of VimpelCom’s operations in Uzbekistan and past operations with Takilant Ltd. As part of the deal, VimpelCom will pay $795 million. US dollars in fines and fines to US and Dutch authorities and be subject to independent and external follow-up for at least three years. The Committee has not had access to what is contained in the agreement, which contained a fine which is the largest one ever granted to a company with Norwegian interests, more than 6 billion. Norwegian Krone. Not having access to this agreement is a major weakness for the Committee's consideration and setting up. Nor has the Committee received the documentation back from the Ministry which was first sent to the Committee and then sent back. There is also a great weakness for the Committee to be able to make a separate assessment of the situation. There is a great deal of political consensus in the committee when dealing with this matter, but the right, as stated by the representative Tetzschner, strongly disagrees. On behalf of the Centre Party, I agree with the opinion of the Committee Chairman Kolberg on the Right's position on the matter. The right-hand long comment cannot be understood as different from the unwillingness to clarify the matter, and therefore also the consequence of the case: that lessons are learned from it, so that ownership can be changed by the department, and so that the will of the Storting, zero tolerance for corruption, gets a much more precise and, for the companies, more demanding content. Large words about ethics and zero tolerance can no longer be presented in an equally naive way to the Stortinget after this treatment. I want to go a little further into the company's responsibility to provide the Council with the right information. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, the general rule on the confidentiality of directors is that when one goes out with information to other than the company’s management, it must be a result of the decision of the Board of Directors – i.e. it is the Board of Directors that decides what is said to other than the management of the company. However, the degree of professional secrecy of each member of the board must be balanced against the considerations of substance. It is reasonably clear that the professional secrecy of board members cannot be used as a reason to hide criminal relations. In case of suspicion of corruption that individual members of the board are given access to, in my opinion, a Norwegian member of the board of VimpelCom has a maritime responsibility to report their suspicion to the Executive Director and the Board of Directors of Telenor, and they are then responsible for notifying this to the State as a partner in Telenor. For information only: Members of the Board of Directors of Telenor of VimpelCom Ltd. was in 2011 Jon Fredrik Baksaas, Kjell Morten Johnsen and Ole Bjørn Sylstad. Following my assessment of the obligation of professional secrecy, Telenor’s then CEO, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, who was a member of the board of directors of VimpelCom in 2009, 2010, in 2012, in 2012 and in 2013, i.e. for five years, and former director of Telenor, should have raised with the Council of State suspicions of corruption in the many meetings that have been held over the years. If these two leaders of Telenor did not take it up, they had to be sure that other people informed the State Council of the suspicions. Such an approach is absolutely necessary when you know the background for the establishment of VimpelCom. The company was established over time with the Norwegian and Russian Heads of State Putin and Bondevik as Bisitters. We all remember very well the picture from the government's representative residence on November 12, 2002, where Putin and Bondevik stood behind, and the two group leaders signed, and one of them was Baksaas. It was openly recognised that the different business cultures created major problems in the management of the company, and this should clearly indicate that the state council representing the Norwegian government had a special responsibility to monitor the development of the company. Special vigilance had to be established to prevent corruption, which was a major problem for all recognized countries to obtain government-approved licences in countries such as the United Kingdom. Uzbekistan – a country with a very bad reputation in this area. VG had a notice on 7 October 2009 on the very establishment of VimpelCom Ltd., which found that it was a company that had its head office in the Netherlands, that the parent company was to be registered on the tax haven of Bermuda, that the scheme was chosen for legal and tax reasons, according to Telenor, and that it was to be quoted in the United States. The then State Council Brustad said in her press release about the matter that she made a reservation that she had not had the opportunity to go into all the business aspects of the agreement. It was then for me a strong statement. In retrospect, we see that one has to go into matters more thoroughly, and here the councils have a considerable responsibility. Telenor ordered the investigation report from Deloitte. Telenor thus also defined the mandate for this investigation. In my opinion, it should be the department that ordered the review report. As part of the Ministry's mandate, the review should also have included the administration and the board of directors in Telenor's position on the matter over time. If the Ministry had not received notice of this at an extraordinary general meeting in Telenor, they would have had to have requested a share law review under the Share Act, which they have occasion to do. In my opinion, there is a great weakness in the Committee's consideration of the matter that we have not received such an investigation, which would also inform the matter at the level of responsibility in addition to VimpelCom. A central concept from the Stortinget towards the government in the management of state-owned companies is the concept of ‘zero tolerance for corruption’. What is there is the matter is that, as far as I have found, there is only one place it is mentioned in a committee note, and it is in the committee note to the Inst. S. No 163 for 2006–2007, which was issued on 29 March 2007 in connection with the notification of St. Announcement. No 13 for 2006-2007. It's called on s. 18: ‘The Committee expects that all companies with State ownership will practice zero tolerance against corruption and have good systems in place to control it.’ There are other wordings that have been followed up in the Council's letter of reply to the Committee of our letter of 17 February 2015. The Committee asked: ‘The Committee would like information on the warning systems requested by the Ministry of State and jointly owned companies. Including an assessment of Telenor’s handling of this special alert matter.’» In the letters of the Council of State, it states: «As shown in the ownership message, Notify. St. 27, which was dealt with by the Stortinget on 5 February, expects the government to have good warning systems in its own business. [[2013-2014]] The companies themselves are responsible for this. The management of these companies has been the subject of the ownership dialogue with the companies, inter alia, during the annual meetings on the social responsibility of the companies. In addition, the Ministry and companies, such as employers, are subject to the rules on alerts laid down in the Working Environment Act.» So the Ministry has considered it this way, according to Storting's comments, that it is the companies that are responsible. The major weakness of the concept of ‘zero tolerance for corruption’ is that the content is not defined. It is far from satisfactory only to terpe upon this heading without giving it any more details as to how a company's management should behave in order to avoid corruption. In my opinion, the government has to give the concept content and get to the Storting with it in an appropriate way, so that the level of awareness of what needs to be done to prevent corruption is raised considerably. In my opinion, the best proof of zero tolerance must be whether companies can demonstrate a sound zero tolerance practice. It has done so if, when faced with a concrete and difficult choice, it has made a balance between interesting business opportunities with good performance on the one hand, and a high risk of corruption if the business project is carried out, so-called compliance dilemma on the other hand. The company must document, if there is any outcome, that the business here came out of the possibility of high risk of corruption. This will be a good indisium on compliance with its own control regime. In my opinion, this kind of decision must be taken by top management, which will provide good evidence that management is at the forefront of anti-corruption work. The further prerequisite for the control system is that management instructs downwards in the company on the risk of corruption, management procedures, identification of specific risk elements, their concrete follow-up and regular tightening and refresher of procedures. In my opinion, three points need to be satisfied in order to be able to talk about zero tolerance for corruption: the company must 1) document previous management of corruption barriers; 2) document how they have achieved their business objectives without corruption in countries known for extensive corruption; and 3) document a zero tolerance training system and how it has been implemented in its own top management and governance – i.e. maritime. I would like to point out that in any such case, where there have been maladministration, the best lesson for the organisation is that those who have had overall responsibility step back. It's diplomatically said, step back. In my opinion, it is not to take responsibility when a person is sitting in his or her position while he or she says that the situation is now corrected for the future. Simple organisational psychology shows that resignation from the position works best throughout the organisation. In my opinion, I would like to point out that the size of the corporate fine is approx. 6 B.C.E. kr, and that the content of the Deloitte report is so alarming and the risk of new corruption surprises is so great that the Ministry has to take the initiative to re-examine — this is in order to get a complete review of all Telenor’s activities abroad, especially in Eastern Europe, Thailand, India and Myanmar, in order to monitor the practice of zero tolerance for corruption. The National Audit Office – and I would like to stress this – must be given the professional responsibility for this work, and that it is carried out in a thorough manner on the basis of the decisions and attitudes of the Norwegian Storing against corruption. I will also give tribute to the President-in-Office for thorough work, and for having managed to deal with this matter through the storm in which it has stood. It serves the chairman of the committee to the credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e2942	I have both rice and praise to join the committee leader and the case rapporteur in this matter. First to the rose: there is thorough work that has been put into this, not least the post that was kept from here, and the good remarks about corruption and its consequences. Basically, I'm going to end up with the whole article and I think it's really been a very rough way of working at the hearings and before the hearings, where you've also got a liberal framework for asking completed questions, even if you've gone over your time. That has been good on the part of the committee chairman. I'll come back to the rice a little later in my post. I would also like to pay some tribute to the Progress Party, which in both the defence case and in this case has been able to withdraw from the Right or Right representatives of the Committee. That's good. It is good that you can see the matter in isolation, from your own party perspective and perspective, without being tied up to another government party. We notice that, both in the defence case and in this case, and that is something worth commending. It is today almost exactly a year ago when the Storting dealt with this matter – for the first time. It is basically quite unique in Storting's history that the Control and Constitutional Committee reopens a control case based on new information. Yes, it was not only on the basis of new information, but on the basis of key actors – central actors – that did not speak the truth, either to the Supervisory Board or to the State Council responsible. That is the background for reopening the case. It is in this context, with this as a backstop, completely incomprehensible to me that there are a number of key social actors and representatives of Norwegian business who believe that the control committee is not tidy in its relationship between law and politics, and that we, for example, are. does not understand the content of the obligation of professional secrecy, or that a hearing of control shall be exclusively a relationship between the responsible Council of State and the Stortinget – a view which is also widely shared by the representatives of the Right in this matter, which I will return to. It's been alarming. But had we followed this logic, had very little of what has been revealed today, been revealed. If we had followed this logic, Svein Aaser had still been director of Telenor. Because it was just in public that Aaser's explanation did not hold water. It was in public that Aaser finally had to crawl to the cross and admit to the Minister of Industry that he had information that had not been brought forward before. If we go back to the first hearing and the treatment we had then, the majority's criticism was that both current and former state councils were proud of the information provided by Svein Aaser and Jon Fredrik Baksaas to their principal and majority shareholder, the Norwegian state. The logic is, according to the critics, that it is entirely right to withhold information from the Council of State under a misunderstanding of the obligation of professional secrecy, and that Jon Fredrik Baksaas, who was one of Telenor's appointed directors in VimpelCom, should have no opportunity to act as group leader in Telenor on the basis of the information he acquires through his board of directors in VimpelCom. The obligation of professional secrecy must therefore be understood to mean that the knowledge acquired by a group manager through the work of the board of directors of other or underlying companies in which he also holds holdings cannot, in any case, be used in the activities in which he is the group manager, because they are subject to professional secrecy. It is a very interesting understanding of the law on which this assessment may be based. This would mean that if Baksaas actually knew about corruption in VimpelCom as early as 2011, he would have been cut off from acting on it if the board of VimpelCom did not decide. Very much of what I said in the debate on the same matter the first time, stands today. I just thought briefly to quote something of it: ‘I and Left wholeheartedly support the view that the majority are prejudiced in the position we are now dealing with, when we claim that the three board members of VimpelCom who are set up by Telenor are responsible for following the same demands to work against corruption as everyone else. They had an independent responsibility to ask, ask and do everything possible to clarify transactions for which the administration is responsible, but in which critical questions can be asked. We therefore do not understand that members of the board who are nominees and derived from Telenor, who in other contexts are a company that has been praised for its work against corruption, are unable to obtain clarity in relation to which there is every reason to ask critical questions. It should be easy to access the information necessary to assess the matter correctly. That VimpelCom's administrative leader until a short time ago was also a Norwegian former Telenor employee, should not make this more complicated, to say the same." The same administrative director is, as we all know now, in the investigation and for the purposes of ecocrim, but he did participate in the second hearing of the control committee. To make it clear: Of course, I do not take a position in any way on any guilt issues in this case. The matter has been on the board for almost two years, extensive and large. We're dealing with one of the biggest international issues of corruption. VimpelCom, partly owned by Telenor and its subsidiary Unitel, has admitted corruption of more than 114 million. dollar, about 1 billion. kr, in payments to Uzbekistan, a case dating back to the period 2006-2012, which is thus a settlement of tele licences abroad. The question has been, and is, what is Telenor's knowledge of this, and then the knowledge of the Norwegian state, because we, the Norwegian people, through the state are majority shareholders in Telenor. Those who are set to lead Telenor are not just the shareholders, but indirectly and something popular can also be said to be the chief trustee of the Norwegian people. If they know about corruption and leave something to do with it, it means a gross breach of trust. If the management of Telenor e.g. knew about corruption and uninformed the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is the largest shareholder, who has also explicitly set zero tolerance for corruption, would also violate adopted rules of the game. For me, this is what is at the heart of the matter. For me and the Left, it is absolutely right that the control committee has tried to reveal it. That's our job. I heard the representative Tetzschner talk about zero tolerance for corruption, that the only way to do it is to leave this to the investigating authorities. I think one forgets that the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself has expressed zero tolerance for corruption, and it is also up to the state to follow exactly the same rules that it has adopted for this. Chief Baksaas of Telenor sat himself on the VimpelCom board for almost four years, a rather impossible double role he chose to place himself in. It is precisely in that period that there was a very serious notice, as we have now heard, and that alert has received good and correct praise. So there was an alert in that period. For a period of some months Baksaas was out of that board. I'll get to that. But this warning is thus the closest of Baksaas to the group management, and we know that. Both Baksaas Financial Director and Legal Director are demonstrably oriented. The same is true of the then director Svein Aaser of Telenor, at some later point. This is stated in the independent review report from Deloitte. In addition, the alert sends an e-mail to all three of the then-appointed members of Telenor's board of directors in VimpelCom – except Baksaas, for he left the board in June 2011 to step back in December 2011. Several other people also know about this warning in the Telenor system. The group management knows, financial director knows, legal director knows, Telenor's three appointed directors know, we know that Jo Lunder knows, and other people know as well. What Baksaas claims is that despite the fact that his closest employees for several years have known about the warning – several people – he never got the least of it. That's what Baksaas wants us to believe: that everyone around him of the m who is responsible for this knew – financial director, legal director, the board members appointed by Telenor in VimpelCom, the alert and others, and eventually the chairman – but that he hasn't heard of it. That's what Baksaas wants us to believe. Probably more, but also I, have been contacted by people who have been close to the group leadership in Telenor during the period in question, and they say directly that this is not a believer. The contact and interaction between Baksaas and the then legal director, Pál Wien Espen, was so close and confidential – and must have been so close and confidential – that there is no real likelihood that Vienna Espen did not continue to provide such vitally important information to Baksaas. As far as I am concerned, Baksaas’ explanation is not a believer. It is a pity that Vienna Espen did not come to the hearing. There had been some questions to him that he could answer and clarify. But I also had some questions in the hearing of the current group manager about this: whether this could happen under his leadership, that is, that his legal director knew of such serious corruption announcement – so serious that it went between the financial director and the legal director, and that this alert was requested to send it in writing to the board members, etc. It was so serious. So anyway, the group manager shouldn't know about this. The current group leader said it's unmistakable, it can't happen, at least under him. Then he failed to go further into why or how it could not happen during the previous one. Of course, it's up to the individual to make an opinion about the credibility of this. But as I said, I noticed that the current group leader Sigve broke down during the hearing definitely forcibly that this could happen under his leadership. He said it was completely unimaginable. It is reassuring, then, that the current group leader clearly says that this could not happen under his leadership, what allegedly happened under the previous management: that the former group manager did not know anything, did not hear anything – even if people knew all of this from 2011. The credibility of Baksaas is not what is at the forefront here, but nevertheless: this is much affected in the report to Deloitte, and that is one of the reasons why the Minister of Industry has not known. The credibility of Baksaas is also not strengthened by the fact that he claimed in the first hearing that he would inform the Storting about everything he knew. Afterwards he apologized that he did not quite mean it like that. I'll quote from the hearing – and this is my question: «Baksaas, you started in January by saying that you had a duty of professional secrecy. Let me quote what you said to us when you were here in January. It's then stenographically written down, and I'm quoting parts of it. It is much longer, but I will conclude: ‘I consider it important that the Storting get adequate and correct information, so I will, on questions today, put the obligation of professional secrecy aside and answer with the knowledge I have in this matter.’» And then the quote continues from the hearing -- I say to Baksaas: ‘You built up under our confidence that you would give us all the information, before you now recognize yourself, and have also acknowledged in the media, that you did not tell us the full truth. Do you have any comments on that?’ Jon Fredrik Baksaas answers: «It was unfortunate that I was not exactly enough to mention the obligation of professional secrecy. We had another discussion in advance of the hearing, namely on the obligation of professional secrecy with regard to the company, not with regard to the ongoing investigation. I should have been more precise. [[...]] It is not a small problem that the former group leader and former director of Telenor, by paying special attention to the fact that they would be open and truthful, led the Storing behind the light. Both stated that they did not believe that the management of the concerns notifications was an important information, because, according to the lawyer company Hjort, it was not contrary to Norwegian law and that the information should not be disclosed for the purpose of the investigation. I just notice that the new group leader fortunately changed his mind on the matter and brought information to the Council of State of Malta, on which Malta took the necessary consequences and set aside Aaser as chairman. There is little honour left for the rest of the Aaser that he has alleged in retrospect that the State Council of Malta showed “lack of impulse control” and that he has tried to produce it so that he went off so as to say of his own will and was not forced to go off because of lack of trust. Because Baksaas and Aaser failed to inform – and here is the core of the matter – both past and present state councils about the facts, there is no criticism of the responsible state councils today, because they did not know and – even if they asked – were not told. Through the ownership dialogue, they had no opportunity to discover that, through ownership in VimpelCom, Telenor did not follow up on the reinforced efforts against corruption determined by the ownership message and the Stortinge decision on zero tolerance for corruption. I said in the beginning that I would also bring some rice to the case rapporteur and committee leader. This concerns some documents that we had in the committee meeting. When the hearing was postponed, they were sent back to the department, pending that we might have a hearing. It was a very clear view, at least the representatives of the minority and the chairmen of the committee, that these documents were to be returned. I think that, too, is somewhat so formulated in that letter that we assume that the documents will come back when the hearing will begin. We believed that the representatives of the Workers' Party would stand by. So there's been some things in the media, some confirmed things, and I asked some questions about this to the representative Guess when he was in the hearing, about his communication with Martin Kolberg at this point, and some immediate clarity we didn't get into it. But it is the case that the case-rapporteur did turn that question around, where there was a clear agreement between us that these documents should be returned – and they should not be returned anyway. Not enough, we don't have minority rights to pick up these documents either. So it's a careful rice. That was probably not the plan of the rapporteur, but that was the way it turned out anyway. I believe that it was not the plan when the documents were sent back. But that's how it turned out, and I don't think it was tidy. And if they didn't come back, some of us would probably have taken the trouble to read them. So what other former state councils may have known, it's a little bit difficult to really do well for. This has also been done by the former state councils themselves – if they have had this dialogue with the committee chairman and the case rapporteur not to let the members of the committee read the documents that go back to Trond Giske's own time. So it's with a big dose wondering I follow the right positions in this case. The party, by two representatives in the committee, clearly believes that this is not a matter for the Storting – neither was it; it was not the defence case, it was a 'navel pilling', and this case is not a matter for the Storting. Now I'm not sure, because the representative Tetzschner has said a lot of different things about this. It says something in the setting, something has been in the hearing, something has been in the hearing, something in the media, and something has been here. So I'm a little uncertain about whether they're really for or against the hearing -- now I've heard both, so now I'm very uncertain. But at least they voted to open up the case and reopen the case, and the right clearly demonstrated this during the hearing as well, that they had some problems on some points. This was demonstrated by the fact that during the hearing on behalf of the party the representative Skutle refused to ask questions to Jo Lunder. His reason for this was: ‘Then I will refrain from respecting the functional distribution between state powers from further questions in this round.’ This was because Ecokrim at the current point had a look at Lunder. This is the right-hand option for this. Had it been such that Jo Lunder had come to the hearing of control almost against his will, perhaps the Right had had a point. And had it been like that there was a principle right across the board standing for, maybe the Right had a point. But for us who have been in this period, it was no later than last November that the same representative from the Right, Skutle, on behalf of the Right, asked a number of questions, specifically a whole of 18 questions, to a participant in the hearing on out-of-court defence material, who was also under investigation and under the charge of Ecocrim for just corruption – and after Skutle made the same clarification of the functional distribution between the state powers. It's strange, it's at least very little consistent, so it's hard to fully understand these positions that the Right does. As I was talking about: I'm a little unsure, and it's hard to know – now Tetzschner got so many lines that I refused, because there was a little too much here – whether they were for the hearing or against the hearing. What is certainly problematic is the direct quotations from the Council of State, which in the hearing have clearly stated on questions from the chairman of the committee on the value of the Stortinge's work on the matter, and whether there should have been a hearing, etc.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘No, by no means. The last time we were in the hearing, I stated that I felt it was important that the control committee addressed this matter. It was serious then, it has become even more serious now, because we know that VimpelCom has admitted to having committed corruption." I have in no way noticed at any time that the Council of State or the Government is against this hearing and believe that it is deaf, what we are doing here. In this way, it is good if the right-wing representative Tetzschner has changed his view and is now of the opinion that the hearing was important. Now I'm going in for landing. Unfortunately, we have a number of examples lately of state-owned or partly state-owned companies having a very cumbersome way of dealing with the Greatness's clear zero tolerance against corruption. The way in which the Right is meant to combat this unculture is at best unclear. It's a little bad that I have to say 'Right', it's basically two of the representatives in the committee, but it's infecting the rest of the Right, because there are comments from the Right that are voted on, etc. But it is clearly the position of these representatives, at least when you are in government, that this is something the responsible Council of State at any time is the only one who can and should handle and follow up – that this does not belong to hearings or the Storing. This case has clearly shown that it is not possible or sufficient, and that is also one of the reasons why the Left, Christian People's Party, the Green Party and SV have announced an initiative for a larger consultation and case on corruption and the review of state ownership for the harvest. I've noticed that the committee leader is positive about this, so I hope we don't have to push through minority rights. But I'm not particularly optimistic about Right-wing support for implementing this. But consultation will be, and it is important that we, as responsible politicians, say clearly that we want to live this unculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3043	Since the representative pointed to the usefulness of quotations, the President will draw attention to Section 55 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which states: ‘ Citations should only be used to a limited extent.’ I just mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3051	To the extent that it can please the President, I promise not to quote anyone. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his work on the matter and the Committee on Cooperation on the matter, which has been for a long time. SV's views are reflected in the comments we're behind in the committee position, and I think you might say that the posts that have been up to now, that's good coverage, and so on, for many of the assessments that we're making about the matter. So I'll confine myself to a few reflections around it. The first is that we can sum up in the end, I believe, that the Department and the Council of State have handled the matter in a good way, that there is a unanimous committee that ends up about it, and that we have not found any critical relationship with the Department's handling of the case, neither missing information to the Stortinget nor when it relates to the follow-up to the laws and regulations behind the Stortinget. But I think it's important to understand that it's not that the control committee can only deal with matters where one knows in advance that it's very likely that a government council has to go – firstly because one cannot know in advance whether it's very likely that a government council has to go, and secondly because it's actually not the job of the control committee, but going through some specific relationship with the exercise of government power. For this reason, when it comes to matters raised by the Control Committee, for the first time, the majority of things we are looking at have gone away without it being a matter, but also the majority of things will end up with different kinds of comments, possibly decisions, without making very critical things like a mistrust proposal. I say it that way because sometimes in the public eye it can look like things that don't end up with complete crisis and war types, actually never should have been in the control committee. In contrast, I see it: it is the work of the Control Committee on a matter that will reveal it, and fortunately Norway is a country where it turns out in most cases that it is very sensible to say, among other things. on the follow-up of the departments. This is such a case. The second is that this matter, both in the Committee and now in the Chamber and perhaps most in public, was as much a debate on the matter as it should have been a sign – in which case, how, who should have met to hear, different degrees of mandate around it, i.e. as much a form discussion about it as a discussion about the issues themselves. I am of the opinion that, in the long term, the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee is problematic. The best thing I can say about it is that we all have a common responsibility that where there is a need to discuss formal things, mandates, etc., it must be done, but there must be an arena for it, and then, to the best of our ability, we have to make it clear that there are discussions about content. My perception is that this matter has suffered somewhat from it. The third, and the last, reflection I want to do is that we have had a number of cases in recent years where companies in which the state has different forms of ownership interests, and are partners, have been involved in situations where there is a suspicion of corruption or other unfortunate conditions in countries with weak governance. The things are very different, but it is, as among other things. The representative, Tetzschner, expressed two gradual changes in society over the last ten years. One is that formerly wholly owned state-owned companies are now limited companies in which the state is a shareholder, and the other is that there are many of those companies completely, or almost completely, previously had their ownership interests in Norway, then other countries have been more important to them, and partly countries with weak governance and significant corruption challenges. One lesson I draw from it is that it may be that more than political depth in the individual case, we need to look forward to some questions about the political framework. I have no doubt that the principle that it is governed by the company that is responsible for the individual decisions will be maintained. But it's clear that the difference between the very high level and the very strong use of language when it comes to zero tolerance for corruption, and the degree of clarity, what it means – as the Storting has – there I would say that there's a significant difference. It is not certain that the follow-up to legislation under that vision is good enough. I also think there is reason to ask questions about how the various departments follow up, if they are equipped with sufficient tools – if there is enough attention to that part of the company. And of course, it could be a discussion of the practice, the challenges that individual companies face. I have learned through those cases that large Norwegian companies have a lot of attention on these issues, but also that they come up in extremely complex situations where it is very difficult for them to make decisions, for example. the amount of time in which they should report to their own department is difficult to estimate. I think that would be an important political follow-up to this. Otherwise, I will round off my post again to refer to our comments and what appears there on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3074	Corruption poses a threat to the rule of law, democracy, human rights and social justice. In addition, corruption prevents economic development and it distorts competition. Therefore, corruption is illegal, and so the state that owns has clear expectations of the company's work and action against corruption, which we follow up. As I stated in the verification hearing in the case on 27 May, it is important to point out that there are no telenors or employees in Telenor who are charged with corruption. However, it is serious that corruption is revealed in VimpelCom, which is a company in which Telenor has had a significant ownership exposure over time. The matter has had a major impact on Telenor, and it has raised fundamental questions about the role of the Department and the framework of state ownership policy. The expectations associated with the company's efforts to prevent corruption in its operations are an important part of government ownership policy. The expectations in this area were reinforced in the ownership communication presented in June 2014 and adopted by the Stortinget last year. So it's that no one can guarantee that corruption or any other form of crime will never happen, but we have to do what we can to prevent it. My responsibility in this matter has been to manage the state's ownership of Telenor within the framework set by the Stortinget for state ownership policy. There are frameworks on which there has been cross-political agreement and which have been stuck for a long time. I have explained for several rounds the ministry's handling of this matter. As I have stated earlier, I believe that the department has followed up the matter in a thorough manner and with the seriousness of the matter. In my time, the VimpelCom case and corruption have been the subject of the ownership dialogue with Telenor in over 30 meetings, as well as written presentations. I am also pleased that a majority of the committee does not appear to object to the ministry's handling. This matter was fundamentally changed when I received new and significant information about the role of Telenor in October 2015. I then received information that concerns related to VimpelCom and corruption had been addressed at a high level in Telenor's own organisation back in 2011. This is information that had been made known to the Chairperson at an earlier date, and before the hearing in January 2015 and the deliberation in June of the same year. It is my opinion that Telenor's then director should have communicated to the department that he put more and more material information in the matter at an earlier time. This was also the background that I could no longer trust him as the director of Telenor. I also record that Deloitte's review provides support for the factual basis related to the assessments I then made. This has been a major issue that has raised many issues of a different nature, including those related to state ownership policy. I also record that the matter has started a fundamental debate and disagreement in the committee's position on this matter. This is linked to the actual implications of the established framework for State ownership, both for the State as owner and also for the role of the Control and Constitutional Committee. This is an important debate, and there is a discussion that lies at Stortinget to take. As the Council of State, of course, it is not up to me to enter into such a debate. However, let me say in general: the fact that there has been a cross-political agreement over time on the basic framework of state ownership, and that these have been clearly communicated and have been fixed over time, has been crucial for the success of Norwegian state ownership. It has contributed to the good development of companies and employees, it has also contributed to the good value creation of owners, including for the State, and it has contributed to the trust in the Norwegian capital market. Let me also briefly comment on another aspect of the position, and it is linked to the fact that a majority of the Committee points out that this case has revealed that the State that owns the need to assess whether trust is an adequate instrument in the follow-up to state ownership or whether other instruments need to be assessed. Trust is by no means sufficient. The State exercises its ownership by, inter alia, to take a formal position on matters at the general meeting and to assess the follow-up to the country's expectations based on the company's reporting to the market. But trust is also absolutely necessary. From my perspective as the Council of State and as responsible for the exercise of a significant part of state ownership, I would like to stress that we rely on a fundamental trust relationship between a large owner and a company's board of directors to perform both the role of owner and as the board of directors in a good way. We also rely on such a trust-based relationship to have a good ownership dialogue. That's the way it is, and that's the way it has to be. That is also why there are serious consequences when this trust is lost, as happened in this case. Finally, let me show that this has been a comprehensive and demanding matter, which has also had significant consequences for Telenor. It is important that the company learns from this difficult case. Let me also repeat what I said in the verification hearing: it is important that we all now contribute to the creation of peace around the company, primarily in the interests of the employees, but also so that the company's board of directors and management can focus in the future on re-establishing trust in the company and taking action to ensure that the company will not deal with these kinds of issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3106	A line has been requested, and the President will allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3109	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his good cooperation in this matter. In her article she talked about trust, but trust depends on the trust of the person who enjoys freedom under it. One of the reasons why corruption is so popular is that it's very profitable. My question is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that there is a cultural change or culture in Norwegian companies, so that following the Storting decision on zero tolerance for corruption is more important than making money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3116	Thank you back for your cooperation with the Committee. I like the question, because in one of the posts that were held here today, it might seem like it's almost an unculture in the companies. I just have to refute that. That's not my impression. We have to remember that the state is the owner of the largest Norwegian companies. My impression is that the boards take this seriously, work hard to have rules, have systems and exercise Storting's will and expectations through the ownership message. But it's an area that's developing, and that's why it was interesting when I met the leaders of 30 of the companies we're responsible for earlier this week. I also met these directors two and a half years ago, and only in two and a half years had the rhetoric, the professionalism in this field increased considerably. But my clear impression is that this is working with the boards. I think everyone in the government understands that you have to have more than a theoretical relationship to it. This requires a high level of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3123	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3126	This has been an interesting matter to follow, all the way, and it has been quite thoroughly illuminated. I think it's rare to find such a clear release from the Council of State, and I've never really been in doubt that you'd get there. I have followed the way she has handled the matter all the way, and there is no doubt that she has shown herself worthy of both the committee's and the Storting's trust. This is, as the rapporteur said, a very serious matter. Corruption is a cancer in every economy, both internationally and in each country, so that Norway should contribute to the fight against corruption is a quite obvious expectation of state companies. I myself was the case rapporteur for the ownership message referred to, so I wanted to get involved in the debate. I believe that the principles of ownership we have are very important. That is when I want to raise a small index finger against the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, because I have never doubted that this was going to be a matter for the Stortinge, also in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It's obvious when a company has had to adopt a fine of the size that VimpelCom has, that it's going to have a follow-up. However, the Committee itself states in its opinion that it is necessary to examine the extent to which the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has followed up the ownership notification, and then refers to the ownership notification that came in 2013–2014. It was hardly adopted in Stortinget when this case exploded. The case is clear back to 2007, so it is the ownership messages that are ahead in time, which are at least equally relevant. Corruption has tightened up, and there has been a significant development in the expectations we have of the companies. In the Business Committee, we focus a lot on this. We have regular reviews with the Council of State. Now there are many companies that have unfortunately come into situations where corruption charges have been brought against them, so there is considerable and strong attention to how we should both solve this and get the handling tightened up. But I also note that the Council of State has said that the Committee's commitment has been important and correct. What else could a state council say? She probably believes it too, but the council is subject to the Storting, and when the Storting asks, you get answers that you call in the woods. Opening things up seems natural to me – it had become a matter of course – but I have to say that you are running into trouble with the police investigation. That's what the committee says in its letter: that they're not investigating. The fact that consultations were conducted, and that the whole matter has run at the same time that the Council of State has had its full rent cleaning up what has happened, is what has amazed me through the treatment. The ownership principles and ownership communication are very central in this, and I think the committee in its position is turning a little bit on the challenge. It is the Storting that adopts the ownership message. There we clearly express our expectations about how companies should behave. We give that to joint owners -- we're not sole owners of these companies -- we give it to employees, we give it to lenders and everyone that has something to do with the companies. That's why the ownership message becomes very central. The State Council has received the full agreement of the Control and Constitutional Committee that the ownership notification has been followed up. But further, we control the companies by having general meetings, and choosing directors who are fully responsible – who are personally responsible, they are not representatives of individuals into the board, they are personally responsible for developing the companies as best they can. Trust has been a central concept here. That's what became so obvious that that trust was broken. Until Abid Q. Raja says that the public brought the matter up: I am absolutely sure that the Council of State through ownership dialogue and dialogue with Telenor had been presented that there was information withheld, so that the matter had exactly the same consequence. Clearly, when you gain trust, you also have responsibility, and that must be the result when trust is broken. That's what was expressed then. It is regrettable that state ownership has arisen in this kind of situation. I think we should also pay for sending a thank you to the international actors. In particular, the Americans have driven through this case, and they have really put VimpelCom on the international map and made the company accept such a fine. It shows that there is a whole international system that is starting to work in anti-corruption. It is very important if we are to overcome this. Because, as the rapporteur initially said, the problem is not solved by Norwegian companies refusing to invest in other countries, even in countries where we may be subject to corruption, but we need to know that we have systems and follow-up and companies that take seriously that we do not want to be involved in these kinds of issues. And I really have great confidence – in the whole of Norwegian business – that you don't want to. Looking at the consequences for both Telenor and the other companies that have ended up in these kinds of cases, I think the deterrent effect is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3150	It is interesting to hear Gundersen's reflections on the work of the Control Committee, but I took a reply because the representative Gundersen comments on the Minister of Industry's opinion on whether we should address this matter and discuss this matter. Commenting on the fact that Malta has said that this matter is important and correct, Gundersen says, "What else should she say?" Does the representative of Gundersen insinuate that Minister of Industry Monica Mæland does not say what she means to the Stortinget, in the hearing and in the big debate, when she says that it is important and right that the Control Committee should address this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3157	I insinuate absolutely nothing, but it is obvious that when a government council is subject to the Storting, there is no point, really, in the extent to which it is right for a committee of control and constitution to implement the matter in the way you do. That's all I'm saying, and I also think the Council wanted to signal, that you have no idea of Storting's work, and it's handled quite properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3163	State Council of Malta has expressed an opinion on the Storting's work in this matter. She has said that she believes it was important and right that the control committee went into this matter, but the representative Gundersen says, in the staging room: what else should she say? And he now says in his answer to me that she had no other choice, and that she only answered what was expected of her. So I ask again, is it so that the representative Gundersen does not believe that Monica Meland means what she says?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3170	I have no reason not to believe that. But once again, what else could you have said? I have no reason not to believe you mean it. As I also said in the post, I believe it is absolutely right that the matter was notified, and it is quite clear that the seriousness of the matter would in any case have led to the fact that it was brought to light by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in Stortinget. But that's the timing of it, that's when it happens, and that you're running around with the fact that the council had its full rent to get an overview and handle it in relation to the companies, which I'm questioning. But that's my consideration of the situation. So I think it's a little remarkable that the committee always points out and has to cover up what a state council said in such a hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3179	I won't make it so difficult. Now Jette Christensen has already taken this. The Council of State might have said that I feel that this hearing is not really necessary, but of course I say because, etc. Now Gunnar Gunnersen has opened that dance himself, but I'm not going to go further on it. So the representative says that this information would have come through the ownership dialogue with the Ministry and Stortinget anyway – even though this warning happened in 2011, and they have been sitting on this information since 2011. Then my question is: When would this information suddenly, through the ownership dialogue, come to the Council of State and to the Storting – by itself, suddenly, without it being up to the public? I do not fully understand the arguments of the representative, Gundersen, and he may have the opportunity to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3186	Then I'll try to prepare it. I believe the matter is so serious that it is quite obvious that all the information that has come out would have come out, either by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs taking it afterwards, or also through dialogue with the companies. It could have come up at the general meeting. It is clear that here one would have had to explain itself to a general meeting, when a subsidiary in which one has invested has come up with these kinds of challenges. I am absolutely convinced that the information must have been provided. But that's now my perception of it. I think both ownership democracy, ownership dialogues, everything, would have worked. And finally, it would have come through a hearing, which had come later, where it had done what the control committee itself says: Checked whether the government council has followed up its ownership exposure well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3198	That's the Gundersen's opinion, but I don't understand what it's based on. In the General Assembly in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, these things have not come to light. The last time we were here in the hall – and the councillor was here – she didn't have this information. So this information was put on both the Legal Director and the Financial Director – and not least put the Chairman of the Board of Directors on this information for at least 10 months before the new Group Manager carried it on, after all the public had written about it, and put it in the press. I understand that the representative of Gundersen has a personal opinion on this, but I don't think it's knowledge-based and based on the information that the rest of the committee, who's been working on this matter for two years, knows. So a bit of caution should be added when criticising others for taking up this hearing – and having the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3203	I think this is going to be a little bit of a gamefecture. I have the impression that I think this has come to light. And once again, as I said in my post: I also think you should admit that it's actually a whole system that works to get that kind of information out. It is clear that when the VimpelCom case exploded in 2014, it was well, and there was a case, and there was an investigation, the case was escalated in a completely different way – also with regard to what the outside world knew. I accept that both the media and everyone play a role there, but if you've got information that would not have happened otherwise, I'm still in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3208	If there are any people who have been involved in gambling in this place – yes, now the representative Tetzschner will soon have the floor... But first they were to open up the case, then they were against the hearing, and now I am unsure what they really are. The representative of Gundersen says that the hearing was good. That is what the Council of State has said. So if there's any game fiction here, this is driven by right-wing representatives. They would not ask Jo Lunder during the hearing because he was under investigation and was under investigation, but in the previous case, the defence case, they asked 18 questions to a person who was under investigation. So if you're going to talk about gambling, you might want to look inward into yourself first, before you start accusing others of taking up a hearing. So in such a big case, which has international branches and perhaps is the biggest corruption case in the history of the world, we should not have a hearing when we hear that the group management actually knew about accusations already in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3215	I'm not going to talk about the other issues that the Control and Constitutional Committee has been involved in here, but I didn't say you shouldn't have a hearing. I have just said that it was obvious that it was going to be this type of review, but I asked questions by doing so at the same time as a police investigation, while the matter was not clarified in the judicial bodies that are actually there. I think it would actually have been more useful if you had done it afterwards, and I think that we, who are responsible for state ownership, are trying as hard as we can to follow up on the ongoing state ownership also with regard to corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3220	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3223	I will start this second post by saying that I believe the Council of State made a good contribution to the Storting in this matter. She answered all the challenges that lie in the matter, in a relevant way, as she has been doing all along. There's been a discussion about how zero tolerance is to be understood. Some of the representatives say it's problematic because it's not defined in more detail. I don't understand anything about that. Zero tolerance is easy to understand, political and moral. It's not going to happen, it's not going to happen, it's not going to happen. And if you find out, you should tell them about it. There can be nothing to discuss. Because we're all in this room, across all party divisions – if everyone had been here – agree that this is something that should not happen. There can't be anything to discuss. Zero tolerance is zero tolerance. So to this with ownership policy, as Gundersen and others take up. The councils were also through it. I would say ownership policy, as defined in previous communications and in current communications, is firm. There is no majority of the Committee, nor the representatives of the Workers' Party, to be specific to it, who ask questions about ownership policy as defined and adopted by the Stortinget. What I think is wonderful in the debate, a little here in the Chamber, but even more so in the public debate, is that a large number of representatives of Norwegian business – prominent ones, I would say – point out that the fact that we have this debate in the Norwegian Parliament today is a problem of ownership. I don't understand. Because it is not the control committee that is involved in this matter, and now I say through the president to the representative Gundersen and the representative Tetzschner: this is caused by the fact that we are dealing with one of the world's biggest corruption cases, and that Telenor, as a majority-owned state-owned company, has broken the intention of ownership policy by not telling what to tell them. That's what's breaking ownership policy. That's what's the fact in this case. If we were to follow the narrow track, for which the representatives Tetzschner and Gundersen are speaking, we would have promoted mistrust proposals against the Council of State because in the previous round she said crazy things to the Stortinget. But because we persecuted the case, because we didn't believe in it, we stand up here and acquit the council, as she deserves. The strange thing about the discussion we are now experiencing is that it is the representatives of the Right who are driving and questioning the Committee of Inquiry and loading and handling, who have so unequivocally released their own Council of State. Why in the world are they doing that? I don't understand. It must simply be very difficult for the council to sit and listen to it, because it is all the other parties on the Stortinget who say that she has handled it quite exemplaryly, as I said in my post. But they must have some discussion about some legal understanding that is outside the facts of the case. Can't they admit it, and stop trying to talk away from the core of the question? It's just beginning to be politically embarrassing to listen, as it's gradually developing. Now it has to be said from about this, and I do that in the way I do now. It's getting politically embarrassing, and I'm surprised that the Right is in such a situation. The representative Tetzschner says that nothing comes out of this, because we agree that everything should be annexed to the protocol. Yes, we agree that this should be annexed to the Minutes. We do that because there is no basis for anything else. No one should doubt that we would have made another proposal if there had been a basis for it. But it is because we have found that the exercise of ownership by the Council of State did not cause anything else but that it should be annexed to the Minutes. In that case, a non-talk decision should be taken. Then the representative Tetzschner should be pleased and talk it up, like the decision that it is right to make on such an occasion, and not try to argue along a track that could have no other purpose than to undermine the authority of the control committee. It is the serious thing in this situation – that we are constantly being asked questions about how we handle this. This cannot lead to anything other than undermining the authority of the control committee and hence the authority of the Stortinge. I had not waited for that from the Right, which, next to the Workers' Party, is the government party in Norway, to put it straight out. I hadn't expected that, I wouldn't have thought so. But it's an argument that comes because you have to try to create legitimacy for your own behavior in the committee. That's what's happening. So finally, in the extension of this, there's a side to what I think is necessary to take now and perhaps also later in the debate, because I'm not going to let it go, and that's the fact that even people outside this hall, with very significant authority in Norwegian society, have engaged themselves on this issue. This concerns the Director of the NHO, the Director of Finance Norway, and not least the Director of the Stock Exchange, who actually thought that the hearing would not take place and that those who were asked to come would not be here. I see that as very serious. It is absolutely necessary to say from this pulpit, during this debate, that it is the Stortinget that rules in Norway. And it turns out that it was absolutely necessary. It's also saying that these are people who in public space have allied themselves with the representative Tetzschner, and he's allied himself with them. But that's to note in this context that, for example, the former stock exchange director, Sven Arild Andersen, has said – not about the control committee, but about the State Council – the State Council: Her conduct is an example of how not to behave. She shows feelings, drives suspicion, he set aside – that is, Aaser – without following the rules of the game. Politicians tend to act like this, and that's why it's going to be inexorable. Why am I just going to settle for these things? It should have been Tetzschner's task, next to me, instead of allying with the kind of forces in the Norwegian community that intend to put the elected power aside. What Aaser has said, we've heard, and I'm not repeating it, but it's about lack of impulse control. Well, I don't mean that. We are behind the Council of State's action on what happened to Aaser. I don't have much more time, but I just want to say that when the stock exchange manager says they won't meet, by reference to the course, the stock exchange course: it's not the stock exchange that's going to decide in Norway. That's what we're going to do. If I need to say more about this, I will use my speaking time until this debate is over. It's safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3257	The representative of Kolberg says that the Storting decides. Of course, Storting decides, but that's exactly what ownership is all about: we decide with others. In the announcement of ownership, we actually put the framework around what the Storting has of expectations, what the national parliament has of expectations of the governments of the companies, but we have established responsibilities downwards so that others too can be joint owners with the state. That's exactly what, I think, is a little basic when you're discussing that it's the Storing that decides. Here, there are actually others who are also with us. And once again, VimpelCom is not a company that we're directly engaged to, it's through Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3262	Yeah, that's also an argument. It was good Gundersen took this up, because I didn't have time. I'm going to come back to it a little later maybe, too, but I'm going to say this now: I don't understand why it's a problem for private shareholders that the Stortinget helps to keep track of the fact that there's no corruption going on. I don't understand anything about it. They should be happy about that, and I notice that there are no private shareholders directly who have spoken negatively about Storting's behaviour. There are some representatives of them – well – but I haven't heard it, and I don't understand that it can be a problem. I have heard that the stock exchange directors and others say that this may be a problem for the Norwegian State stock exchange, or that they will not invest. I have it to say about it: the private share capital that will not go into and invest in companies that might then be managed as we have now managed it, it can just stay away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3267	No one has said that it is a problem for the state to combat corruption. Rather the contrary, I think it is full support among all. But you have to respect the decision-making bodies that are in fact, and that is what I am asking if the representative Kolberg fully understands that it is actually other owners who should also have a word with it. That's why I pointed out that the ownership message is so central, because there we have sent out in full transparency what our expectations are to the companies, so that all joint owners, all employees, all lenders, all those who have something to do with those companies, know what we expect from the company. So no one has said that there is any problem. But we have to respect the rules we have set ourselves to deal with them – we have pointed that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3272	We fully respect it, but again we experience what I pointed out in my last post now – and what was that? It's that the representative Gundersen, like everyone else who talks like he does, ignores that we're not the ones who've broken the rules. In this case, it is those who have not informed their principal owner of a significant breach of the Storting decision that they are required to comply with. Why isn't there concentration on that part of the case, instead of concentration, that we have had an involvement in this that has triggered this question, and that has helped to reveal it? Why do you do this in this way? I say again what I said from the pulpit, that it has no other purpose than to try to reduce the ability of the elected power to control the Storting's own decisions. That'll get the representative from the Right in charge. I don't stand for it. That's why I've been in front of this for these two years, and we've come to the conclusion that the Right is alone on these understandings in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3277	I don't think we'll agree on that, but it'll bring me a little bit to Aaser. What I tried to express, at least, was that I fully understand what happened when that trust was broken, and that's exactly what's so important. Then it found out that the information was withheld, and it got its consequence, and I believe that it is correct. Once you have been trusted, it should also have a consequence when your trust is broken. There was also a great deal of understanding among the owners that it had to have the consequence it had – just so it is not left as a misunderstanding – because it is obvious who has broken the order of trust here. It was Telenor who didn't inform. But once again, as also lawyer Knudsen was in the hearing, this is one of the most central and difficult questions a board member has to deal with: When should you go on with information, and what kind of information should you go to the owners with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3284	I just have to say to all members of the board via the representative, Gundersen and the Spokesman's Chair: if you see that there is corruption, there is no doubt, there is nothing to discuss, then it's just going on with that information, and that's what's the reality of this case, and that's what they haven't done. And why don't the Right first and foremost focus on it, instead of driving to discuss with us that we shouldn't have actually done this way? It has no other purpose – I say it again, and it is very serious – than that the government party is trying to minimize and downgrade the elected authority in following up its own decisions. It's a very serious story that's about to become as serious as the reality of the matter, because here we have the question: who is it that decides in Norway? We're big-time representatives, and when we think it's right to deal with this the way we do, all the parties in this room, except the Right, believe that this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3289	We fully agree on that. Obviously, if a member of the board gets information of this kind, you have to go on to the owner, and that's exactly what happened, that it hadn't been done, and that's how it got the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3294	I just want to say that's good. Now I'm going to be so liberal that I'm going to say that it's possible that I've misunderstood Tetzschner on this, but he had a comment in his first post referring to the Aaser being "hanged out". Yes, he's been hanged out, but why has he become so? He's hung out because he's done what he's done. It's not right, and there's no need to try to talk it over or to make it any neater than it's been. For my part, I fully support the action of the Council of State in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3299	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3302	The previous line round was amazing. It was also the case-rapporteur's last post before that. The rapporteur has repeated many times during the debate ‘I don’t understand any of it’. I'll use that quote one more time. Well, there are a lot of people out there who are voting in just that, that there are a couple of things the case rapporteur has at least overlooked. First, there is a full identification between individuals who have been inside the picture for non-Telenor and Telenor. The fact that you don't see any difference between the level of organization and the level of individuals makes you build up a pretty strong charge against Telenor as a company that it doesn't deserve today, and that it didn't deserve that time either. There are individuals who have served elsewhere, from Telenor, who have contributed to clarifying the matter – I am also talking about the anonymous alert who remained anonymous, not so much thanks to the treatment of his name by the Control and Constitutional Committee, but nevertheless. I also have to say that we come very quickly into a strange argument that I think the Storting should be in addition. It's that you get your motives mistrusted. It was said that there is no point on the Right's part but to reduce the respect for and authority of the Committee. No, for that work the Committee does not need further assistance. It is precisely because the committee responsible for monitoring has been harmed to forget the other mission it has, namely to protect the constitutional rules. It has been hurt to ignore these. That means you're conscious of a function distribution and a power distribution. So it's not a matter of any less interest to clarify rudeness and corruption that you remember which parties were accused, where they have committed this corruption, and which authorities have investigated it. It is then that VimpelCom has committed its bribes in Uzbekistan and under US stock exchange law has been subjected to effective and fair, as far as I can judge, prosecution that is truly fraudulent. Everyone should be happy about that. So it's this bridge construction to get Telenor really into it, which I'm responding to. Furthermore, when it comes to Telenor – which is a joint venture, with the state as a substantial but not only owner – the rules of the game that the state itself, as this hall, has adopted, are not taken into account for information to the stock exchange and for respect for the public stock law. There is no respect for the reporting lines provided for by law. It's like you don't go to the owners in the first place. You work through the shareholder community through a general meeting, and at first you go to the board. It's this inability to distinguish factually and thematically, which has been a major problem, so that when you do certain things very quickly, we should say, completely necessary limitations to get the system of madness, to say it like that, you're faced with not wanting to settle matters, and defending both one and the other. It could not be removed from the truth. So there's someone who's spent a lot of their time on what the Right has thought about the follow-up of these issues. I would like to say that you have been injured for some mixture of words and expressions. First, we use the word cause completely neutrally as a theme. When someone raises a matter, it may be that they alert a theme, or they have read something in the paper. Of course, we're not against discussing that in the committee. Then you might want to consult with the Council of State, because it's usually about the state issues that also belong to the Committee, and then you open a correspondence. At a later stage, you decide whether to open a more formal case. If you do that, the committee itself can't stop it, so it has to end here in the hall, even if you might find that there was no more reason for the matter. But then the regulation is that it should be finalized in Stortinget. So on the way to Stortinget, this came with a hearing. Hearings are not an independent process step; there is a public broadcast meeting where the committee can ask questions and invite those who want to come. The only thing that is really expected to meet is the Council of State, because it is the Council of State that is our subject of investigation. It's not worse. I guess we're on the tap and we're going to sum up, even though I see there's a couple more speakers. I think we have to say that the summary must be that the source of the discussion, VimpelCom, has been punished, that Telenor, who owns, has not been involved in corruption, and that the council and the ministry have managed the state's shareholding without incurring any criticism or criticism at all. It is the shareholder community, where the state is formed, which decides through the general meeting and chooses board. The size shall not have a special view of staff follow-up, nor shall it include the appointment of directors, directors or other senior staff in a listed company, nor shall it include other companies. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to exercise ownership in the interests of other shareholders, stock exchange regulations, securities trading laws, public stock law and, of course, our own communications, which are then communications with statements from the Storting and which, of course, also have a lower ranking than the most important in the fight against corruption, namely criminal law. But that has not been the case in Telenor's case. I also have to say that it is going to be complete on the side of the adopted ownership policy when individual representatives in this room have obviously been personally opposed to individuals in a Norwegian listed company. It is, in fact, a serious disturbance to the guidelines, it contributes to unclear responsibilities and, if it continues, will in the long term damage state ownership. It's not just me who thinks, but, it was the committee leader, there were a lot of people outside this room who meant this, and then they committed themselves to the head of the committee. It was almost a big conspiracy that was drawn out. I like Marte Gerhardsen and Agenda well, but to attribute a greater conspiracy to us with the NHO and other excellent social debaters – and in this way to be suspicious – I still have to say that is a level of debate that might be avoided. So maybe you could reflect on why so many different actors point to the same thing. It may be that something has been lost along the way. My impression, and that's the last thing I'm going to say tonight, of the debate is that some representatives have gone very far in fighting party politics and promoting self-marking, and that thus they have been injured to trample on what I think is a respectable Norwegian listed company, Telenor, and thus also damaged the interest of thousands of Telenor employees who have built up these values that makes the state as valuable a holding as it has. They had earned better, and they should have had an apology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3326	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen had a reference to the nutrition committee, and before today's discussion I went through carefully what was in the last three big messages and in the three associated positions of the nutrition committee on the concept of zero tolerance for corruption. So far as I found, it's that neither in the message nor in the comments of the last staging message, Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014, issued by the Solberg Government on 20 June 2014, or the second-last Report. St. 13 for 2010–2011, issued on 1 April 2011, by the Stoltenberg Government, was the concept of zero tolerance for corruption mentioned. The reference I found, to which I referred, was St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, which was issued on 8 December 2006, and in the setting of that message, Innst. S. No 163 for 2006-2007, reads: ‘The Committee expects that all companies with State ownership will practice zero tolerance against corruption and have good systems in place to control it.’ I understand that it was put in place at the time, that it was then the current policy from 2007, and one has had many years to give those systems content. I would like to say that I was a little surprised when the rapporteur said that the concept of zero tolerance for corruption cannot be discussed. No, zero is zero, it all knows, but what we're talking about here is how we're going to prevent it, and then it's not enough just to turf the concept of zero tolerance for corruption, a has to give it a closer content. This is a very big challenge for companies that operate a country that the case rapporteur and others have said are reasonably corrupt, and that one says it's okay to act in. Then one has to give this a closer look at how the company's management should behave in order to avoid such corruption, and I have tried in my post to go into something about how one can prove zero tolerance in practice. One of the descriptions, which at least has been very useful to me, is if the company's management can prove that, when they have faced elections where one went into a significant risk of entering into corruption, they have said: No, we don't – we don't go in there, sail if there was an opportunity that could commercially help to set aside the goals that companies have in order to make big money. Then one will show that one has really taken this seriously. I want to stand by what I said, after the Central Party's assessment, it is necessary that the Council of States comes to the Grand Duchy with the theme of zero tolerance for corruption in an appropriate way, so that the level of awareness of what needs to be done to avert corruption can be raised considerably. It's important here that different environments get involved in that topic. I have noticed that both Ecocrime and the survey environment are very pleased that this is being addressed, and I also hope that the academic environment in Norway can address this, so that those who are also trained as leaders have more clarity about what is in the concept of zero tolerance for corruption, to practice it in the demanding situations. Otherwise, I will join Mr Kolberg's comment on the behaviour of the NHO management and Finance Norway and Oslo Børs. I think the statements that have been made show a lack of willingness to come up with the facts. I say, as committee leader Kolberg, that they should be very happy that we have a big deal here that organizes the economic activity so that one gets a competition, and that one gets a fair competition. That's how competition is a state product. Competition is a state product. If the State does not facilitate competition, it will not have competition, it will have something else. That is why I give my full support to what the chairman of the committee says there. When it comes to the exchange rate, I also have a comment there. Telenor is a large company, which has a significant state ownership, and not enough with it. I referred to what happened in 2002, when an agreement was signed. As far as I can see from the picture, it must be from the government's representative residence in the Parkway, where the two directors are sitting in front, and behind it there are two key personalities, Kjell Magne Bondevik and Putin. It is clear that when a company has such a portfolio of personalities, the company's share price rather than its share price goes up, I expect, and it is not too much that the Stortinget, who has the ownership of the state's ownership, will follow here, whether the Stortinget's will is valid, and whether critical matters should be raised and revealed. If that results in a decrease in the share price, then that's just the other side of what we're talking about here, that's two sides. One goes up, and if one doesn't look right, one goes down too, and that's the Storting's will. It's a logical consequence of ownership, of a great state ownership of it all. It is important to bring this forward, and I think that those who are engaged in the financial sector should take it with them after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3342	The representative Tetzschner said that there was a lot that was wonderful, and he also said that I – or the majority had to do it almost, but at least I – had been hurt to overlook some things. What's amazing in this situation is that the representative Tetzschner has been hurt to overlook that he is completely alone in this understanding of the situation. It is that the Right has positioned itself as they have done in this matter, which is the wonderful. Then he goes on to say that this should have worked through the shareholder community. Yes, I agree. I wish that had happened. Then this matter had not been a fact. Then we had it solved through the shareholder community, but it has not worked through the shareholder community. It is also said that we are trying to talk Telenor into the matter, despite the fact that we are very clear that no, Telenor has not done anything criminal as a company. In my introduction, I said very clearly that no individual is charged with anything, and that of course I support it. But what remains is the fact that Telenor's management has broken ownership policy by not going to the shareholder community and telling what happened, and in that way has hurt itself. I agree that the employees of Telenor had earned an apology – not by me, but by the former management. They're the ones who should have apologized, and not us. It is amazing that the representative Tetzschner was injured not to say it instead of saying that we should apologize. That's the second wonder. We are probably at the end of this case. I would like to thank you for the support I have received from my colleagues from this chair on the occasion of the matter. That's good, because the pressure has been great, and a lot has been hanging on to me, even though there has been a clear majority in the committee all the time for the way we've handled this. Now it is a unanimous decision to be taken later today. I'm glad we're not in a situation where we need to accuse the state council and the government of anything. It's nice that that's not the case. But we've got up the political dimension in this in a way that I think many in Norwegian business have noticed: the size does not accept corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3355	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3369	I am now delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the National Audit Office's notification of the activities in 2015. The National Audit Office has provided a full report, which well describes the work and activities of the National Audit Office in 2015. Both this and previous messages show that the work of the National Audit Office is important for the Storting to carry out its control of government and administration in a good way. It follows from the recommendation that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is also satisfied this year with the annual financial audit covering 15 departments, the Prime Minister’s Office and 227 underlying State activities for the financial year 2014. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the use of resources in corporate control has increased in line with the intentions of the strategic plan and new organisation. The control of the management of state companies for 2014 included 124 companies and activities broken down into wholly and jointly owned companies, health enterprises, state enterprises, special-law companies and student partnerships. I will again underline the importance of company control. When the government organises important parts of its activity in companies, it is important that company control is good. There must be real control in order to also contribute to the learning and guidance of management in the future. The National Audit Board has sent 10 management reports in Document 3 series to Stortinget in 2015. These management reports have put important issues on the agenda. These reports are essential for the Storting to receive relevant information on the implementation and impact of public action. The recommendations of the National Audit Office mainly concern the need to develop more overall and knowledge-based governance, the need for ministries and businesses to make greater use of the space for action provided by given instruments, and the need to clarify responsibilities and strengthen coordination measures. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is generally inclined to agree with the conclusions and recommendations of the management reports. That means they're good. There's a lot of evidence that there's a good interaction between the National Audit Office and the administration. The national audit carries out user surveys for the different types of audits each year. This year, too, the Committee noted that user surveys generally produce good results. This applies to all types of audits. It tells us that the Riksrevision is an organisation that has a great deal of respect for the administration, and that the basics are a good relationship between the Riksrevision and the administration, although sometimes there are also disagreements. When dealing with this annual report, it is important to remember that we generally have good governance in Norway. But as I have pointed out from this pulpit earlier, parts of the administration have problems following up what is being pointed out by the Riksrevision. It is a problem, and it is important that the administration takes on the lessons of the Riksaudition’s extensive audit activities. The National Audit is celebrating its 200th anniversary this year. In this anniversary year, we can remember that the Riksrevision is one of the state institutions that has the longest roots in Norway – formally and effectively. It is remarkable that, from the very beginning, our parliamentary ancestors have given so much attention to the control of the government of the Grand Duchy. Parliamentary control is of great importance in our democracy. The national audit is and will continue to be the main provider of control cases by the Storting. The need for large-scale control is large and complex. It also imposes great demands on the National Audit Office in the future. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the National Audit Office's international work and activities. Norway has a strong national audit — also internationally. The Committee welcomes the participation of the National Audit Office in international audit missions and assists in the development of audits in other countries. The Committee agrees with the annual report that independent and effective national audits are a prerequisite for ensuring proper control of the public sector and the fight against corruption. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision itself considers that international work facilitates the strengthening of the Riksrevision’s knowledge in areas that are important for the Riksrevision. That's good. Both in this message and in previous messages, the Stortinget clearly shows that the Riksrevision’s work is the basis for the Stortinget to carry out the task of controlling government and administration in a very good way – and in the way that both the Constitution and other legislation actually provide the basis. The Committee agrees with the content of the National Audit Office's communication, and I repeat that it is a unanimous committee that presents this position to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3418	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3425	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for a good job. I think it is an important point made by the Labour Party's people in this proposal, which has been submitted to the Health Committee. The proposers refer to the lack of specialist nurses, who are and have been a deficiency for several years. It is particularly critical in specialist health care ABIO, which for the most part means anaesthetic, paediatric, intensive and surgical care. The departure for them is greater than access right now, and that means it will challenge us over time when we're going to achieve our goals of operating, have the capacity to operate as much as possible and bring down the waiting lists, which have also been discussed in this room before. The proposers believe that there is a need for a national overview of the obliging escalation plan in this area, for what is needed both in hospitals and in the local health service in the future, and that this will provide an overview of what we need for educational institutions and practical places in both hospitals and municipality Norway in the future. That is why two minority proposals from the rapporteurs are being promoted today. An overall committee agrees that in the future more specialist nurses, or nurses in general, both with and without further training, will be needed, both in the municipality and in hospitals. We also agree that the most demanding thing right now is to have enough anesthesia, children, intensive and surgical nurses. The Committee points out that in the context of the 2016 State Budget, the Government presented Competence Plan 2020. It shall ensure good recruitment and stable staffing of health and social professionals, ensure that basic and continuing training is adapted to the needs of the service, enhance the competence of employees and, in addition, further measures. Everyone in the Committee agrees that there will be no less need for different types of nurse if we are to meet the needs of the future in Health-Norway – we need more places of practice and training, and one must have a content in continuing training, regardless of the type, that meets the current needs at all times. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that we will succeed in being ahead of what becomes the need for nursing care in the future, both in the municipality and in the specialist health service. It is a management responsibility, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, to have competence plans and overviews of competences both in the municipalities and in hospitals, so that one lies in front of what will be the need of their services. As an old intensive care provider, I know that this has been a shortcoming for a long time. It is not good enough that hospitals are behind these services, because we are facing challenges that we do not reach the goals we have set. Competence plans and overviews of competences in municipalities and hospitals must go hand in hand with areas of practice and education, so that we can – and in good time is ready – turn around when the need changes, when we have a different need from what we see today, and when we work differently, we have other forms of operation and more in day surgery, which will require more staff. This must also be addressed by hospitals and ensure that they have competence plans for. The same is true of municipalities when they know that they are getting more and more people back from hospitals with other challenges than what they had before. This means that municipalities have to take it seriously, make skills plans, have a conscious attitude to further education and ensure that they are able to meet the needs of patients at all times. Therefore, the Christian People's Party focuses on placing responsibility for this where the provision of services is to be, to the specialist health service, that they must have their competence plans and objectives for further training. The municipality must have the same thing. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals, because we believe that the proposals need to be put down at municipal level and in a mission to the specialist health service in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3444	Health is knowledge-intensive. Recruitment of competent health professionals is essential for the ability of healthcare providers to provide high-quality healthcare. Nurses are the largest health professionals we have. There has been a shortage, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, of specialist nurses for several years. NOVA’s last survey shows that we lack almost 30,000 nurses in 20 years, and that too few choose to specialize in midwives, health sisters, intensive nurses, child nurses and surgery nurses. If we are to succeed in the interaction reform and provide people with better health care in their own homes or in the community environment, we need to be able to increase their competence in municipal health as well. In 2014, only half of the municipalities had their own municipal landlady. The need for cancer nurses will increase. From 2017 to 2018, municipalities will have a further extended responsibility for people with mental and drug-related disorders. The national health and health plan did not address staff needs and recruitment strategies. The government said they would come back to it on their own matter. The Primary Health Communication described different competences, professions and, in general terms, challenges of recruitment, but also – no prediction or strategy to ensure future competence. Prime Minister Erna Solberg promised to provide 15 000 more nurses and the same number of health professionals with further training by 2020. The cost – SEK 1.8 billion. DKK over four years – should be earmarked to ensure that the funds went for the purpose. The working party calls for an obligatory follow-up to this election ceremony. We call for a survey of the status, a description of the need and a stepping-up plan for the training of specialist nurses, at the latest in the context of the 2017 state budget. Good dialogue between the parties to the community health services and the hospitals and educational institutions and the authorities is important in order to discuss the dimensioning, content and type of specialists that will be needed. Both Denmark and England have established a specialisation as a clinical expert nurse. Municipalities and hospitals need to have a clearer policy that facilitates and stimulates employees to take on further training, and we also demand more mechanisms that make it easier to combine jobs and education. At the same time as we look at educational capacity and continuing training, the Workers' Party is committed to continuously working on the organisation, division of tasks and user involvement for the better exploitation of existing competences. The same applies to full-time culture, which will contribute to increasing and improving the use of existing competences. We have a raging development in medical treatment, diagnostics, user involvement, welfare technology, the possibility of more self-treatment and the need for more multidisciplinary interaction. The working party believes that updating the framework plans will have to be prioritised in order to provide the newly educated with up-to-date skills. I have recently become aware that on average it actually takes 17 years from a method has been documented with positive effect until it is implemented, and that is too long. We need to be able to organise ourselves so that new knowledge is used more quickly, both in practice and not least through education. With the challenges we're facing in health recruitment, I have to say it's a pleasure to have an increase of 20 pst. applying for medical treatment this year. There are three applicants per study place. Practice sites have been a challenge in increasing the number of study places, so here we need to find a system of incentives so that we can put practical places across the country, but both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. There is a merger of many higher education institutions. It is important that we contribute to increased quality in education and that we be able to maintain a decentralised offer, so that we get good recruitment across the country. In all cases where we have called for better coherence between the adopted health policy of the Storting and the dimensioning of health and education provision, the second Council of State is systematically referred to. It also makes the Council of State in its reply to the Committee. The Ministry of Knowledge continues to have the primary responsibility for dimensioning educational capacity and assessing the need for revision of framework plans, while the Ministry of Health and Welfare has a general responsibility to contribute to the recruitment of sufficient personnel. The Labour Party believes that the Minister of Health must take greater responsibility to ensure better consistency between the agreed objectives of health provision for the population and the dimensioning of educational provision, but also for the content of health education. Then I promote the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3472	The representative Ruth Grung then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3475	Workers’ party representatives address an important issue in their proposal for a representative. There is no doubt that the need for specialist nurses, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities, will grow in the years to come. Yes, it is also true that the lack of specialist nurses has been documented for several years, for a long time. That is why we are particularly pleased that the Right has shown rapid action on this after we took over in government. At an early stage, we established a wage subsidy for advanced clinical master’s education for nurses who are employed in the municipal health service, and we strengthened the grants for the initial, further and continuing training of nurses. In the government’s very good report on primary health services, which was largely endorsed here in Stortingen last year, important steps are being taken to equip the community health service to carry out its important tasks for its citizens. It will be more attractive and professionally interesting for nurses to work in the municipalities in the years to come. Working more in patient-related teams, and having nurses take several of the perhaps traditional tasks to follow up chronically ill patients, will, of course, also require nurses to have important competences. But it'll make the work interesting. We need to talk about the many exciting challenges of working well and closely with patients in municipal health care. The COSTRA figures show a very positive growth in the number of specialist nurses in the municipalities. It promises very well. In the right, we think there is a connection between the profession as a nurse being given a more important position, and that we now see, as the representative Ruth Grung said, that nursing education is among the most preferred for young students. I very much agree with the representative of Bollestad that the municipalities and health companies must be conscious of their responsibilities. They need to facilitate nurses to continue their training in order to become clinically more advanced in order to be able to cope with the important tasks they get around patients. Many reports show that investing in competences is what contributes best, both to the quality of services, patient safety and to good and efficient working environments. The Government’s Competence Plan 2020 has important overall strategies to ensure that we meet precisely the challenges that proposers point to. With regard to practice places in municipalities and hospitals, I would like to stress that it is important to ensure adequate, but also relevant, places of practice for students. Health companies and municipalities must bear this responsibility in common, and it is also important that we think again about where students should have their practices. The shift from many patients to outpatient treatment as a daytime treatment also makes it important that practice sites are established here. Of course, it is important here that universities and health companies and municipalities cooperate well. In the Right, we are pleased that the government has shown its clear ambitions for the future needs of personnel and competences, both in the National Health and Hospital Plan and in the Communication The Future Primary Health Service. In the national health and hospital plan, the government says that further training will be offered and an evaluation of the provision of advanced clinical care aimed at the needs of hospitals. The government will also improve knowledge of personnel and competences needs and strengthen the impact of healthcare on education. It is incredibly important that we ensure better consistency between the content of education, the final competence of students and the needs of healthcare. The Prime Minister's ambition of continuing training of 15 000 nurses and training of 15 000 health professionals is somewhat related to the ambitions of this government. We will need many wise heads in the health sector in the years to come. We're now adding that base.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3499	There are some professional groups we cannot be apart — one of them is healthcare professionals. Nursing in the sense that we know it today was born through the work of Florence Nightingale. She was a pioneer in modern nursing and established the first secular nursing school in the world, in London. She was an innovation and used tools as statistical data presented in tables and charts, and used them as powerful arguments for medical reform. Such statistics are some of the reasons why we are debating here today. We have been presented statistics that are disturbing and show major challenges in recruitment to the health and care sector as well as the future shortage of specialist nurses. Fortunately, much has changed in our western world since Florence Nightingale lived. The welfare community thrives, people live longer – including with their diseases. Today’s age tends to have complex and multiple diseases. Body and soul hang together and sometimes challenge scientific medicine. The diagnostic spectrum is expanding, and we are still familiar with new diseases and disorders. Research and medical progress make people survive diseases with a previous fatal prognosis. Patients' rights have been strengthened. Both patients, users and relatives are well informed, and both know and know how to make demands for treatment and care. The expectations of the Norwegian health system are sky-high, which means that the quality of both the specialist health service and the community health service is constantly being put under the spotlight. But all of this doesn't happen by itself. It is we who lay the basis for the further development of the welfare society through our policies, thanks to research that provides medical progress and knowledge-based health and care professionals. We need to plan for the future, and this work has started this government. This is done in the Ministry of Health and Health, in the County Health Service, in the Municipal Health Service and at the KS, in association with private organisations and institutions and closely related to the education system. One example is Competencelift 2020, which is the government’s plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in the municipal health and care services. It's been granted about $12 billion. kr for the follow-up to measures in 2016. Competence 2020 follows up the call for proposals on the primary health service of the future, the escalating plan for the drug field and the government's plan for care, Care 2020. In the care area plan, this includes, inter alia: outlined measures to assess the establishment of public specialist approval for nurses with selected master courses and to assess whether the content of current continuing training for nurses meets the needs of the services. There are some things in the Workers' Party's proposal that specifically catch my attention. There is no doubt that we see major challenges in health and care in the future in time, both in terms of the number of people who want to train in the field, and in terms of the number of people who specialize. That's where we agree. That is how to solve this challenge, which we do not fully agree on. And I can't help but wonder: does the Workers' Party believe that a training institution with its dean is unable to assess and prioritise what issues are important in education, and whether their teachers need new, up-to-date knowledge without the State having to govern detail? Does the Labour Party believe that health and care institutions around Norway are unable to define which skills they lack today and in the future? And does not the Workers' Party know that several municipalities, in cooperation with the KS, have developed strategic competence plans, and that this cooperation is closely linked to the government's Competence Plan 2020? Today, all the world's knowledge is just a little keystroke away. A search for ‘special caregivers are defective’ presents headlines in both 2007, 2011, 2012 and early 2013. The challenge of a lack of specialist nurses was carefully outlined in the national health and care plan for 2011–2015 under the Stoltenberg government. So seriously this was looked at that it was developed a separate education message, Meld. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare Education, where the first chapter was entitled Better Health and Welfare — a question of competence. It is strange that the word ‘special care’ is not mentioned once in the notification. Therefore it is good that today's government picked up the ball where the previous government released it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3525	The question is whether we can motivate many enough to become nurses, and whether we can motivate enough of those who become nurses, both to want to work in hospitals and to want to work in primary health care and in hospital homes. It's been a big challenge for now. It is also a major challenge to motivate many enough to specialize – that it is done. I think, with reference to the previous speaker, that we must realize that Florence Nightingale is dead. This is about something other than a personal call. It's about opportunities and an interesting job, and it's about talking up and forwarding these professions. SV is not in the committee, but I have reviewed both the proposal and the State Council's letter. One of the challenges here is whether the educational institutions are interested enough seas to provide enough education. I sometimes ask questions about it, not because they don't see the need, etc., but they may have their own needs to meet the needs of society. It is a dilemma that higher education institutions are as careful in maritime governance as they are, when important societal tasks are to be solved. I'm not saying that we should necessarily change that, but I think we have to discuss it. Do they meet their needs now? The second is to ensure that there are enough places of practice for those seeking training. It says in the letter from the Council of State that you might have to look at other places to have a place of practice – and it's probably right that you have to. However, it also needs to be ensured that there are actually enough hospitals, including local hospitals, that can provide such training, both at the level of nurses and at the level of specialist training. I've been on board a college foundation for 25 years, and we've trained a lot of nurses. We have done so on the basis of a model based primarily on the need that has been local, both in hospitals and in local health services, and not on the need that a university has had for this. Then one has been able to combine this with available practice sites because one has had a local hospital. This is the College Foundation in Kongsvinger, and it has good results. I mention this because there are many aspects to the debate on hospital structure too, but one of them is that we actually have to have enough public hospitals, so there are enough institutions to accept those who are going to have practice. This does not apply only to nurses and specialised nurses. It is also a choice of other occupational groups that need these for their practice — of course combined with practice in other parts of the service, as mentioned here. There's no contradiction in itself. So working conditions are very important. Full-time is a prerequisite for success. You can't lure people into professions where you don't get full time. During the period 2011–2014, health businesses were required to work full-time – which is also referred to by the Council of State in its letter to the Stortinget – and one was then reduced by 20 pst. It's working. So the Council of State writes: ‘The work continues and a sound knowledge base for further work is established.’ Yes, I really hope so, but the government has removed the requirement for health companies in the newsletter. If it's changed again, I'm happy for it. I see some representatives shaking their heads. Then I am happy if that has happened, because it is absolutely necessary to set these requirements in order for it to be worked on. This is actually one of the parameters that it has something to count for. That's not all you have to count, but just in this area it counts. It is important to get more people to take this demanding but rewarding training, as well as the additional training that is being sought for more and more. SV will support the suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3549	I took the floor because the representative Karin Andersen in the first row drew up a discussion about the training of nurses, as I perceived it. There is an important discussion, but at present the major challenge is not the lack of applicants for nurse training. Part of the challenge is that nurse training at the 23 higher education institutions that currently train is in fact different – 23 different. It might be a slightly bigger challenge. But the structural changes in the higher education and university sectors can make us encounter equal education. Among other things, new NTNUs, who have nurse training in Gjøvik, Ålesund and Trondheim, are now working well to coordinate their nursing training. In the case of practice places related to nursing training, which Karin Andersen, the representative, was in, I did not hear that she took up the responsibility of the municipalities for obtaining practical places. I think they have a significantly greater potential than what they're taking out today. We have to massage the municipalities more. They need to take a wider range in practice than they do today, especially in mental health, drug addiction, public health and prevention. Too few are e.g. in school health services and health centres. This case relates in particular to the training of specialist nurses, and in this connection the representative asked Andersen Hospital. We have now adopted a national health and hospital plan that says that no hospital in Norway should be closed, so there is no shortage of hospitals. I will probably ask the employers here to do more. I think they've been neglecting themselves for a long time. They have had, you might say, more than enough with a corporate reform that has created many challenges. However, I think that they have too easily understood the temporary employment agencies and disallowed the employer's responsibility. That is why we are now in a somewhat difficult situation with regard to the number of specialist nurses in some areas. Here, companies have to take greater responsibility than we've ever seen before. It is a major challenge for so many actors to play together. I can't quite see that today's proposals are going to bring us much further, but we need to find incentives and, of course, economic stimulus, to contribute here from the Storting – perhaps with some money. But essentially, the actors here have to work more together to get the volume increase that needs to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3560	Like the proposers, I am concerned that the services must succeed in recruiting and maintaining specialist nurses. I think there have been good contributions here from both the case rapporteur and others who stress the importance of this. The special competence of anaesthetic, paediatric, intensive and surgical nurses, midwives, nurses and cancer nurses is very important in healthcare. The challenges of meeting the needs of specialist nurses are well known. However, I believe that the challenges must be met with different types of action than those proposed. It is now planned to ensure access to healthcare professionals with the right skills, such as nurses, and the Ministry is monitoring this work in the management of the establishments and in the cooperation we have with the Ministry of Knowledge. Increasing personnel and competences needs are key issues in the key messages on the primary health service of the future, in the National Health and Hospital Plan and in Competence Plan 2020. With the ongoing reform work and follow-up to the headlines, we will meet these challenges and create the patient’s healthcare. It is the Ministry of Knowledge that has the primary responsibility for nursing training, and several elements of the proposal thus fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. The proposals for the review of education, ensuring the competence of teachers, revising curricula and improving the conditions of training places are examples of this. The Ministry of Knowledge works, inter alia: developing a new management system for learning outcomes in health and social education. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Knowledge cooperate closely on these measures. The Ministry of Health and Health has the overall responsibility for recruiting enough health professionals. Employers are responsible for ensuring adequate and qualified personnel. The division of labour between my ministry and the Ministry of Knowledge requires good cooperation so that health and care services are given appropriate and up-to-date staff. One example is the provision of a sufficient number of places of practice, which is a common responsibility for health enterprises and municipal health and care services. A recent report on practice, prepared by the University and Higher Education Council on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, is a good starting point for further work on strengthening training in practice. In our national health and hospital plan, we presented a national staffing model for the specialist health service, to which the Stortinget joined. With this model, it will be easier to describe the need for the types of health professionals we need in the specialist healthcare service, including with regard to specialised competences. Because nurses are to contribute in many specialised areas, there are many different further training courses. In the context of the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan, further training provision for nurses is to be reviewed in order to ensure a good match between education and the needs of services. Competence 2020 is the Government's plan for recruitment, competence and professional development of municipal health and care services. The level of competence shall contribute to a highly professional service and shall ensure that the primary health service has sufficient and competent staff to meet the needs of the services. I notice that the setting also addresses challenges related to the recruitment of health professionals. Competence 2020 also includes how to meet these challenges. The challenges in the healthcare sector are not only addressed by training more health professionals. New forms of work, innovation, better organisation and division of tasks and new technologies are needed to achieve the objectives. In the National Health and Hospital Plan and the Primary Health Communication, we have also arranged to see whether the division of tasks between groups of health professionals is appropriate. The government will also investigate whether new clinical training for nurses at master level should be established, to a greater extent adapted to the needs of primary and specialist health services. We have also strengthened the grant for continuing training of nurses. There is already a good systematic effort to recruit nurses with special skills in both primary and specialist health services. I believe that this work is helping to equip us to meet the needs of the future. Priority should now be given to implementing measures such as: The size has also joined in the treatment of the two major communications covering the total total of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3587	As the minister probably understands, the Labour Party believes that it is not enough to leave the individual municipality and the individual hospital to ensure enough recruitment. It also turns out that with the practical sites system, a lot of time and resources are spent on the fact that there is no predictability as to where the places are – one really has to go around begging for places. It is not sustainable, because the practical part is an important part of the training. The question relates to the election vow given by Erna Solberg to offer 15 000 more offers of continuing training in nursing, and the ringing of 1.8 billion. kr. How much has been earmarked so far in this four-year period, and how many have been offered continuing training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3594	We're well on track to fulfill that promise. In the 2016 state budget, it is earmarked for over 1.2 billion. NOK to follow up on this. This means that, overall, one person receives basic, continuing education for about 3000 people each year in each of these groups, i.e. a total of 6,000 people. So there's a need for further reinforcement beyond this. There's one coming back to in future state budgets. But there is no doubt that this government, together with its cooperation parties, has just raised the earmarked appropriations for these purposes, in order to contribute to the greater ability of the municipalities to provide both basic, continuing and continuing training for nurses and other health professionals, in line with what the Prime Minister said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3601	The second thing we've taken up is the framework plans and the revision of them. Once we've visited health institutions, they say that they don't have enough and proper skills to deal with the challenges out there, and that the incentive systems in the higher education system are based on how many applicants you get. They set it up according to what young people might want to apply for, and necessarily not based on dialogue about what needs are, especially in the community health service. Does the Council of State feel that it would not make sense to have a better interaction between municipal health services and hospitals – on content, capacity and volume – in terms of those trained? So I can say that in Bergen we have four different nurses' schools. They define the content of the framework plans quite differently, so that there is no possibility of mobility around the country. It's also a challenge with a modern system that a lot of people move around.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3608	These include: one of the reasons for having received the review carried out by the University and Higher Education Council for the Ministry of Knowledge in this field. It is also the case that this government has warned that it will consider introducing national tests for nurses, precisely to ensure better quality throughout education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3613	I do not feel that the Council of State answered the question that the universities are independent in defining both the framework plans, the capacity, the device and the kind of specialisation to be, while at the same time seeing that both municipalities and hospitals lack these specialists, which we have been familiar with in the proposal. Isn't there any area where you can see that there could be a sense of closer dialogue between authorities and those who are going to use this, and educational institutions? And how is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3618	Regional cooperation forums have been established to that end. Then I fully agree that there needs to be a better match between the education provided and the needs of the services. There is just one thing that should be discussed in the cooperation areas established. I also believe that the Labour Party agrees that we in Norway have a long tradition that the university and higher education sectors are an independent sector. But that's why it's important that a sheep for the good cooperation arenas that are. This is the way to carry out a review of the provision of continuing training for nurses, just to provide an overview of today’s study provision and to help ensure that the content of education and the final competence of candidates are consistent with the needs of the services. This work is well under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3627	It's soon season for births somewhere. We know that children's departments are struggling to have enough specialist nurses, especially in maternity wards. We know that intensive care units are struggling to get enough temporary workers. In fact, hired nurses from other countries are widely used. It is good to meet the need, but at the same time it can also be a language challenge in some places, creating a safety margin that can be difficult – and we can get some deviations because of it. Does the Council of State think that the mission document for the specialist health service is clear enough of the responsibility they all have to ensure that we are in the forefront – because we are constantly told that it is too few to do so – or does it need to be made even more clear to ensure that we do not get into a situation where we do not have enough people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3634	The mission document has become a much clearer document, as we have, among other things. halved in extent. There are clear demands on the objectives to be achieved, and there are three very clear requirements: to reduce unnecessary waiting, to prioritise drugs and mental health and to ensure patient safety and quality — and to see what is involved in health, environment and safety, as an integral part of patient safety work. There are also clear requirements related to personnel. I fully agree that it is a major challenge that not least the Storting has contributed to many of the births taking place in the summer – and I don't think it is personal – through the admission to kindergartens, while those working in these departments, of course, want to have holidays with their children and their families. It's working very systematically. But there are big challenges, that's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3641	A bottleneck is a practice site, as the Council of State also says. It is clear that there are many places where you can probably have no practice today, especially when the interaction reform is completed and the municipal services are developed in these areas, so that they also have a specialised level. There are many services in the municipalities that, of course, also require special skills. Hospitals and the various institutes there are very important educational institutions. The Council of State and I probably can disagree on the use of private hospitals and commercial institutes in this, but the reason why I ask about this now is whether the Council of State can say how many places of practice there are for the training of nurses – and also for doctors – in such commercial hospitals and institutes that the State now uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3648	I believe that it is fully possible to allow private operators to also be part of the practice offer in relation to education. That's one of the reasons why we're here, among other things. has launched a pilot project to have practical sites for contract specialists. It is, in my opinion, a great unsolved potential for very useful practice places for doctors, so it should not be a hindrance to that. Of course, I don't have a complete overview of the total number now. I heard Andersen's posts, which had an undertone that there would be fewer places of practice because something has happened to the hospital structure. The size has adopted a national health and hospital plan that just ensures a decentralised hospital structure, where it is very clear that the smaller hospitals are part of the solution for the future, and not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3658	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3663	The reason why I'm dealing with what the Council of State is now saying is that I've been with you for so long that I know that these questions come up again and again, and that we also have to look at the hospital structure and the use of the capacity in total for, among other things. to establish the necessary health care places of practice and training. Then it has to be spread, so that also parts of the adult population who live and have a family can combine education with work and family and not move. It's very important all over the country. It is also important that the Council of State gets an overview of how the use of private commercial hospitals and the institute affects the ability to get the necessary practice places, which everyone says we agree that we should have. It will be a very important matter, I suppose, for those who believe that this is the right way to go, to ensure that these institutions take their share of responsibility. They don't do that today, and that means that the more we do it, the less educational capacity we have in a very precarious area. Finally, the representative Kjenseth from the left: he probably heard a little bad after what I said, because I was just concerned that you could have a practical place in many places, including in the local government sector, but I am very concerned that then you also have to have opportunities to build up the environments of competence that should be there before you assigning new tasks to the municipalities, for example. by transferring alcohol and psychiatry into the interaction reform. You have to build it up with proper grants, and then you get many places where you can have parts of your practice in the future. It is absolutely necessary to have capacity in those areas for that training to be good. I see the representative shaking his head, but it is not possible to reach a number of municipalities, as it is today, unfortunately. I think you have to be realistic about this. But of course, this is possible if you do this in a good way and get it built up with the quality that is necessary and the capacity that is sufficient, so that there is also the capacity to have practical students. Because it's demanding. I don't have health care experience, but from kindergarten, and having someone in practice, it's job and take capacity. We also need to know when someone's going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3672	The representative, Andersen, is dealing with this with full-time culture. If there's something I'm also passionate about, it's that we need a larger full-time culture of care and care and in health companies. The Minister of Health has been quite clear that work on a full-time culture in hospitals will continue as in recent years. But the biggest challenge of part-time is not in hospitals, it's in the municipalities. 74 pst. part-time jobs of care and care workers. The average setting size is 63 pst. Municipalities have a big and important task. They need to take better care of the professional and human resources they have in their employees. Then the grips that our government has taken are incredibly important. Working more in teams, multi-disciplinary, local authorities, will create opportunities for greater full-time culture. And then you have to have a more modern setting for the rotation and working hours. You have to open up more so that employees who want to do so – and there are many of them – can work in tournaments that help you increase job rates. Finally, this with practice places: the representative Andersen said that having people in practice is a job. Yeah, but you're the world for a enriching job! Students are an enrichment in the health sector, they come in with new knowledge and curiosity, and they make a big contribution in departments, both in hospitals and in care and care. I think they all, the vast majority of nurses in the municipalities want to facilitate more practice places. So it's this with decentralised hospital structure. Yes, it is very important for practical areas. This is precisely why it is so important that through the National Health and Hospital Plan, we have ensured a decentralised hospital structure across the country, and in particular because the patient course is more than ever in interaction between municipalities and health businesses. Then, of course, we need hospitals in many places, so that we can get these practical learning situations where we work together between hospitals and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3683	I have to use the opportunity to remind the representative Karin Andersen that a majority at Stortinget wants new welfare municipalities, which make them have the ability to have practical places. It's actually one of the important reasons why we need a new municipal structure – to create that sustainability. Yes, having apprenticeships and places of practice takes time, and it takes resources. Some municipalities can organize it very well, others can't do it. For the drug field, we have adopted an escalating plan for the next five years of 2.4 billion. kr, and SEK 1,5 br. kr is earmarked for the municipal sector. There is ample opportunity here to create both practical places and to have an all-roundness in the practice areas associated with that activity. In the field of mental health, we have decided that all municipalities should have community psychologists from 2020, and we are making an effort to create both primary health teams and increased capacity for prevention and public health – including there. There's plenty of opportunity to create those places. Welfare technology is also important, both to bring nurses into education and to create places of practice related to the new technology we are facing, including in emergency medicine and medical care – a neglected area in many municipalities – where the municipalities as owners of the 112 intercommunal medical services are struggling with recruiting, renewing them technologically and getting to full-time workplaces. There is a lot to tackle in the welfare of municipalities. There is a great need for municipalities to become more robust to deal with the growing challenges they face.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3690	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3704	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3711	The representative proposal we are examining now concerns the safe storage of patient information, but it is probably more so that the proposal is now largely concerned with where these sensitive documents should be physically stored and who should actually be able to store them. The draft representative shall submit the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to initiate an investigation into the consequences of breaking the recommendations in NOU 2006:5 by giving a private market operator responsibility for storing sensitive patient information.’ However, in the response of the Council of State to the Committee, it is clear that in this context the government is not talking about the responsibility of private actors to store this sensitive information, but that it is the National Archives that have been given that task. At the same time, several alternative locations are considered for the construction of a depot building. The thinning is one option, as is the rent from private people. Neither the Personal Information Act nor the Health Personnel Act prevent the National Archives from agreeing with the private on the rental of premises for the preservation of archival material. Of course, this will be both about where it is right to build such a depot and what the costs will be. This is an ongoing assessment work that will be submitted to the Stortinget during 2016. Through the treatment, it has been found that several batches do not wish to await this evaluation. Government parties believe that a thorough assessment, especially with a socio-economic focus, is important and appropriate. This is also supported by the two cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left. I would therefore like to point out that the four parties agree on the Norwegian Health Archives and the Swedish Archiving Agency's common depot: ‘The majority are concerned about getting a good solution for a health archive and indicate that the government will put an archive digitisation facility on Tynset. The majority indicate that Norwegian health archives should digitise patient records as far as possible and that digitisation will lead to increased access to documents. The majority further point out that digitisation will reduce the need for storage space for paper archives and that skills jobs related to digitisation will become increasingly important in the coming years. The majority therefore consider it important that jobs related to processing, office building and administration should be added to Tynset. The majority believe that a solution for the deposit and location of paper documents should be resolved in the most cost-effective way possible and that the Ministry of Culture is now examining several solutions. The majority refers to the treatment by the Health and Care Committee of Document 8:79 S Representative Proposals for the safe storage of patient information and underlines that this comment reflects a unified position. [[2015-2016]] The majority look forward to an appropriate return of the government by the end of 2016 to the Storting once ongoing investigations have been carried out and the decision-making basis is considered sufficient.» In summary, this clearly shows that the government parties and the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left agree that the digital health archive is going to Tynset, as has been said before. For Tynset's sake, I hope this is a happy day. The proposal of the four cooperation parties will ensure that Tynset has many new jobs and also important skills jobs. In conclusion, I would like to say that I assume that the parties that have aberrant vision are going to explain this to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3738	This representative proposal, promoted by three representatives from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, addresses important fundamental issues related to the storage of privacy-sensitive material, i.e.: the paper-based health records, including: older patient records are present. The background to this proposal is that the Ministry of Culture of Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 recommended opening a private archive storage solution through the rental of privately owned premises. Before the government enters into any lease with a private operator for the storage of this archive-worthy material, it is important, in the opinion of the proposers, that a thorough assessment be made of the consequences of giving this responsibility to a private limited liability company. It's been about ten years since NOU 2006:5, Norwegian health records – the last stop to the patient records, was handed over to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The NOU states that the main task of the Norwegian health archive — the depository function itself — will be to take care of ‘older, conservation-worthy patient archives’ from the specialist health service and to manage them for later use for research and other documentation purposes. The NOU also recommends that the Norwegian health archive be established by the state and operated under state control on the assumption. The investigation strongly recommends that the Norwegian health archive be located together in one geographical location and operated by the State. I share the opinion of the proposers that managing national health information in a predictable, reliable and secure way in the future is an important societal task. I would like to refer to the response of the Council of State Bent Höie to the Committee, where he states that the Ministry has not decided whether to locate permanent storage of paper archives on Tynset in connection with the establishment of the archive project there, or whether to find other solutions. The Council of State further states that neither the Personal Information Act nor the Health Register Act prevent the Riksarchiver from agreeing with the private landlord on the rental of premises for the preservation of archive material. The background to the different decisions on the archives was the state acquisition of hospitals in 2002. With this, the State assumed responsibility for all the archive material collected among several owners – both state, county, municipal and private. Proposals for concrete solutions for the storage of health archives were promoted in the Notifier. St. 7 for 2012–2013, the archive message, which came under the red-green government and was adopted in Stortinget. In the message, it was proposed to establish the Norwegian health archive and the Health archive register, and the government decided that the Norwegian health archive should be established in line with the proposals of the previously mentioned NOU in 2006, which included it. a clear recommendation was made for the geographical aggregation of all activities in one location. The health archive was located in the municipality of Tynset during the treatment in Stortingen of the archival message, and it was assumed that a separate building should be included for the purpose. I have noticed to the State Council Bent Höie's observation that any storage of sensitive personal data by external private landlord does not imply that the State waives responsibility for the storage. I think he's right in that kind of formality, but we believe that the scope of the matter, the large volume and the degree of sensitivity, suggest that the government should initiate an investigation into how best to ensure the safe storage and storage of sensitive patient information. The focus here also needs to be on challenges that may arise in terms of renting by private actors, including: that there may be less predictability with regard to the length of the rental relationship and that any new owner may have other plans for the rented premises. The Labour Party is committed to what has become a majority position, happy enough, where Stortinget asks the government to follow up the work of the Norwegian Health Archives and the realisation of depot buildings at Tynset, as well as to initiate an investigation on how best to ensure the retention/storage of sensitive patient information, including with a focus on challenges that may arise from possible cooperation with private actors, and also cooperation on the storage of this information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3757	The patient records to be stored in the Norwegian health records contain sensitive data and much sought-after and sensitive information, patient information that may subsequently provide us with important health information — if the information is used correctly, and not least if it is properly maintained. Following the NOU mentioned earlier, from 2006, it is recommended that ‘Norwegian health records should be established by the State and operated under State control’. When the Christian People's Party now supports the proposals for Decisions I and II, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are saying that this is done in the light of the comments of the majority of the Finance Committee in relation to the revised national budget. When we have that comment, it's because in the investigation you're going to have under II, we don't just want to include whether it's private or public, but we also want to include what's cost-effective. I'm not reading that note again, because it's been read here once before. We believe it is important that jobs related to the administration, office building and proceedings should be added to Tynset. At the same time, we know that there have been an incredible amount of sums about what the depot building will cost. There have been different sums, and that's why we think we need to get everything on the table. Suitable or inappropriate land has been mentioned, and other locations are mentioned. Now the Christian People's Party believes that all this must be put on the table, along with what is cost-effective. We have to look at whether it is cost-effective when the number of shelf meters now drops due to more digitisation, when the area described is going down, when a calculates transport into it, and one may have to calculate the price of rental – not for 20 years, but for much longer time. Therefore, the Christian People's Party hopes that we can get this on the table and make a decision this fall. The Christian People's Party wants and hopes that we can land on the Tynset if it's most cost-effective. Then all of this has to be part of the investigation. From the Christian People's Party, we believe that it can be completely possible. The Christian People's Party recommends the Committee's proposals for Decisions I and II, which we are behind, but they are thus affected by the comment in the vote on the RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3772	Patient information is sensitive and strictly silent. In my neighborhood, we have a hospital called Sanderud Hospital. There is patient information not only from the last century, but also from the centuries before, that is from the 1800s, before the Union resolution. And that's not the situation just at Sanderud Hospital, it's the situation in hospitals around the whole of Norway. It's a huge material lying there, and we've seen together that there's a need to systematize, archive and process in a proper way. That is why we have this case and the basis for the NOU that came in 2006. Across party boundaries, it concluded – and it has been concluded in previous treatments at Stortinget – that this is something we need, because we need to process that information properly. So we know that this material is also a huge knowledge bank both for research and for further health-related work. It's where we're standing, completely assembled. When we read that NOU, it is clear on one more thing, and it is that the health archive should be under state control, and that the digitisation unit and the depository should be co-located – that they should be in the same place and that they belong naturally together. The reason was that the previous government presented its archive message. They concluded that it was going to be one place, and they concluded that it was going to be localized to Tynset. Some of the reason why they concluded with Tynset was that there's a local hospital there, it's an environment. At the same time, the location of such jobs could create major ring-effects both for the Mountain region on the Hedmark side, the Østerdalen, and for the South-Tronde layer. A location on Tynset, in addition to solving a major national need, will be able to produce major ring-effects. As a councillor, I had the opportunity to travel to Tynset and bring the good news that it was set of 85 million. kr to start that project. Everything was ready for construction, everything was in place, and it was a good day. We did this across the board – both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. But unfortunately, in the weeks after the government change, you needed money, that's what happens. Things are going very fast, and the surprise was very great when you suddenly stopped that project, which was so well thought of. And now we're here. We've spent three years discussing what's the wise solution in the future, and there's been a lot of different answers. That's why the setting that's here now is very positive, because here we're really back where we were in 2013: you want a co-location and a realization of the depot on Tynset. That is what is stated in Decision I, and it was also what was said in the NOU in 2006, because it is the best solution. If you think about it a little bit practical, it's a little bit unwise, for example. from the University Hospital in Tromsø first, fly information down to Røros to be transported to Tynset and digitised there to possibly be driven by car up to e.g. Trondheim. That's not a wise way to solve it. Of course – when you're going to transport information from all over the country to a unit on Tynset, it's unnatural that you don't also archive that material in the same place. And that's what's grounded all the way. Erna Solberg said in November 2013 that this was not a discussion about location, one had only to go a new round of quality assurance. The same thing was said by State Council Bent Höie in Østlandingen in 2013 – i.e. this was not related to location. And Siv Jensen said the same thing in 2014. Then it's important that we now, across the board, create peace around the community, because that's the good, professional solution. I understand that there may be different political interests, that you want jobs elsewhere, etc., but here it's been a green thread all the way. The best solution is joint localisation. I also understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left had to go in with a remark last round – they were probably afraid of budgetary consequences, that's how it is to be a support party – but I hope that once you've gone that round, you get back to what's in Decision I here, because it's always been the good and professional solution. Then we can finally compete to take credit for it built, because I hope that all parties finally support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3791	Now it's said a lot about the background of the matter we're talking about today. But I want to start with the hospital reform in 2002, which created a clearer need to archive patient records and collect them. The NOU from 2006 says something about it. The red-green government set with all its possibilities and all its powers during its period of government. It's part of the story that it didn't come to a grant until almost after one had had a choice and it put in place a new government. The money never came into place, and one had many years to put the spade in the earth if one would. Looking from the outside, this is a little carousel in the bureaucracy. Today, the Minister of Health is sitting in the Chamber, because we are discussing the safe storage of patient records, and that belongs to the Ministry of Health and the Health and Care Committee at Stortinget. Then it is the Ministry of Culture that is responsible for archives and that also has a ownership of the matter, while it is currently the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that deals with the matter on behalf of the government because the Minister of Culture is involved in the matter. So there are significant implications in the matter. I want to make it clear that we have arrived today that we are talking about two construction projects, which have not been clarified so far. The archival building for digitisation is now fully developed to localise and build Tynset – a significant investment in construction, jobs and competences for the entire Mountain region. It is also important for the axis between Trondheim and Hamar, because NTNU in Trondheim is to start an archive training from the autumn, while Health South-East has its administration at Hamar – Norway’s largest health administration there. Between here is Thinset, like a sensible place to have a location for health information, especially for digitizing a lot of the materials we're talking about here. That's what's going to be the big job here. What we are talking about today, to which the proposal for I is limited, is the depot building that will handle the storage of the paper-based documents that we are going to manage further. Technological developments both in the digitisation of papers and in the digitisation of patient records have led us to deal with a much smaller amount of paper in the future. We need to handle this more and more digitally. Thank you so much for that! It makes the availability of documents better, but of course it has to be done in a safe way. The Financial Committee's position on the revised National Budget presents a joint remark by the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In all matters in Stortinget, we discuss making things as cost-effective as possible. The round we've had now is talking in again Tynset as an opportunity for the depot building that we've experienced has got a place in a mountain hall in Trondheim to a greater and greater extent. Now we have more of a discussion about whether it is possible to create and develop a smaller version of the depot building. It's going to be a smaller version anyway. What was for the 2013 project is far too big for all purposes. Then we are left with the Tynset and the mountain system in Mo. In both cases, it's about a district. The Swedish Archives Agency has its central depot in Mo. If it is more cost-effective and professionally sound to put it there, we will have to discuss it. These are the options that the government is now going to explore. Then I'll say... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3813	I'll first say I end up with 100 pst. to the post of the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health has clarified the conditions regarding the safe storage of patient information. It was a completely necessary clarification to get, not only because there was uncertainty about the location, but for the principal reasons that several have been in. The professional basis for this case has been investigated for very many years, and there has been a very large consensus on that. It's not right, as the representative Kjeseth says, that there was no money in the budget for this. This was done in the 2014 budget. The problem was that that money was removed by this government and the cooperation partners in the first budgetary agreement. So that money was there, the assumptions were there, and the surprise was great. But I have been very happy since this setting came, because now there is a majority at Stortinget that clearly says that the government will follow up the work on Norwegian health records and realize the depot building on Tynset. That is what the proposal for a decision says, and it must be believed that that is what it says. It's important to get some clarity on this right now. One thing is that, professionally, there has never been any doubt that the overall solution is the one that all the scientific institutes recommend. The second is that this is a project that several people have been involved in has very good ringing effects. I also want to add that the level of education in that part of Hedmark is very high. This is an area of high competence that is also capable of accepting highly skilled jobs, and a specialised education has been started in Trondheim. So here all the pieces were in place, and it was considered a very suitable localization. It's clear you can discuss, and of course you have to do that, if there's anything about the size of the building and the relationships around it. But I hope now that those who are behind this proposal today really do, and that we do not now get new rounds of games. I don't think this community and Tynset deserve that. I think I would like to remind you that the Tynset municipality has spent over 30 million dollars. NOK in order to receive this building. It is quite a lot for a small municipality that has done a very good job of getting this in touch with the authorities, where both the trade unions and the authorities have been positive about it. I think there have been enough political games around this case, and I hope we can now get together on this proposal, and that we can get this matter established and realized. It is very good with the digitalisation unit that comes to Tynset – everyone is happy – but for the project it is also important to follow up the technical advice, that this should be combined because it is the best solution, also based on the big, important task to solve. I also believe that the majority of people have to pay attention to when they are going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3830	Initially, I would like to agree with the proposers that managing national health information in a reliable and safe manner is a very important societal task. As the members of the Committee from the Central Party, the Right and the Advance Party pointed out in the vote, the government has briefed the Stortinget on the state of play of the government's work on the construction of the Norwegian health archive in the context of the revised national budget. The government has informed us that we will return to Stortinget on this matter by the end of 2016 when the investigations have been carried out and the decision-making basis is considered sufficient. The review of the budget today and the position of the Financial Committee will be part of the further work. I am therefore pleased to see that the Financial Committee's majority in the Inner East. 400 S for 2015–2016 are committed to finding a good solution for the health archive. I will allow myself to comment on some of the comments in the position of the Health and Care Committee. The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that the 2006 public investigation recommends that Norwegian health archives be collected in one place. I believe that it can be discussed whether the sample's recommendation on location was so unambiguous. In any case, the NOU has created a completely different digital reality for the work in Norwegian health archives than is the case today – a lot has happened on the technology front in the last ten years. In the 2006 study, the digitisation of journals to be used in health research was considered a possible ‘extended service offer on a mission basis’. What was then a hopeful idea of what could become possible is today reality. Norwegian health archives shall be built in accordance with the provisions of the Health Archives Regulation, as laid down in March of this year. The Health Archives Regulation has taken account of technological developments since the NOU came ten years ago. Norwegian health archives will receive about 100,000 shelving metres of paper-based archives from specialist health services in the next decades. In addition, existing and future digitally generated material is added. Of the 100,000 shelf meters, everything shall be digitised as far as possible. Norwegian health archive will be a complete digital archive depot. Only approx. 12,000 of these shelving meters, mainly older patient archives, shall remain in physical form after digitisation. The remainder shall be digitised and discarded. Thus, there will be no need for large areas for the storage of physical archive material. The organisation of health research will take place digitally. The complete digital depot for Norwegian health archives will be established at Tynset, where this work will take place. I note the Committee's recommendation to look at the challenges that may arise in the context of cooperation with private actors. Any decision to re-examine this is, in my view, unnecessary. But the government will of course follow up the decisions of Stortinget about Norwegian health records. In this context, it will be important for the realisation of Norwegian health archives that we, as policy makers, take into account both technological development and our political responsibility for the best possible use of Community money. It involves a critical look at the ‘truths of yesterday’ and avoiding the fact that decisions on any new investigation actually involve the outsourcing of Norwegian health records. I believe – as the majority of the Committee on Budgets also states in the vote on the revised national budget – that a solution for the deposit and location of paper documents should be resolved in the most cost-effective way possible. It is implicit in this that the patient information should, of course, be stored safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3860	The majority today argue that the deposit facility for sensitive paper-based health archives should be added to Tynset, along with the other functions of the Norwegian health archive. This is, as I said earlier, in line with the recommendation in the 2006 investigation, which was taken as a basis for the archival announcement made by the government of Stoltenberg II. As Hedmark representative, of course, I am pleased that there is now a majority in favour of such a solution, and I would like to ask the Council of State more specifically: how will we now work on the decision that the Stortinget is making today, and when can we expect the construction to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3865	As I explained in my article, the government will now discuss this further, and it will be submitted by the end of 2016. The government will then return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way — once the ongoing investigation has been carried out, and we have a sufficient basis for decision-making. I would like to underline what the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left also said, that the decision taken here today must be seen in the context of the comments made by a majority of the Finance Committee in the vote on the revised budget, where the government has also explained the status of the work on setting up the archive. But there is no doubt that the digital health archive, with all the jobs associated with it, will be located on Thinset. It's a good solution, and it's a solution that the government is working to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3870	When the Council of State says that he will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, can we expect that there will be funds for construction in the state budget? Is that where we can expect it, or is it as a matter of our own?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3875	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has been both a poaching representative and a government council so long that he knows what the answer to that question is. What's going on in the state budget, he won't get any answers until someone comes to the state budget. What is important is that we also ensure a good basis for decision-making. That was the unfortunate thing in this case – and what history has often taught us – is that one tried on political shortcuts, as the red-green government did, namely to grant money before it was a decision-making basis. In reality, this meant a detour to the objective of establishing a health archive. That's the situation. Political shortcuts in these kinds of cases are not reasonable. This is largely due to a lack of a sufficient basis for decision-making. It also did not have the red-green government when one had a proposal for a start-up grant for something that was not determined.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3882	The former representative of the Magnificent Harald Ellefsen from the Right is the reason why Linda Hofstad Helleland declared himself inhabilitated. There is no doubt that the Right in Trondheim, with Harald Ellefsen at the head, has had a very active role in this and wanted to get a rematch as we left the government offices and the Right went in. I deeply disagree that there was an incomplete basis for decision-making. It was a desire for a different location. It's the nature of politics – and then you needed money. But today, the Stortinget takes a decision that says: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the work on Norwegian health archives and the realization of depot buildings on Tynset.’ It's a decision. Does the Council agree that a decision is quite different from a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3894	Firstly, the story from the representative that people should have been very active in order to get this case exposed or changed, is not correct. What's right is that the government is looking for different solutions to realize a health archive. There have never been questions from this government about whether the digital health archive should be located on Tynset, we have said that from day one, but we also need a sufficient basis for decision to ensure that we use the community's resources in a sensible way. On the specific issue, I would like to say that the majority of the Committee on Finance says that they refer to the examination by the Health and Welfare Committee of the proposal for a representative on the safe storage of patient information, and stress that this comment, i.e. the comment made by the Committee on Finance, expresses a united position. It is clear that the government will return to the Storting in 2016 in an appropriate manner once the ongoing investigations have been carried out and there is a sufficient basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3901	State Council Höie has also been at Stortinget for so many years that he very well knows the difference in a decision made here in plenary, and a written comment, called comment, in a committee vote. There will be no other adoption on the health archive tomorrow. This is a comment from the members of the Financial Committee. But is there a new practice proposed by the government that it should not follow the decisions taken in the Storting? There is a very clear decision here, and there is no doubt about what it says. This is to follow-up the work on – and the realization of – deposit building on Tynset. Does the Council of State think that that decision has no value?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3906	That decision has value, and that is why I also said in my speech that the government's further work on this will be based both on the decision taken today and on the position of the Finance Committee. Of course, when we are going to interpret what the majority means by the decision taken today, we will also focus on what the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left recently said in the Chamber. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum also knows very well that when someone is going to interpret the meaning of the decision Stortinget does, he must also listen to what the representatives behind the decision say, and it will be emphasised in our follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3911	I think I can assure the Council of State that it is possible to spend money both prudently and rationally on Tynset – in a solution that can be found there. It's a little hard to hear the story here today, because it would have been quite possible to realize this. You could have run the process in a different way – if you wanted to. The government didn't want that. Having a political desire to add such an establishment to Tynset must be legitimate. The Council of State can't mean anything else. Then you can interpret it as a political wish even when you don't. I want to go back to what is proposed today, because the proposal is clear, and there are many parties behind it. The wording is clear, namely that the government will ‘follow up the work of the Norwegian health archives and the realization of depot buildings on Tynset’. Is there any doubt about the content of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3920	As I have recently replied, when one is going to continue to work on this in order to obtain a sufficient basis for decision – it is important to have in these cases – a look at both the decision today, the submissions held by parties behind the decision, and not least the majority comment in the Financial Committee’s position on this matter. Then, in 2016, one will come back with an appropriate decision-making basis when the investigation is carried out. But let there be no doubt: it is a political wish of this government that the digital health archive should be located on Tynset. It is linked to these jobs — the skills workplaces — and it is a sensible location. But it's also important that there be some of it, and part of that is going to be something of it, is to have a good basis for making the decision and making reasonable choices that are realizable, so that it becomes not just an election vow, but a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3927	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3933	We are constantly discussing policy decisions, and we have been involved in them in many ways, from local government to county councils and to big business. It is that a decision is valid until a new decision is taken, and decisions are taken evenly. To ask questions about the validity of a decision: a Document 8 proposal is neither an investment matter nor a construction matter, but there is a significant intention in what we are saying here today, and the desire for thinness is sincere. Now I have to talk on behalf of the Left – but I also expect this to apply to the Christian People's Party. About yesterday's solution and plus/minus one billion kroner, as it was estimated: you might be happy to realize – if possible – what you need half a billion dollars. Nothing is better than that. Although yesterday's solution is not tomorrow's, it's possible to realize both the digital health archive and the depot built on Tynset, but not necessarily with yesterday's solution, because it's too big and too expensive. Some people ask questions about basic conditions and other things – it is not our case to go into. That is why I believe that the proposal on the table today provides the flexibility needed to achieve a comprehensive solution to Mr Tynset. The previous preliminary project would be difficult to achieve both within the economic framework and on the basis of building conditions. This is important in order to maintain a comprehensive solution until we reach an investment decision in a budgetary matter here in the Grand Duchy. Then it's briefed that there's an investigation going on. We look forward to that, and we also need to respect that – that we do not interfere too much with the investigation that the government is doing and will continue beyond the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3942	There can be no doubt as to what kind of decision the Stortinget takes today. The majority in this House have voted for the two proposals that underpin what we are going to adopt today. I think it's very strange to hear the council talking about that there's someone here taking shortcuts. What the proposers have done, and the majority say, is that we should build on what was in the archive message and the proposals that were there, which came in 2012. There is nothing in the answer that the Council of State gives to the Committee on this matter, asking questions about it – neither by choosing the Tynset and the common location, nor by making it so much more costly to build on Tynset. If it turns out – against all assumption – that there should be some assumptions on the cost side that are completely outside of all proportions, then the government council will have to come back to the Stortinget with it, but the decision today, which is based on the 2006 NOU and the archive message that was submitted just before the government change, and the money that was granted for it, has not asked any questions at all in the response he gave to the committee, and I don't think he has done this either. So we in the Labour Party are going to assume, and I also think the majority are going to assume, that the Council of State is taking seriously what the Storing decides today, and is going to follow it up in a proper and tidy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3949	Now I've been at Stortinget for almost eleven years, and part of that time also as the Council of State. What we have seen in this debate is a slightly new parliamentary exercise, even on the part of a Council of State, by one trying in a way to explain the value of the decision taken today by Stortinget, with a comment in a committee position. There is no doubt that a decision is a decision and a comment – they have a completely different status. Any State Council knows that in a note there is a little room for interpretation, while a decision has to be followed up. That's it, and that's our management system. But it is quite clear that after it became clear to the Right and to the Advance Party that it would become a majority in order to locate the depot on Tynset as well, the negotiations on the revised national budget tried to get a kind of valve there. Although I'm very sorry about that valve, we're now at least a little bit closer to the goal – to build a national health archive on Tynset – than we were three months ago. It was a very big step back when it became a government change. Then all of a sudden everything was played. Then there were three steps forward when the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV were united in the document 8 we now have to deal with. And then there was one step back again when we saw the comment the next day. But we're at least two steps closer. So we go back and forth a little bit. I hope that the Council of State now puts the prestige and former party-tactical considerations aside – the environment in Trondheim Right was very concerned about getting it located there – and that one sees that we now need to get a solution to this matter, that it is good for the country to get a national health archive, that it is wise to locate both the archive, the paper material and the digitisation unit in the same place, and that it is a good solution. I hope that one can also see the enormous ring-effects this is going to have for the North-East valley, the South-Trøndelag and the entire Mountain region. This is a matter that solves a national problem, but at the same time creates tremendous ring-effects in an area that has a high growth potential, which such a type of building and such kind of activity is going to contribute further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3960	I record that at least in his first post the representative Schlagsvold Vedum might not have been as loud and clumsy as he used to be. That might mean that the government pointed to some of the things that might be the case when it comes to how things happened, and how it came in just before the government change and right after the election. At least there's no doubt that everyone here is very much in agreement that the digital health archive is going to Tynset. But I note that especially the Workers' Party and the Center Party do not take into account that something has happened since 2006, when the NOU arrived, and since the archive message came in 2012. This means that it had been working with quite a long time before it was presented, and that means that there has been a technological development, which means that the situation is a little different than it was in 2006, when it came to these conclusions, which Battle Violence Vedum chooses to include one part of, and not as much of the whole. I refer to the comments from the government parties in that respect. The point is that the government has started a job and is doing a job to put the actual conditions into place. Several of the representatives have also been concerned that we need to know what the consequences are, and that is why we are doing this investigation, which is under way, and with which the government says it will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way during 2016. Then I want to say that I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen that Tynset has a very competent workforce. They've arranged to get the health archive to Tynset. We're also concerned about that, and that's why you agree that you want to add the digital health archive to Tynset. Then you're going to look at functionality, and what's going to be there, when the investigation is done. I also want to say that I think it is special that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV are very sceptical that private people should be allowed to own a building where the public should rent. The important thing is to ensure that the content is properly maintained, to ensure the safety and safety of patients and to ensure that this information does not come out in the wrong way. I think it's completely possible to have private people renting out the premises, but of course it's the ones who'll be responsible for ensuring this, and they'll do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3973	There have been many attempts at history writing here today. Some have said that the starting point was bad. It wasn't. It was professional consensus. There was full professional agreement that this should be gathered, and that it should be located on Tynset. There was even political agreement on that. Even the current Minister of Health, who had become Minister of Health, said in November 2014: ‘The government’s decision to postpone the project until 2015 is not linked to location’. It must have meant that the minister had a decision-making basis that made him say it. I assumed that he knew what he was talking about. We knew that too, and we've wanted it all along. That is why I am pleased with the proposal that will be adopted here now. I interpret it as such a decision must be interpreted in Stortinget, that it means what it says. I must admit that I am a little worried about the posts that have been held by the Christian People's Party and the Left. Because in this case, unfortunately, the experience of being tricked has been present for a very long time. It is not about the SV or the Centre Party or the Workers' Party, it is about a community that, through close cooperation with the authorities over many years, has facilitated an important national effort – spent a lot of money, invested working time on it, received support. And then we have, like, been given a round of penalties on a round of penalties. That is why I hope that we, who are in agreement on this now, can agree on it and that we can get this into port. Because it will be a good project that the people behind it can be proud of. There is something Norway needs, and the location will also trigger very much positive as there will be political honor for the one who cuts the string. And I would like it to be Prime Minister Bent Höie! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3984	The councils have not come this far – yet! Social violence Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3989	That was a raw SV representative, so congratulations on that, Höie! I don't know if it's a compliment in the Right Circle to be proclaimed Prime Minister by an SV, but he'll have to evaluate it for himself. I have a short comment, and it's for Bård Hoksrud. First of all, I'm grateful that he thinks I'm pretty cool, that's nice. Secondly, however, with State versus private: we have a very practical relationship with it in many contexts. But in the NOU it says it should be under state control. And then we have to remember one more thing: what's the rental market in places like the Tynset for private construction? If you're busy using smaller places as a location for large state businesses, it's much more natural that it's state-owned, because it's much more risky to build big buildings there for a private operator than it is to do it in the Trondheim center. So for us who want to use the whole country, it's very important that you also see that using the state as a builder will be a prerequisite for just building the buildings, and that it's much more vulnerable to a place like Thinset if it's going to be in private direction...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e3996	The number is out. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4012	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 14–26 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4161	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 14–26.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4175	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4181	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4188	A total of 49 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Eirin Sund, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, on the proposals No. 10-13, by Eirin Sund, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 14 and 15, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 16-19, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Left Party proposals No. 20-22, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, 23-25, by André N. Skjelstad, on behalf of the Left and the Left Party, proposal No. 26, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party, proposals No. 27-47, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 48, by André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 50, from Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party The President noted that proposal No. 49, from the left, was not taken up. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 46, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the legislation and to ensure that reception operations are mainly operated by municipalities and non-governmental organisations.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether and how labour migration to Norway can be reduced during periods when very many refugees are to be integrated into the Norwegian labour market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4244	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 29–45, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the proposals in NOU 2011:14 Better integration – Objectives, strategies, actions, including a 10-year effort to get more people to work.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the legislation to ensure that several asylum seekers can work legally and support themselves.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children under school age in reception of asylum are entitled to kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a project with simplified procedure in clear approval cases based on proposals from the Norwegian asylum seeker organisation [[NOAS]] Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the staffing of asylum recipients through a four- to five-year escalation plan, in line with proposals in the Bergecommission and Lidén, for a minimum staffing of one year's work per child, that is to say about one employee per three children at any time per day, where at least half of them have child-care skills according to the same definition as in the care centres.’ [[2011]] [[2013]] Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to strengthen the mechanism and to lower the number of clients a guardian can have.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the voluntary sector, is asked to set up its own father schemes for young asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to revise the introduction system in order to make it more individualised and so that all basic qualification can be included in the introduction programme.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks to disconnect mentors from business earlier into the introduction programme.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop cooperation with the reintroduction industry, in particular as regards language and work.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a new grant scheme with development funds to strengthen the activities of municipalities in the introduction programme and training of Norwegian and community knowledge.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that universities and colleges develop specific arrangements to assist qualified immigrants quickly so that they can use their education in Norway, for example by linking Norwegian training more closely to the training already provided by the person. Decentralised study services need to be developed and implemented locally.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with universities, colleges and other communities of excellence, is asked to develop a larger programme of establishment knowledge/training as part of the introduction system and as further training. It is necessary to establish a separate action plan for establishing activities among immigrants, including appropriate financial instruments for entrepreneurs.’.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked to enter into agreements with non-governmental organisations to ensure more refugee guides. In particular, this applies to single minors who need stable guides over a long period of time.’» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the success criteria for multicultural recruitment in public and private enterprises.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a rapid track system for pre-authorised enterprises which may receive grants for training, work and language training for refugees.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks it to set up recruitment schemes in the university and higher education sectors for refugees with higher qualifications.’ Proposal No. 45: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that universities and colleges can offer additional places of study to residents who need it in order to benefit from their original education.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4350	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the number of minority counsellors in schools.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4366	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the consequences of removing the requirement to conduct an asylum interview before a temporary work permit can be granted before any change enters into force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4380	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 25, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider introducing quality criteria for language training in the introduction programme.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the establishment by institutions, organisations, the professional community, the business community and others of places of practice for refugees.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4403	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up several pilot projects with alternative methods of language training for adult immigrants.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–22, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that local government expenditure is covered by 100 pst. through increased integration grants.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the acquisition of housing modules to ensure housing for all residents. The housing modules should preferably be established in a smaller number of each location. The housing modules put into service must be easily movable and used as student residences in retrospect.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that binding agreements are concluded with the voluntary sector for systematic cooperation on measures for the good integration into the community of residents of asylum recipients, including, for example, coordinating language training from voluntary, activity offers for both adults and children, and refugee guides.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4447	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-19, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the requirement for a clear identity for a temporary work permit be placed at the level of today’s asylum application.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that asylum applications are processed substantially more quickly and that asylum seekers are most likely to be accommodated.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more rapid handling of family reunification matters.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a central unit in the field of child protection responsible for following up uninhabited children who are victims or potential victims of trafficking in human beings and to assist local child protection offices with the follow-up of children who are victims or potential victims of trafficking in human beings.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4480	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess a system in which the IMF makes direct agreements with public high schools for the integration of young refugees, for reduced waiting time in asylum recipients and rapid integration.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that UDI interviews and to process applications for them with a high probability of staying, faster, so that the available capacity of the municipalities can be used.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4503	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to liquidate the cash support.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4518	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to actively work to increase the proportion of employees with a minority background in public institutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4534	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 13, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish several action areas and to cooperate with, inter alia, the management industry in practical qualification and work training.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that public sector employees, including Nav, have good multicultural competence.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4557	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to reintroduce up to 250 hours of Norwegian training for asylum seekers in receipt.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased hours of Norwegian training in the reception of asylum for persons waiting for asylum decisions. Voluntary organisations need increased support to organise additional Norwegian training.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the functioning of the watch and interpretation service and has sufficient capacity on arrival.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the Bank’s loan and grant schemes for disadvantaged people.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to finance data collection at the Norwegian Knowledge Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress in order to provide data bases on the newly arrived refugees.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to conclude long-term agreements with the voluntary sector for integration work and to encourage local authorities to enter into agreements locally.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big message on the fight against social dumping and crime at work, in view of the reinforced challenges that may arise when a high number of refugees are to be integrated into the labour market.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to finance the Plan of Action against radicalisation and violent extremism.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up funding to ensure long-term funding for both preventive measures against radicalisation and extremism, as well as for various exit measures.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4616	There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the introduction of 50 hours of culture and social knowledge is in addition to Norwegian training and does not result in a reduction in the number of hours of Norwegian training.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4713	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on VIII and XI. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President makes it clear that this is a very sharp vote. The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast against and 47 votes in favour of the Committee's voting rights for VIII and XI. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.50.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4724	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4729	President, can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4734	So let's do the voting again. The roll-call boards showed that 52 votes were cast against and 48 votes in favour of the Committee's voting rights for VIII and XI. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.51.36]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4743	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of IV and X. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4746	President, can you repeat this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4751	It is not right that the Labour Party should vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4756	President, I think we have to re-take the Roman numerals, because most of them have to be unanimous. There is a problem in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4761	So let's do the voting again. A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on IV, VIII, X and XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4770	Alternatively, between the position of the Committee on IX and proposal No. 50, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the possibility of withdrawing financial support for religious communities which: 1. encourages the violation of Norwegian criminal law; 2. receives foreign funding from countries that violate fundamental human rights. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the vote. The voting boards showed that, in the case of alternative voting between the Committee's position on IX and the proposal by the Christian People's Party, 59 votes were cast and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.00.00]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4795	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4800	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4805	There are several people who have voted incorrectly, so we will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4816	The position of the Committee shall be referred to I, II, III, V, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4825	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4835	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4848	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in practice so that Norway uses the return of the Dublin Agreement as much as possible in serious cases of trafficking in human beings. Such matters in which dispatch is being effected shall be suspended and dealt with in accordance with new legislation.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4876	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to look at the possibility of a housing scheme specifically aimed at women with a refugee background who do not have access to the usual housing market.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4890	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the staffing of reception centres for asylum seekers in Norway, especially in the evenings and weekends, in order to ensure that women have adequate protection and support against gender-based violence.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an assessment of all reception centres in Norway in order to identify further needs for conversion in order to ensure women’s access to safe shelters.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for long-term training covering all forms of gender-based violence, for staff in reception centres and ordinary asylum recipients, in order to make them better equipped to intervene in a good manner.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the necessary cooperation between reception centres, local health authorities, women’s organisations, crisis centres and other relevant institutions at local and regional level and to ensure access to sexual and reproductive health services, such as contraceptives.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e4977	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I to X. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5008	During the debate, Eirin Sund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government’s budget for the next revision of the Master Tariff Agreement in 2018 will implement the wage settlement in the country so that the result will be four equivalent core tariff agreements so that there will be one main tariff agreement applicable to all employees in the State tariff area irrespective of their organisational affiliation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5321	In the course of the debate, Ruth Grung put forward three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Stortingen for better financing and organisation of practice places for community health care nurses.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national overview and an obliging escalation plan for the training of specialised nurses in the context of the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2017, to review the provision of further training for nurses, including schemes ensuring that the teaching skills of educational institutions have up-to-date knowledge and skills, as well as to assess the revision and updating of the training framework plans, in order to ensure that the training meets the needs of both primary and specialist health services.’; The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5377	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I and II. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5423	In the case of cases No. 14–26, are the second legal proceedings. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5432	Case No. 27 concerns the handling of a third legislative action and concerns the legislative decision 102, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 13 June 2016. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5443	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-16.ana.ud346e5455	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
